Title: 'Emergency' situation on India-Myanmar border: Intel inputs
New Delhi, April 3 :The Myanmar Army is set to impose emergency in its Rakhine state to launch a big operation against insurgent group, the Arakan Army, intelligence sources said.
The move can be taken any time as the Arakan Army had set up several camps comprising of about 1,000 cadres in areas across Mizoram's Lawngtalai district. These areas cut across the Kaladan multi-modal transit transport project and the insurgents posed a threat to it.
In view of Arakan Army's activities, the armies of India and Myanmar recently concluded a coordinated operation from February 17 to March 2.
Besides the Arakan Army, the operation targeted the Nationalist Socialist Council of Nagaland-Khaplang, a northeastern insurgent group notorious for attacks against theIndian Army, and having hideouts in Myanmar.
According to a defence source, over 3,000 Arakan Army cadres, in last few months, have been trained by another Myanmar insurgent group, the Kachin Independence Army, in Myanmar's Kachin area which borders China's Yunan province. Both the groups are part of a coalition of insurgent groups called the Northern Alliance, which are believed to be supported by China.
The source said that the Arakan Army is specially being trained on setting up of Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) and that the group since 2017 has increased its movement towards south Myanmar despite having their bases mostly towards the north of the country.
It is belived that the group have setup over a dozen camps across the International Border with India in Myanmar last year. While Rakhine borders Bangaladesh, the Indian border in Mizoram is not far off.
As per the intelligence input, the Arakan Army has also been planning to infiltrate into India.

Title: Myanmar rebels kidnap civilians from police base | Daily Mail Online
ByAssociated Press
Published:05:07 EDT, 11 April 2019|Updated:09:17 EDT, 11 April 2019


YANGON, Myanmar (AP) - Three people were killed and seven civilians abducted in an attack on a police installation in western Myanmar that authorities blame on the Arakan Army rebel group, media reported Thursday.
A report in the Global New Light of Myanmar newspaper said about 200 insurgents, who claim to represent the Rakhine ethnic minority in the western state of Rakhine, attacked a security police headquarters in Mrauk-U town on Tuesday night.
Rakhine is best known for a brutal counterinsurgency campaign by the military against the Muslim Rohingya minority, which caused more than 700,000 to flee to neighboring Bangladesh. But while Rohingya insurgents have been largely inactive for more than a year, the Arakan Army has been engaged in increasingly fierce fighting with government forces since late last year.
The Arakan Army, which is aligned with Rakhine's Buddhist population, seeks autonomy for the region, and is seemingly bigger and better armed and organized than its Muslim rivals.
The government declared the Arakan Army a terrorist organization after it killed 13 police officers and wounded nine in attacks on Jan. 4.
Earlier this month, the U.N. main human rights agency expressed concern about the upsurge in fighting between Myanmar's army and the Arakan Army's guerrillas, especially attacks on civilians by both sides.
Ravina Shamdasani, a spokeswoman for the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights, said that the agency had "credible reports of the killing of civilians, burning of houses, arbitrary arrests, abductions, indiscriminate fire in civilian areas, and damage to cultural property."
Thursday's report said the police base attackers abducted four women and three children and that one officer's family member was killed, while two policemen died and seven were reported missing. It said the insurgents retreated after around six hours once Myanmar soldiers arrived to reinforce the police.
Separately, the military's information office announced that 23 suspected Arakan Army members were arrested in a village as part of a sweep against the insurgent group.
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group

Title: 
Myanmar's military to extend suspension period of military action against armed groups - Xinhua | English.news.cn

YANGON, April 30 (Xinhua) -- Myanmar's military announced late Tuesday to extend the suspension period of all its military action against armed groups in five military command regions for two months, according to an announcement of the Office of the Commander-in-Chief of the Defense Services.
The suspension period was set to extend until June 30 this year, the announcement said.
The move came after the request proposed by three forces -- Kachin Independence Army (KIA), Ta'ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) and Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA), in order to support negotiations with those remaining non-ceasefire signatory armed groups to sign the Nationwide Cease Fire Accord (NCA).
During the period, all military actions will be suspended in the northern, northeastern, eastern, middle-eastern and triangle military command areas.
Myanmar's military released the announcement of its non-operation period in December last year, setting to last until April 30, 2019.
So far, 10 ethnic armed groups have signed the NCA with the government since it was initiated in October 2015 and the 21st Century Panglong Peace Conferences were held three times during the incumbent government in August 2016, May 2017 and July 2018 respectively.
There remains mainly seven Northern Alliance armed groups which have not yet signed the NCA.
Xi attends gathering marking centenary of May Fourth Movement
Xi delivers speech at opening of International Horticultural Exhibition
Xi holds talks with Lao president to promote ties
Chorus event held in Shanghai to commemorate centenary of May Fourth Movement
Scenery of Summer Palace in Beijing
China conducts joint naval exercise with Southeast Asian countries in Qingdao
Three seal pups enter "seal kindergarten" at Harbin Polarland
In pics: azalea flowers on Gaomu Mountain in E China's Zhejiang

Title: MYANMAR Rebel armies in peace talks in Shan State
Fighting between the RCSS and the SSPP has stopped in Kyaukme and Thibaw townships. It broke out last September in the Namtu district. Since the end of 2018, the two groups have clashed more than 150 times, displacing thousands of persons. Shan State is the global centre for methamphetamine production.
Naypyidaw (AsiaNews/Agencies) – Two warring armed ethnic Shan armies have started peace talks, both groups have announced.
Fighting between the Shan State Progress Party (SSPP), a separatist group, and the Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS), a nationalist group, broke out last September in Namtu, a district in the northern part of Myanmar’s most easternmost state.
Thefighting resumed after 21 December, when the Myanmar military declared a unilateral ceasefire in the region. Since then, the two groups have clashed more than 150 times,displacing thousandsof civilians.
Unlike the SSPP, the RCSS signed theNational Ceasefire Agreement(NCA) with the central government in October 2015. Since November of that year, the two armed groups have clashed in the municipalities of Hsipaw, Kyaukme and Namtu.
The SSPP has so far been able to count on the support of its allies, the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), which is fighting for the self-determination of the Ta’ang ethnic group.
According to analysts, infighting is motivated in part by a desire to control the production and sale of drugs. Located on the border with China, Shan State has become theglobal centre for methamphetamine production.
“We don’t want to fight with the RCSS because both groups are Shan,” said SSPP Lt Col Sai Su. “We have been in northern Shan for a long time ago, but the RCSS moved from the south to the north. We need to build trust and share information. Lack of communication led to the fighting.”
Myanmar’s military has offered to mediate between the two groups to reach a ceasefire, but the latter have refused noting that it is up to the Shan to resolve their differences.
Lt Col Sai Su said that after designating restricted areas, fighting has stopped in Kyaukme and Thibaw townships. Both sides agreed not to encroach on the restricted areas whilst a solution is sought through negotiations, he added.
For the SSPP, the two sides “should work together on regional development, establishment of a federal union, and building trust between our two groups to achieve our goal, which all people in Shan State expect.”
Subscribe to Asia News updates or change your preferences

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-12 21:00Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: MYANMAR Rebel armies in peace talks in Shan State
Fighting between the RCSS and the SSPP has stopped in Kyaukme and Thibaw townships. It broke out last September in the Namtu district. Since the end of 2018, the two groups have clashed more than 150 times, displacing thousands of persons. Shan State is the global centre for methamphetamine production.
Naypyidaw (AsiaNews/Agencies) – Two warring armed ethnic Shan armies have started peace talks, both groups have announced.
Fighting between the Shan State Progress Party (SSPP), a separatist group, and the Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS), a nationalist group, broke out last September in Namtu, a district in the northern part of Myanmar’s most easternmost state.
Thefighting resumed after 21 December, when the Myanmar military declared a unilateral ceasefire in the region. Since then, the two groups have clashed more than 150 times,displacing thousandsof civilians.
Unlike the SSPP, the RCSS signed theNational Ceasefire Agreement(NCA) with the central government in October 2015. Since November of that year, the two armed groups have clashed in the municipalities of Hsipaw, Kyaukme and Namtu.
The SSPP has so far been able to count on the support of its allies, the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), which is fighting for the self-determination of the Ta’ang ethnic group.
According to analysts, infighting is motivated in part by a desire to control the production and sale of drugs. Located on the border with China, Shan State has become theglobal centre for methamphetamine production.
“We don’t want to fight with the RCSS because both groups are Shan,” said SSPP Lt Col Sai Su. “We have been in northern Shan for a long time ago, but the RCSS moved from the south to the north. We need to build trust and share information. Lack of communication led to the fighting.”
Myanmar’s military has offered to mediate between the two groups to reach a ceasefire, but the latter have refused noting that it is up to the Shan to resolve their differences.
Lt Col Sai Su said that after designating restricted areas, fighting has stopped in Kyaukme and Thibaw townships. Both sides agreed not to encroach on the restricted areas whilst a solution is sought through negotiations, he added.
For the SSPP, the two sides “should work together on regional development, establishment of a federal union, and building trust between our two groups to achieve our goal, which all people in Shan State expect.”
Subscribe to Asia News updates or change your preferences

Title: Travel Restriction Issued for Myanmar-Bangladesh Border l KBS WORLD
Korean
English
Politics
Written: 2019-04-17 14:43:15/Updated: 2019-04-17 15:17:20
Photo : YONHAP News
Share
Creative[4K] BOYNEXTDOOR, TZUYU, NMIXX, LE SSERAFIM, DAY6, OH MY GIRL, Loossemble, BAEKHYUN | On the way to music bank 2409062024-09-06
2024-09-06
Good Vibes OnlyOlivia Ih on French Parenting and Multilingual Life2024-09-04
2024-09-04
K-POP NewsTWICE's Tzuyu to Release Solo Album2024-08-02
2024-08-02
KBS WORLD TV
TV Schedule
KBS WORLD
KBS WORLD Radio On-Air
RSS Service
Podcasts
Copyright ⓒ KBS. All rights reserved. No copy, distribution or use of the content (AI learning included).This website is sponsored by the Korea Communications Commission.
The Web site is optimized for viewing in Chrome, Safari, Firefox and Internet Explorer 11 and higher versions.
This website uses cookies and other technology to enhance quality of service. Continuous usage of the website will be considered as giving consent to the application of such technology and the policy of KBS.For further details >

Title: 
Myanmar's military to extend suspension period of military action against armed groups - Xinhua | English.news.cn

YANGON, April 30 (Xinhua) -- Myanmar's military announced late Tuesday to extend the suspension period of all its military action against armed groups in five military command regions for two months, according to an announcement of the Office of the Commander-in-Chief of the Defense Services.
The suspension period was set to extend until June 30 this year, the announcement said.
The move came after the request proposed by three forces -- Kachin Independence Army (KIA), Ta'ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) and Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA), in order to support negotiations with those remaining non-ceasefire signatory armed groups to sign the Nationwide Cease Fire Accord (NCA).
During the period, all military actions will be suspended in the northern, northeastern, eastern, middle-eastern and triangle military command areas.
Myanmar's military released the announcement of its non-operation period in December last year, setting to last until April 30, 2019.
So far, 10 ethnic armed groups have signed the NCA with the government since it was initiated in October 2015 and the 21st Century Panglong Peace Conferences were held three times during the incumbent government in August 2016, May 2017 and July 2018 respectively.
There remains mainly seven Northern Alliance armed groups which have not yet signed the NCA.
Xi attends gathering marking centenary of May Fourth Movement
Xi delivers speech at opening of International Horticultural Exhibition
Xi holds talks with Lao president to promote ties
Chorus event held in Shanghai to commemorate centenary of May Fourth Movement
Scenery of Summer Palace in Beijing
China conducts joint naval exercise with Southeast Asian countries in Qingdao
Three seal pups enter "seal kindergarten" at Harbin Polarland
In pics: azalea flowers on Gaomu Mountain in E China's Zhejiang

Title: Myanmar Army Overruns KIA Outposts In N. Shan State | Brunei's No.1 News Website






GENERAL INQUIRY
[email protected]

ADVERTISING
[email protected]

PRESS RELEASE
[email protected]

HOTLINE
+673 222-0178 [Office Hour]
+673 223-6740 [Fax]


The prayer times for Brunei-Muara and Temburong districts. For Tutong add 1 minute and for Belait add 3 minutes.
Imsak
: 05:01 AM
Subuh
: 05:11 AM
Syuruk
: 06:29 AM
Doha
: 06:51 AM
Zohor
: 12:32 PM
Asar
: 03:44 PM
Maghrib
: 06:32 PM
Isyak
: 07:42 PM





Home> Myanmar
Myanmar Army Overruns KIA Outposts In N. Shan State

A KIA outpost in Kachin State

April 25th, 2019  |  09:24 AM  |2050 views
YANGON

The Myanmar Army (or Tatmadaw) said Tuesday it had taken control of some Kachin Independence Army (KIA) outposts in Muse District in northern Shan State.

The Tatmadaw True News Information Team’s Brigadier-General Zaw Min Tun said the Army counter-attacked after the KIA launched assaults on military units from outposts it built near a Tatmadaw base in Muse District’s Mongpaw-Mongya. He added that several KIA outposts were occupied on Monday and Tuesday.

“[KIA troops] attacked Tatmadaw [troops] engaged in non-military activities at the base, and also built outposts. They launched sneak attacks and mine attacks on military units after Thingyan [which ended on April 17]. So, we resumed our military operations and were able to take control of seven or eight of their temporary outposts,” the brigadier-general told The Irrawaddy.

The Irrawaddy was not able to contact KIA officials for comment. However, the Kachin News Group (KNG) reported on Wednesday that the Tatmadaw occupied the headquarters of Battalion 36 under the KIA’s Brigade 6 near the village of Mong Baw.

The KNG quoted an officer from the KIA’s Brigade 6 as saying that KIA Battalion 36 had been forced to abandon all the outposts and that government troops were now deployed in old Howa village, where the outposts were based, and in Ting Sa Kawng and Wudang Bum, where the battalion commander had been based. The Brigade 6 officer spoke to the KNG on condition of anonymity.

Lamai Khun Ja, a member of the Peace-Talk Creation Group, a Myitkyina-based group that brokers peace talks between the KIA and the government, told The Irrawaddy that he had heard about the raid on the KIA outposts, but could not independently confirm it.

“I heard the news, but I don’t know if the KIA has confirmed it,” he said.

On April 11 last year, fierce clashes broke out between the KIA and the Tatmadaw in Awng Lawt in Tanai village. The following month, the KIA’s Brigade 2 and Battalion 14 were forced to withdraw from their headquarters.


Source:courtesy of THE IRRAWADDY
by CHIT MIN TUN

If you have any stories or news that you would like to share with the global online community, please feel free to share it with us by contacting us directly at[email protected]

Lahad Datu Murder: Remand Of 13 Students Extende
2024-03-30 07:57:54
Indian Communist Leader Sitaram Yechury Dies After Illness
2024-09-13 00:48:31
National Debt Forecast To Treble Over Next 50 Years
2024-09-13 01:29:55
TodayYesterdayThis WeekThis MonthThis YearTotal
205691825247796682175559114161395988222332
Since March 25, 2016



© Copyright 1999 - 2024 | Brunei's No. 1 News Website. All Rights Reserved.1250-A, Jalan Tanjung Bunut,Jalan Tutong BF2920, Bandar Seri Begawan, Negara Brunei Darussalam
