Title: “So long as the Burmese Military tries to annihilate us, clashes will continue”: Arakan Army deputy chief of staff | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
The Arakan Army was established in April 2009, declaring its mission as safeguarding the Rakhine (Arakan) peoples right to self-determination, and protecting the cultural heritage and identity of the Rakhine ethnicity. The Arakan Army (AA) is one of the four members of the Northern Alliance – a coalition that emerged in November 2016 during a joint offensive against the Tatmadaw in Muse township. The alliance, which consists of the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA), the Kachin Independence Army (KIA) and the Arakan Army (AA), has continued carrying out coordinated attacks on Tatmadaw and government outposts in northern Shan State. The alliance has lobbied for both the United Wa State Army (UWSA) and China to be given observer status in the peace process. None of the four factions of the Northern Alliance have signed the nationwide ceasefire agreement (NCA).
Freelance reporter Min Tayza Aung interviewed Brigadier General Nyo Tun Aung, deputy chief of staff of the Arakan Army, earlier this month for the Mon News Agency. This interview has been edited for clarity and length.
Q: The Arakan Army celebrates its eighth anniversary on April 10. How do you plan to commemorate this day?
A: We don’t plan to hold any big celebrations this year. We will only issue a formal message from the Arakan Army commander-in-chief and hold Arakan Army Day celebrations in respective military areas with local and overseas ULA [United League of Arakan] members. In some places, we will broadcast a speech. A football competition was held near Laiza area recently to mark the 8th anniversary of the Arakan Army. We plan to hold a grand celebration on the 10th anniversary in 2019.Q: What has the Arakan Army achieved over the past eight years? What are your plans going forward?A: The Arakan Army’s greatest achievement has been to receive the support, trust and hopes of nearly all Arakan people. Also, other ethnic armed organizations respect the Arakan Army and big countries, including China, know the leaders of the Arakan Army and our political aims. You can say this is the success of the ULA/AA.We didn’t reach this stage within just a day. It wasn’t the effort of a single person. We have reached this point after sacrifices of blood, sweat and lives. We haven’t gotten anything for free and we have faced tons of challenges, difficulties and obstacles, as well as opposition everywhere and at every stage. We have been able to succeed so far because we have continuously strived hard in unity.But we shouldn’t feel content with this current situation. We can only say that we have reached our goal of after the Rakhita (Arakan) directive and Arakan dream, which were set down by the United League of Arakan (ULA), has been achieved. We haven’t reached that goal yet, but it’s not as far away as it was in the past.Q: The UNFC [the United Nationalities Federal Council, an ethnic umbrella organization] has encouraged members of the Northern Alliance, including the Arakan Army, to take part in the nationwide ceasefire agreement (NCA). Why have you decided to deviate from the NCA and support the UWSA’s plan to establish a new peace process instead?A: We have been driven into this situation because of the political swindling and dishonesty of the previous government, as well as the political restrictions of the current government format. The continuous chauvinism and offensives by the Burmese Military is aimed at annihilating ethnic armed organizations [through] military pressure, neglecting equality and allying with some ethnic armed organization while fighting with others. The continuous focus on the six-point peace policy is a problem.Q: The Northern Alliance and the Peace Commission are negotiating some terminology, like “armed struggle” versus “armed conflict”. Are there any plans to move towards the NCA peace process after this terminology debate is resolved?A: We, the Northern Alliance, plan to meet with the Peace Commission led by U Tin Myo Win in a couple of days under arrangements made by the People’s Republic of China. The Peace Commission offered to meet us through the People’s Republic of China (Yunnan Province route). The date has already been set and we have already decided to attend the meeting. We need to wait and see what will happen at the meeting.[Editor’s note, although this meeting was planned before Thingyan, it has not occurred]Translated by Thida LinnEdited by Laignee Barron
A: We don’t plan to hold any big celebrations this year. We will only issue a formal message from the Arakan Army commander-in-chief and hold Arakan Army Day celebrations in respective military areas with local and overseas ULA [United League of Arakan] members. In some places, we will broadcast a speech. A football competition was held near Laiza area recently to mark the 8th anniversary of the Arakan Army. We plan to hold a grand celebration on the 10th anniversary in 2019.
Q: What has the Arakan Army achieved over the past eight years? What are your plans going forward?
A: The Arakan Army’s greatest achievement has been to receive the support, trust and hopes of nearly all Arakan people. Also, other ethnic armed organizations respect the Arakan Army and big countries, including China, know the leaders of the Arakan Army and our political aims. You can say this is the success of the ULA/AA.
We didn’t reach this stage within just a day. It wasn’t the effort of a single person. We have reached this point after sacrifices of blood, sweat and lives. We haven’t gotten anything for free and we have faced tons of challenges, difficulties and obstacles, as well as opposition everywhere and at every stage. We have been able to succeed so far because we have continuously strived hard in unity.
But we shouldn’t feel content with this current situation. We can only say that we have reached our goal of after the Rakhita (Arakan) directive and Arakan dream, which were set down by the United League of Arakan (ULA), has been achieved. We haven’t reached that goal yet, but it’s not as far away as it was in the past.
Q: The UNFC [the United Nationalities Federal Council, an ethnic umbrella organization] has encouraged members of the Northern Alliance, including the Arakan Army, to take part in the nationwide ceasefire agreement (NCA). Why have you decided to deviate from the NCA and support the UWSA’s plan to establish a new peace process instead?
A: We have been driven into this situation because of the political swindling and dishonesty of the previous government, as well as the political restrictions of the current government format. The continuous chauvinism and offensives by the Burmese Military is aimed at annihilating ethnic armed organizations [through] military pressure, neglecting equality and allying with some ethnic armed organization while fighting with others. The continuous focus on the six-point peace policy is a problem.
Q: The Northern Alliance and the Peace Commission are negotiating some terminology, like “armed struggle” versus “armed conflict”. Are there any plans to move towards the NCA peace process after this terminology debate is resolved?
A: We, the Northern Alliance, plan to meet with the Peace Commission led by U Tin Myo Win in a couple of days under arrangements made by the People’s Republic of China. The Peace Commission offered to meet us through the People’s Republic of China (Yunnan Province route). The date has already been set and we have already decided to attend the meeting. We need to wait and see what will happen at the meeting.
[Editor’s note, although this meeting was planned before Thingyan, it has not occurred]
Translated by Thida LinnEdited by Laignee Barron

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: “So long as the Burmese Military tries to annihilate us, clashes will continue”: Arakan Army deputy chief of staff | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
The Arakan Army was established in April 2009, declaring its mission as safeguarding the Rakhine (Arakan) peoples right to self-determination, and protecting the cultural heritage and identity of the Rakhine ethnicity. The Arakan Army (AA) is one of the four members of the Northern Alliance – a coalition that emerged in November 2016 during a joint offensive against the Tatmadaw in Muse township. The alliance, which consists of the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA), the Kachin Independence Army (KIA) and the Arakan Army (AA), has continued carrying out coordinated attacks on Tatmadaw and government outposts in northern Shan State. The alliance has lobbied for both the United Wa State Army (UWSA) and China to be given observer status in the peace process. None of the four factions of the Northern Alliance have signed the nationwide ceasefire agreement (NCA).
Freelance reporter Min Tayza Aung interviewed Brigadier General Nyo Tun Aung, deputy chief of staff of the Arakan Army, earlier this month for the Mon News Agency. This interview has been edited for clarity and length.
Q: The Arakan Army celebrates its eighth anniversary on April 10. How do you plan to commemorate this day?
A: We don’t plan to hold any big celebrations this year. We will only issue a formal message from the Arakan Army commander-in-chief and hold Arakan Army Day celebrations in respective military areas with local and overseas ULA [United League of Arakan] members. In some places, we will broadcast a speech. A football competition was held near Laiza area recently to mark the 8th anniversary of the Arakan Army. We plan to hold a grand celebration on the 10th anniversary in 2019.Q: What has the Arakan Army achieved over the past eight years? What are your plans going forward?A: The Arakan Army’s greatest achievement has been to receive the support, trust and hopes of nearly all Arakan people. Also, other ethnic armed organizations respect the Arakan Army and big countries, including China, know the leaders of the Arakan Army and our political aims. You can say this is the success of the ULA/AA.We didn’t reach this stage within just a day. It wasn’t the effort of a single person. We have reached this point after sacrifices of blood, sweat and lives. We haven’t gotten anything for free and we have faced tons of challenges, difficulties and obstacles, as well as opposition everywhere and at every stage. We have been able to succeed so far because we have continuously strived hard in unity.But we shouldn’t feel content with this current situation. We can only say that we have reached our goal of after the Rakhita (Arakan) directive and Arakan dream, which were set down by the United League of Arakan (ULA), has been achieved. We haven’t reached that goal yet, but it’s not as far away as it was in the past.Q: The UNFC [the United Nationalities Federal Council, an ethnic umbrella organization] has encouraged members of the Northern Alliance, including the Arakan Army, to take part in the nationwide ceasefire agreement (NCA). Why have you decided to deviate from the NCA and support the UWSA’s plan to establish a new peace process instead?A: We have been driven into this situation because of the political swindling and dishonesty of the previous government, as well as the political restrictions of the current government format. The continuous chauvinism and offensives by the Burmese Military is aimed at annihilating ethnic armed organizations [through] military pressure, neglecting equality and allying with some ethnic armed organization while fighting with others. The continuous focus on the six-point peace policy is a problem.Q: The Northern Alliance and the Peace Commission are negotiating some terminology, like “armed struggle” versus “armed conflict”. Are there any plans to move towards the NCA peace process after this terminology debate is resolved?A: We, the Northern Alliance, plan to meet with the Peace Commission led by U Tin Myo Win in a couple of days under arrangements made by the People’s Republic of China. The Peace Commission offered to meet us through the People’s Republic of China (Yunnan Province route). The date has already been set and we have already decided to attend the meeting. We need to wait and see what will happen at the meeting.[Editor’s note, although this meeting was planned before Thingyan, it has not occurred]Translated by Thida LinnEdited by Laignee Barron
A: We don’t plan to hold any big celebrations this year. We will only issue a formal message from the Arakan Army commander-in-chief and hold Arakan Army Day celebrations in respective military areas with local and overseas ULA [United League of Arakan] members. In some places, we will broadcast a speech. A football competition was held near Laiza area recently to mark the 8th anniversary of the Arakan Army. We plan to hold a grand celebration on the 10th anniversary in 2019.
Q: What has the Arakan Army achieved over the past eight years? What are your plans going forward?
A: The Arakan Army’s greatest achievement has been to receive the support, trust and hopes of nearly all Arakan people. Also, other ethnic armed organizations respect the Arakan Army and big countries, including China, know the leaders of the Arakan Army and our political aims. You can say this is the success of the ULA/AA.
We didn’t reach this stage within just a day. It wasn’t the effort of a single person. We have reached this point after sacrifices of blood, sweat and lives. We haven’t gotten anything for free and we have faced tons of challenges, difficulties and obstacles, as well as opposition everywhere and at every stage. We have been able to succeed so far because we have continuously strived hard in unity.
But we shouldn’t feel content with this current situation. We can only say that we have reached our goal of after the Rakhita (Arakan) directive and Arakan dream, which were set down by the United League of Arakan (ULA), has been achieved. We haven’t reached that goal yet, but it’s not as far away as it was in the past.
Q: The UNFC [the United Nationalities Federal Council, an ethnic umbrella organization] has encouraged members of the Northern Alliance, including the Arakan Army, to take part in the nationwide ceasefire agreement (NCA). Why have you decided to deviate from the NCA and support the UWSA’s plan to establish a new peace process instead?
A: We have been driven into this situation because of the political swindling and dishonesty of the previous government, as well as the political restrictions of the current government format. The continuous chauvinism and offensives by the Burmese Military is aimed at annihilating ethnic armed organizations [through] military pressure, neglecting equality and allying with some ethnic armed organization while fighting with others. The continuous focus on the six-point peace policy is a problem.
Q: The Northern Alliance and the Peace Commission are negotiating some terminology, like “armed struggle” versus “armed conflict”. Are there any plans to move towards the NCA peace process after this terminology debate is resolved?
A: We, the Northern Alliance, plan to meet with the Peace Commission led by U Tin Myo Win in a couple of days under arrangements made by the People’s Republic of China. The Peace Commission offered to meet us through the People’s Republic of China (Yunnan Province route). The date has already been set and we have already decided to attend the meeting. We need to wait and see what will happen at the meeting.
[Editor’s note, although this meeting was planned before Thingyan, it has not occurred]
Translated by Thida LinnEdited by Laignee Barron

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: HAPPENINGS IN APRIL: Burma still muddling through the peace process? | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
The month of April hasn’t yet end, but quite a lot of important happening has already taken place, which might be crucial in shaping the political future of the country.
They are: the April 1, by-elections; April 6 to 11 President Htin Kyaw’s China visit; March 14 to April 7, Karen National Union (KNU) Congress; April 8 to 9 United Nationalities Federal Council (UNFC) and Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement (NCA)-signatory 7 Ethnic Armed Organizations (EAOs) meeting; April 11, Peace Talks discussion between the State Counselor and the rural youth at Myanmar International Convention Center in Naypyitaw; and April 15 ongoing in Pangkham conference among NCA-non-signatory 7 EAOs.
Now let us look at briefly on each of the happening a bit to later determine on how they could impact on the peace process situation as a whole.
By-electionThe by-election for 19 seats in Burma’s parliament were held on April 1, 2017, which was contested by 94 candidates [18 each from the Nationalities League for Democracy (NLD) and Union Solidarity Development Party (USDP), 51 from different ethnic political parties and seven individual candidates] from 24 political parties.Accordingly, the NLD secured nine (47 percent) out of 19 vacant constituencies, followed by the Shan Nationalities League for Democracy (SNLD), with six seats (32 per cent), the Union Solidarity and Development Party with two seats (11 per cent) and the Arakan National Party (ANP) and the All Nationalities Democracy Party (ANDP) with one seat (5 percent) each. (Source: Asia Foundation – April 12, 2017)President Htin Kyaw’s China visitPresident Htin Kyaw’s China visit from April 6 to 11 was generally taken as a successful trip, as he held bilateral talks with President Xi Jinping and met with Premier Li Keqiang of the State Council, and Chairman Zhang Dejiang of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress separately on April 10, 2017, followed by the two leaders (Presidents) attending the signing ceremony of cooperation agreements between Myanmar and the People’s Republic of China.“A total of (9) MoUs, Agreements and Exchange of Letters were successfully inked, namely Agreement on China’s grant for economic and technical cooperation of RMB Yuan (1) billion to Myanmar to implement projects in economic developments and living standard improvement of Myanmar people including education, rural development and other fields; Cooperation in the Field of Forestry; Cooperation in Seafarers Training, Education and Development; Cooperation in Medical Technic Training Centre and Disease Control; Technical Cooperation Project Regarding the 29th South East Asian Games; Crude Oil Transportation Agreement and implementation of Development of Deep Sea Port Project and Industrial Park in Kyauk Phyu Special Economic Zone,” according to the press release issued by the Myanmar Ministry of Foreign Affairs of April 13, 2017.“Furthermore, they discussed on the matters of maintaining peace and stability and development of the border areas, continuation of China’s constructive support for the peace process of Myanmar and further pursuance of 2+2 high level consultations led by Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Defense. China also expressed its support toward Myanmar Government’s efforts for the national reconciliation and peace, promoting democratic transition, improving socio-economic lives of the Myanmar people,” according to the press release.The outstanding point to be noticed is that the mentioning of the leaders also cordially discussed about the ongoing infrastructure projects including oil and gas pipelines and Kyauk-Phyu Special Economic Zone and Deep Sea Port.Apart from that the usual diplomatic niceties such as “the importance of advancing “Comprehensive Cooperative Strategic Partnership Relations” based on the Five Principles of Peaceful Co-existence and existing “Pauk-Phaw” friendship; promoting diverse cooperation between the two countries particularly for the benefit of the two peoples,” were stressed.16th KNU CongressThe KNU 16th Congress that began March 14 and ended on April 7,  in Law Khee Lah, again re-elected KNU chairman Saw Mutu Say Poe, former general secretary Saw Kwe Htoo Win elected as vice chairman, former central executive committee member Saw Ta Doh Moo to become the general secretary, Padoh Hser Pwe (also known as Saw Steve) elected as joint secretary 1 and Padoh Saw Hla Tun elected as joint secretary 2.Experienced leaders such as former vice chairperson Naw Zipporah Sein, former joint secretaries Saw Thaw Thee Bwe and Padoh Mahn Mahn, and Gen Saw Baw Kyaw Heh, vice chief-of-staff of the KNU’s armed wing the Karen National Liberation Army (KNLA), were not re-elected to the KNU’s central standing committee.In short, the so-called hard-liner or “idealist faction” headed by Naw Zipporah Sein lose out to the government-friendly or “pragmatic and business-oriented” faction of Saw Mutu Say Poe, effectively denying any position in its 60 representative Central Standing Committee (CSC).Karen sources said that the old KNU leadership was split on two major different positions held towards how the peace talks should proceed. While the chairperson General Mutu Say Po group has voiced support for having closer engagement with government groups and the military, Padoh Naw Zipporah Sein’s faction had taken a more cautious approach and pushed for political settlement before mega development projects were given the green light, according to the Karen News report of April 8.However, KIC reported on April 11 that Karen National Liberation Army (KNLA) and Karen Natioal Defense Organization (KNDO) vowed to fall in line with the KNU leadership during the meeting between commanders. Regarding this, KNLA first rate commander G1, Saw Tamala Thaw Ka said: “We have the the responsibility to to follow the political leadership of the KNU. Regarding this, it is our opinion that all the KNU political and policy directives will be implemented accordingly.”Not surprisingly, the Union Solidarity and Development Party (USDP) congratulated newly-elected leaders of the KNU following the victory of the Mutu Say Poe in the election. Mutu has forged a close relationship with the former President Thein Sein and as well, the commander-in-Chief Min Aung Hlaing.With the signature of USDP chairman U Than Htay, the party released the congratulation notice on April 9, stating that the party was pleased and proud of the leaders who were elected during the KNU’s 16th Congress.UNFC and NCA-signatory 7 EAOs MeetingThe UNFC meeting from April 3 to 5 in Chiang Mai basically resolved the crucial question of whether the KIO and SSPP would opt for Pangkham initiated approach of not making use of the government preferred NCA-based peace process or follows the UNFC’s line of amending the NCA according to its 9-point proposal with the government and continue the peace process.The understanding seems to be that the KIO and SSPP would cooperate militarily with Pangkham and politically with the UNFC.Following this, the NCA signatory and non-signatory 14 EAOs of some 60 participants met in Chiang Mai from April 8 to 9 to iron out policy matters regarding the ongoing peace process.All members of  UNFC that have yet to sign the NCA, the Kachin Independence Organization (KIO); the Shan State Progress Party (SSPP); the New Mon State Party (NMSP); the Karenni National Progressive Party (KNPP); the Arakan National Council (ANC); the Lahu Democratic Union (LDU); and the Wa National Organization (WNO) were present.Seven signatories of the NCA that also attended the meeting were the Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS); the Chin National Front (CNF); the PNLO; the Democratic Karen Benevolence Army (DKBA); the Karen National Liberation Army – Peace Council (KNLA-PC); the Arakan Liberation Party (ALP); and the All Burma Students’ Democratic Front (ABSDF).However, the Karen National Union did not attend because its own congress was in progress.The attending EAOs agreed to cooperate on drafting the basic principles for building a federal union, the Panglong Manual or Panglong Handbook as a political principle guidelines, that were tabled earlier during the Mai Ja Yang EAOs’ conference last year. Apart from that, the meeting resolutions also mention agreement on drafting the issues of  security affairs or formation of a federal union army and Joint Committee for Budget of Peace Process (JCB), Policies and Programmes on Transitional Matters.Peace Talk with the rural youthOn April 11, State Counselor Aung San Suu Kyi held peace talk with the rural youth in Naypyitaw for the third time, the first was in January 1, in Naypyitaw and the second, in Panglong on February 12 (Union Day) this year. She said in the future this would be undertaken to meet the youth every three month.During the discussion Suu Kyi emphasized the fact that the rural areas are the backbone of the country as they are made up of 70 percent of the country’s territory, which was attended by 12 youths – 5 Bamar and 7 non-Bamar ethnic nationalities which included Kachin, Shan, Kokang, Karen, Pao-O, Mon and Palaung – from the different parts of the country.She took the opportunity to send her often reiterated message to the EAOs that have yet to sign the NCA by saying that the peace talks were always open to the all the groups, but that it was not possible to wait for all to sign in order to hold the second Panglong peace conference, roughly scheduled to take place within the first or second week of May.“The groups who have already signed can be involved fully, and the groups who have not signed yet can become involved to some extent. We will give a chance for all to be involved,” said Suu Kyi, according to the report of April 11 from the Myanmar Ministry of Information.She further stressed: “The most important thing is to exchange views and negotiate on different views. They have the right to see things differently, but have a responsibility to adjust. So that we can get peace based on different views and can make the same goals for peace. The country will be stable when there is rule of law. Rule of law is important for reconciliation so that it is a value for peace.”Most of the youths participating the peace talk expressed their desire to achieve peace so that their daily lives could be improved. However, only one significant message was aired, when Ma Phyu Sin Pwint from Namhsan Township, northern Shan State in the Palaung Self-administered Zone, said there was much fighting in her region that hurt many people. She wanted to ask the armed groups on how to achieve peace quickly. She also wanted to ask the Tatmadaw when the armed groups will be allowed to sign, according to the same report from the Myanmar Ministry of Information.Pangkham ConferencePanghsang now officially known as Pangkham held the 7 non-signatory EAOs meeting for the second time within this year from April 15 to 19.Earlier, the 7 EAOs, United Wa State Party/Army (UWSP/UWSA), United League of Arakan/Arakan Army (ULA/AA), Kachin Independence Organization/Army (KIO/KIA), Palaung State Liberation Front/Ta’ang National Liberation Army (PSLF/TNLA), Myanmar National Truth and Justice Party/Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNTJP/MNDAA), Peace and Solidarity Committee/National Democratic Alliance Army (PSC/NDAA) and Shan State Progress Party/Shan State Army (SSPP/SSA) held a meeting from February 22 to 24, stating that a committee would be formed to lead the peace negotiation process with the government, which would not be within the mold of NCA-based peace process.The 7 EAOs, numbering 27 representatives met in Wa State, Pangkham from April 15 to 19, hosted by the UWSP/UWSA and supported by the PSC/NDAA.Following the end of the meeting, an eight-point statement, signed by the ethnic armed revolutionary leaders – fourth Pangkham meeting, was issued as follows:The ethnic armed revolutionary leaders fourth meeting officially confirmed the “Political Negotiation Committee” to “Union Political Negotiation Committee” (UPNC) to negotiate with the Republic of the Union of Myanmar.UPNC and the lists of secretariat and negotiation representatives under it are confirmed.Rules and regulations of the UNPD are confirmed.The “ethnic armed revolutionary organizations general principles and position on political negotiation” is confirmed as a common position negotiation document and would be used in negotiation with the Republic of the Union of Myanmar.UPNC fund is contributed by all as agreed upon.The 7 meeting participant organizations are founders of the UPNC and the door is always open for any ethnic armed revolutionary organization, political party and influential individual, that accepts the rules and regulations of the “ethnic armed revolutionary organizations general principles and position on political negotiation,” announced during the third Pangkham meeting.The organizations that participated in the Wa State meeting have tabled constructive position papers, with genuine good will, on how to overcome the present difficulties that is evident in the peace process, were successfully discussed and negotiated. Following the end of the meeting, UPNC will deliver the document to the Republic of the Union of Myanmar Government.In the future, members of the UPNC when negotiating with the Republic of the Union of Myanmar Government will not negotiate individually but only under the name of the committee together. (Source: Northern Alliance – Burma)Earlier, according to the BBC report of April 18, Ta Phone Kyaw of TNLA said that the NCA-based process is hard to achieve result and primarily it should aim at stopping the war.Regarding the question of KIO and SSPP, he said that as far as he is concerned, both would go along with the Pangkham initiative, adding that the EAOs that move according to the NCA-based trend and Pangkham’s non-NCA-based line would somehow meet along the way, as both groups have the same kind of political goals and aspirations.Concerning the earlier government initiative meeting with the MNDAA, TNLA and AA, he said it would be useless just to meet with the three of them and that they would opt for the meeting as a committee, which has been recently formed in Pangkham.Summing up and perspectiveTo sum up, the by-election shows that the tactical voting which the ethnic electorate gave to the NLD in 2015 November election, so that it could usher in a political change from quasi-civilian-military to pure civilian regime and achieve peace and reconciliation, seems to be withdrawn as the Shan and Arakan people overwhelmingly voted for the homegrown ethnic parties of SNLD and ANP. Additionally, the ANDP victory in Karenni (Kayah) State also support this trend of ethnic awareness to back the ethnic parties rather than the NLD.President Htin Kyaw’s China visit also looks like a compromise to Myitsone debacle has been found, with likely compensation by agreeing to ongoing infrastructure projects including oil and gas pipelines and Kyauk-Phyu Special Economic Zone and Deep Sea Port. But on the problematic issue of Burma-China border security and resolving the conflict between the Burma Army and the EAOs, no concrete solution seems to have been agreed and would likely go on with China continuing its dual-track policy of government-to-government and party-to-party level approach. This would mean, the Burmese government desire of China abandoning its proxy-like EAOs and siding with its efforts in defeating them wouldn’t be entertained.The 16th KNU Congress has elected the government friendly faction of Mutu Say Poe and the so-called hard-liner faction headed by Naw Zipporah Sein was ousted, so this should serve the government good. The only problem is that the latent conflict within the KNU remains and it is not quite sure that whether the fragile unity could be maintained for long, as the KNU front-line commanders were said to be wary of Mutu’s all-out peace initiative.According to Saw Greh Moo, who is a Karen community activist and an observer at the 16th KNU Congress, “I spoke with seven senior and mid-level military officers in the Karen National Liberation Army to try to understand their opinions and positions on the current peace process. Out the seven, only one expressed optimism for the future, while the rest are displeased and distrustful of the way their leaders have handled the peace process and negotiations with the Burma government. With this in mind, you certainly get an understanding that the foundation of the peace process remains very fragile inside the KNU.”The 14 NCA-signatory and non-signatory EAOs meeting could agree upon the federal union formation principles and also the Panglong Manual which would be the political guidelines of the ethnic nationalities, but the question of disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) and security sector reform (SSR) or security issue still needs to be ironed out between them, as each side – signatory and non-signatory – has blue print of its own.The UNFC meeting on the other hand was able to compromise on the crucial question of whether the SSPP and KIO – two strongest EAOs among the UNFC – would follow the Pangkham-initiated non-NCA-based peace process trend or abandoned the NCA line of approach altogether, which the UNFC is in the process of negotiating with the government with its nine-point proposal to amend the NCA, so that it could sign. The compromise, accordingly is to employ double-track approach, which is to work militarily with Pangkham pact – Northern Alliance – Burma (NA-B) plus UWSA – and politically with the UNFC.The NA-B is made up of KIA, MNDAA, TNLA and AA, which has been delivering ongoing running battles in the northern part of Shan State.Suu Kyi’s peace talk with the rural youth is seen as an ad hoc stunt by many Burma watchers and observers without much substance in it, as she took the opportunity only to reiterate its message of signing the NCA and enter the Union Peace Conference – 21st Century Panglong (UPC-21CP), without addressing the need to create a level playing field.On April 17, Pyidaungsu Institute’s (PI) Director Khuensai Jaiyane was interviewed by the BBC Burmese section in relation with the President Htin Kyaw’s explanation, during his Burmese new year message to the people, regarding the problematic in amending the military-drawn constitution, where he said it was a delicate issue which the government is trying to handle with special care.Khuensai pointed out the necessity of close cooperation  between the government, Miliatry and EAOs like during the tenure of former President Thein Sein, where unnecessary red tape were eliminated and “one stop service” mechanism establishment, to handle arising problems effectively in the NCA-based peace process. In other words, he seems to be saying that the present NLD regime handling of the peace process is ineffective.He explicitly stressed that the government and Military should cooperate and nurture close relationship, with common interpretation on the NCA together with the EAOs and not differently as it is now the case. Apart from that, he said the non-signatory EAOs should give the NCA a try first, before concluding that the NCA is not working.Given such a backdrop, the bird’s eye view of Burma conflict spectrum and its peace process undertakings could be viewed as extremely disturbing and convoluted. A senior SSPP functionary told this writer that the UNFC couldn’t consider on what to do next if its nine-point proposal to amend the NCA is ignored. Likewise, the 8 EAOs that signed the NCA wouldn’t  know what to do, except to ask the non-signatories to join the signing of NCA. The government, on the other hand, cannot move forward with its UPC-21CP with just 8 EAOs, when the remaining 13 EAOs are still left out, particularly the with strongest EAOs, in Shan and Kachin States, making up with two-third of the from the whole estimate 100,000 ethnic resistance troops. And finally, the Military doesn’t know how to resolve the problems politically, apart from just military operations and offensives.For now, even though the State Counselor and Commander-in-Chief have sent messages to the people on the eve of the Burmese new year on April 17 that this year should be the year of peace, all available data and indications are pointing toward heading to a more uncertain, politically troubled waters and would be forced to muddle through without clear and precise goal.Given such circumstances, only with determined political will, coupled with altruism as the cornerstone think-pattern embraced by all major stakeholders – government, Military and EAOs – would be able to pull us out of this vicious circle of violence and hatred, as there is hardly any other way out.
By-election
The by-election for 19 seats in Burma’s parliament were held on April 1, 2017, which was contested by 94 candidates [18 each from the Nationalities League for Democracy (NLD) and Union Solidarity Development Party (USDP), 51 from different ethnic political parties and seven individual candidates] from 24 political parties.
Accordingly, the NLD secured nine (47 percent) out of 19 vacant constituencies, followed by the Shan Nationalities League for Democracy (SNLD), with six seats (32 per cent), the Union Solidarity and Development Party with two seats (11 per cent) and the Arakan National Party (ANP) and the All Nationalities Democracy Party (ANDP) with one seat (5 percent) each. (Source: Asia Foundation – April 12, 2017)
President Htin Kyaw’s China visit
President Htin Kyaw’s China visit from April 6 to 11 was generally taken as a successful trip, as he held bilateral talks with President Xi Jinping and met with Premier Li Keqiang of the State Council, and Chairman Zhang Dejiang of the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress separately on April 10, 2017, followed by the two leaders (Presidents) attending the signing ceremony of cooperation agreements between Myanmar and the People’s Republic of China.
“A total of (9) MoUs, Agreements and Exchange of Letters were successfully inked, namely Agreement on China’s grant for economic and technical cooperation of RMB Yuan (1) billion to Myanmar to implement projects in economic developments and living standard improvement of Myanmar people including education, rural development and other fields; Cooperation in the Field of Forestry; Cooperation in Seafarers Training, Education and Development; Cooperation in Medical Technic Training Centre and Disease Control; Technical Cooperation Project Regarding the 29th South East Asian Games; Crude Oil Transportation Agreement and implementation of Development of Deep Sea Port Project and Industrial Park in Kyauk Phyu Special Economic Zone,” according to the press release issued by the Myanmar Ministry of Foreign Affairs of April 13, 2017.
“Furthermore, they discussed on the matters of maintaining peace and stability and development of the border areas, continuation of China’s constructive support for the peace process of Myanmar and further pursuance of 2+2 high level consultations led by Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Defense. China also expressed its support toward Myanmar Government’s efforts for the national reconciliation and peace, promoting democratic transition, improving socio-economic lives of the Myanmar people,” according to the press release.
The outstanding point to be noticed is that the mentioning of the leaders also cordially discussed about the ongoing infrastructure projects including oil and gas pipelines and Kyauk-Phyu Special Economic Zone and Deep Sea Port.
Apart from that the usual diplomatic niceties such as “the importance of advancing “Comprehensive Cooperative Strategic Partnership Relations” based on the Five Principles of Peaceful Co-existence and existing “Pauk-Phaw” friendship; promoting diverse cooperation between the two countries particularly for the benefit of the two peoples,” were stressed.
16th KNU Congress
The KNU 16th Congress that began March 14 and ended on April 7,  in Law Khee Lah, again re-elected KNU chairman Saw Mutu Say Poe, former general secretary Saw Kwe Htoo Win elected as vice chairman, former central executive committee member Saw Ta Doh Moo to become the general secretary, Padoh Hser Pwe (also known as Saw Steve) elected as joint secretary 1 and Padoh Saw Hla Tun elected as joint secretary 2.
Experienced leaders such as former vice chairperson Naw Zipporah Sein, former joint secretaries Saw Thaw Thee Bwe and Padoh Mahn Mahn, and Gen Saw Baw Kyaw Heh, vice chief-of-staff of the KNU’s armed wing the Karen National Liberation Army (KNLA), were not re-elected to the KNU’s central standing committee.
In short, the so-called hard-liner or “idealist faction” headed by Naw Zipporah Sein lose out to the government-friendly or “pragmatic and business-oriented” faction of Saw Mutu Say Poe, effectively denying any position in its 60 representative Central Standing Committee (CSC).
Karen sources said that the old KNU leadership was split on two major different positions held towards how the peace talks should proceed. While the chairperson General Mutu Say Po group has voiced support for having closer engagement with government groups and the military, Padoh Naw Zipporah Sein’s faction had taken a more cautious approach and pushed for political settlement before mega development projects were given the green light, according to the Karen News report of April 8.
However, KIC reported on April 11 that Karen National Liberation Army (KNLA) and Karen Natioal Defense Organization (KNDO) vowed to fall in line with the KNU leadership during the meeting between commanders. Regarding this, KNLA first rate commander G1, Saw Tamala Thaw Ka said: “We have the the responsibility to to follow the political leadership of the KNU. Regarding this, it is our opinion that all the KNU political and policy directives will be implemented accordingly.”
Not surprisingly, the Union Solidarity and Development Party (USDP) congratulated newly-elected leaders of the KNU following the victory of the Mutu Say Poe in the election. Mutu has forged a close relationship with the former President Thein Sein and as well, the commander-in-Chief Min Aung Hlaing.
With the signature of USDP chairman U Than Htay, the party released the congratulation notice on April 9, stating that the party was pleased and proud of the leaders who were elected during the KNU’s 16th Congress.
UNFC and NCA-signatory 7 EAOs Meeting
The UNFC meeting from April 3 to 5 in Chiang Mai basically resolved the crucial question of whether the KIO and SSPP would opt for Pangkham initiated approach of not making use of the government preferred NCA-based peace process or follows the UNFC’s line of amending the NCA according to its 9-point proposal with the government and continue the peace process.
The understanding seems to be that the KIO and SSPP would cooperate militarily with Pangkham and politically with the UNFC.
Following this, the NCA signatory and non-signatory 14 EAOs of some 60 participants met in Chiang Mai from April 8 to 9 to iron out policy matters regarding the ongoing peace process.
All members of  UNFC that have yet to sign the NCA, the Kachin Independence Organization (KIO); the Shan State Progress Party (SSPP); the New Mon State Party (NMSP); the Karenni National Progressive Party (KNPP); the Arakan National Council (ANC); the Lahu Democratic Union (LDU); and the Wa National Organization (WNO) were present.
Seven signatories of the NCA that also attended the meeting were the Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS); the Chin National Front (CNF); the PNLO; the Democratic Karen Benevolence Army (DKBA); the Karen National Liberation Army – Peace Council (KNLA-PC); the Arakan Liberation Party (ALP); and the All Burma Students’ Democratic Front (ABSDF).
However, the Karen National Union did not attend because its own congress was in progress.
The attending EAOs agreed to cooperate on drafting the basic principles for building a federal union, the Panglong Manual or Panglong Handbook as a political principle guidelines, that were tabled earlier during the Mai Ja Yang EAOs’ conference last year. Apart from that, the meeting resolutions also mention agreement on drafting the issues of  security affairs or formation of a federal union army and Joint Committee for Budget of Peace Process (JCB), Policies and Programmes on Transitional Matters.
Peace Talk with the rural youth
On April 11, State Counselor Aung San Suu Kyi held peace talk with the rural youth in Naypyitaw for the third time, the first was in January 1, in Naypyitaw and the second, in Panglong on February 12 (Union Day) this year. She said in the future this would be undertaken to meet the youth every three month.
During the discussion Suu Kyi emphasized the fact that the rural areas are the backbone of the country as they are made up of 70 percent of the country’s territory, which was attended by 12 youths – 5 Bamar and 7 non-Bamar ethnic nationalities which included Kachin, Shan, Kokang, Karen, Pao-O, Mon and Palaung – from the different parts of the country.
She took the opportunity to send her often reiterated message to the EAOs that have yet to sign the NCA by saying that the peace talks were always open to the all the groups, but that it was not possible to wait for all to sign in order to hold the second Panglong peace conference, roughly scheduled to take place within the first or second week of May.
“The groups who have already signed can be involved fully, and the groups who have not signed yet can become involved to some extent. We will give a chance for all to be involved,” said Suu Kyi, according to the report of April 11 from the Myanmar Ministry of Information.
She further stressed: “The most important thing is to exchange views and negotiate on different views. They have the right to see things differently, but have a responsibility to adjust. So that we can get peace based on different views and can make the same goals for peace. The country will be stable when there is rule of law. Rule of law is important for reconciliation so that it is a value for peace.”
Most of the youths participating the peace talk expressed their desire to achieve peace so that their daily lives could be improved. However, only one significant message was aired, when Ma Phyu Sin Pwint from Namhsan Township, northern Shan State in the Palaung Self-administered Zone, said there was much fighting in her region that hurt many people. She wanted to ask the armed groups on how to achieve peace quickly. She also wanted to ask the Tatmadaw when the armed groups will be allowed to sign, according to the same report from the Myanmar Ministry of Information.
Pangkham Conference
Panghsang now officially known as Pangkham held the 7 non-signatory EAOs meeting for the second time within this year from April 15 to 19.
Earlier, the 7 EAOs, United Wa State Party/Army (UWSP/UWSA), United League of Arakan/Arakan Army (ULA/AA), Kachin Independence Organization/Army (KIO/KIA), Palaung State Liberation Front/Ta’ang National Liberation Army (PSLF/TNLA), Myanmar National Truth and Justice Party/Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNTJP/MNDAA), Peace and Solidarity Committee/National Democratic Alliance Army (PSC/NDAA) and Shan State Progress Party/Shan State Army (SSPP/SSA) held a meeting from February 22 to 24, stating that a committee would be formed to lead the peace negotiation process with the government, which would not be within the mold of NCA-based peace process.
The 7 EAOs, numbering 27 representatives met in Wa State, Pangkham from April 15 to 19, hosted by the UWSP/UWSA and supported by the PSC/NDAA.
Following the end of the meeting, an eight-point statement, signed by the ethnic armed revolutionary leaders – fourth Pangkham meeting, was issued as follows:
Earlier, according to the BBC report of April 18, Ta Phone Kyaw of TNLA said that the NCA-based process is hard to achieve result and primarily it should aim at stopping the war.
Regarding the question of KIO and SSPP, he said that as far as he is concerned, both would go along with the Pangkham initiative, adding that the EAOs that move according to the NCA-based trend and Pangkham’s non-NCA-based line would somehow meet along the way, as both groups have the same kind of political goals and aspirations.
Concerning the earlier government initiative meeting with the MNDAA, TNLA and AA, he said it would be useless just to meet with the three of them and that they would opt for the meeting as a committee, which has been recently formed in Pangkham.
Summing up and perspective
To sum up, the by-election shows that the tactical voting which the ethnic electorate gave to the NLD in 2015 November election, so that it could usher in a political change from quasi-civilian-military to pure civilian regime and achieve peace and reconciliation, seems to be withdrawn as the Shan and Arakan people overwhelmingly voted for the homegrown ethnic parties of SNLD and ANP. Additionally, the ANDP victory in Karenni (Kayah) State also support this trend of ethnic awareness to back the ethnic parties rather than the NLD.
President Htin Kyaw’s China visit also looks like a compromise to Myitsone debacle has been found, with likely compensation by agreeing to ongoing infrastructure projects including oil and gas pipelines and Kyauk-Phyu Special Economic Zone and Deep Sea Port. But on the problematic issue of Burma-China border security and resolving the conflict between the Burma Army and the EAOs, no concrete solution seems to have been agreed and would likely go on with China continuing its dual-track policy of government-to-government and party-to-party level approach. This would mean, the Burmese government desire of China abandoning its proxy-like EAOs and siding with its efforts in defeating them wouldn’t be entertained.
The 16th KNU Congress has elected the government friendly faction of Mutu Say Poe and the so-called hard-liner faction headed by Naw Zipporah Sein was ousted, so this should serve the government good. The only problem is that the latent conflict within the KNU remains and it is not quite sure that whether the fragile unity could be maintained for long, as the KNU front-line commanders were said to be wary of Mutu’s all-out peace initiative.
According to Saw Greh Moo, who is a Karen community activist and an observer at the 16th KNU Congress, “I spoke with seven senior and mid-level military officers in the Karen National Liberation Army to try to understand their opinions and positions on the current peace process. Out the seven, only one expressed optimism for the future, while the rest are displeased and distrustful of the way their leaders have handled the peace process and negotiations with the Burma government. With this in mind, you certainly get an understanding that the foundation of the peace process remains very fragile inside the KNU.”
The 14 NCA-signatory and non-signatory EAOs meeting could agree upon the federal union formation principles and also the Panglong Manual which would be the political guidelines of the ethnic nationalities, but the question of disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration (DDR) and security sector reform (SSR) or security issue still needs to be ironed out between them, as each side – signatory and non-signatory – has blue print of its own.
The UNFC meeting on the other hand was able to compromise on the crucial question of whether the SSPP and KIO – two strongest EAOs among the UNFC – would follow the Pangkham-initiated non-NCA-based peace process trend or abandoned the NCA line of approach altogether, which the UNFC is in the process of negotiating with the government with its nine-point proposal to amend the NCA, so that it could sign. The compromise, accordingly is to employ double-track approach, which is to work militarily with Pangkham pact – Northern Alliance – Burma (NA-B) plus UWSA – and politically with the UNFC.
The NA-B is made up of KIA, MNDAA, TNLA and AA, which has been delivering ongoing running battles in the northern part of Shan State.
Suu Kyi’s peace talk with the rural youth is seen as an ad hoc stunt by many Burma watchers and observers without much substance in it, as she took the opportunity only to reiterate its message of signing the NCA and enter the Union Peace Conference – 21st Century Panglong (UPC-21CP), without addressing the need to create a level playing field.
On April 17, Pyidaungsu Institute’s (PI) Director Khuensai Jaiyane was interviewed by the BBC Burmese section in relation with the President Htin Kyaw’s explanation, during his Burmese new year message to the people, regarding the problematic in amending the military-drawn constitution, where he said it was a delicate issue which the government is trying to handle with special care.
Khuensai pointed out the necessity of close cooperation  between the government, Miliatry and EAOs like during the tenure of former President Thein Sein, where unnecessary red tape were eliminated and “one stop service” mechanism establishment, to handle arising problems effectively in the NCA-based peace process. In other words, he seems to be saying that the present NLD regime handling of the peace process is ineffective.
He explicitly stressed that the government and Military should cooperate and nurture close relationship, with common interpretation on the NCA together with the EAOs and not differently as it is now the case. Apart from that, he said the non-signatory EAOs should give the NCA a try first, before concluding that the NCA is not working.
Given such a backdrop, the bird’s eye view of Burma conflict spectrum and its peace process undertakings could be viewed as extremely disturbing and convoluted. A senior SSPP functionary told this writer that the UNFC couldn’t consider on what to do next if its nine-point proposal to amend the NCA is ignored. Likewise, the 8 EAOs that signed the NCA wouldn’t  know what to do, except to ask the non-signatories to join the signing of NCA. The government, on the other hand, cannot move forward with its UPC-21CP with just 8 EAOs, when the remaining 13 EAOs are still left out, particularly the with strongest EAOs, in Shan and Kachin States, making up with two-third of the from the whole estimate 100,000 ethnic resistance troops. And finally, the Military doesn’t know how to resolve the problems politically, apart from just military operations and offensives.
For now, even though the State Counselor and Commander-in-Chief have sent messages to the people on the eve of the Burmese new year on April 17 that this year should be the year of peace, all available data and indications are pointing toward heading to a more uncertain, politically troubled waters and would be forced to muddle through without clear and precise goal.
Given such circumstances, only with determined political will, coupled with altruism as the cornerstone think-pattern embraced by all major stakeholders – government, Military and EAOs – would be able to pull us out of this vicious circle of violence and hatred, as there is hardly any other way out.

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: Rohingya Crisis In Southeast Asia: The Jihadi Dimension – Analysis – Eurasia Review
A Journal of Analysis and News

A Rohingya youth sleeps on the street in Burma. Photo Source: Queen Mary, University of London.
ByRSIS
The Rohingya problem is an old one. After nearly 70 years, the problem has been greatly aggravated by rising sectarian violence by radical Buddhist groups against Muslims and the involvement of transnational terrorist groups such as Al Qaeda and the self-proclaimed Islamic State.
By Jasminder Singh*
The Rohingya crisis in Myanmar has a long history. Following Burma’s independence in January 1948, a Rohingya-based insurgency broke out in northern Arakan, now known as Rakhine State, with the aim of integrating with East Pakistan, present-day Bangladesh. By the late 1950s, the mujahidin-oriented insurgency was crushed by the Burmese Army. Since the 1970s, various Islamist groups have surfaced to take up the cudgels of liberation, either to gain greater autonomy or outright independence.
The key groups championing the Rohingya struggle include the Rohingya Solidarity Organisation, the Arakan Rohingya Islamic Front and Arakan National Liberation Organisation. Following the success of the Afghan Mujahidin in defeating the Soviets, since the 1980s, extremist jihadi-oriented groups have espoused violent struggle against Myanmar, often with the support of Af-Pak based radical groups and by the late 1990s onwards, groups affiliated with Al Qaeda and Islamic State.
Even though Al Qaeda had existed since the late 1990s, it only began to show interest in the plight of the Rohingya since 2013. Hence, at the 12th anniversary of the 911 Incident, Ayman al-Zawahiri referred to the persecution of the Rohingya in Myanmar. In August 2014, Zawahiri launched the Al Qaeda of the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS) which included Myanmar as its area of operations.
In 2014, Al Qaeda’s affiliates also began expressing support for the need for jihad in Myanmar in support of the Rohingya. In 2015, a key Al Qaeda affiliate in Africa and South Asia, the al-Shabaab and the Pakistan Taliban, respectively, expressed support for the Rohingya, calling for jihad against the Buddhists in Myanmar for supposedly persecuting Muslims.
Abu Zar Burmi, an ethnic Rohingya who emerged as a leading jihadist in Pakistan, also called for revenge against the persecution of the Rohingya. Equally important was the support of Al Qaeda’s affiliates in Bangladesh for a jihad in Myanmar, with one of them believed to be training Rohingya for combat operations.
At the launch of Islamic State (IS) in July 2014, the self-proclaimed caliph, Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi called for the need of a jihad in Myanmar. The 14th edition of Dabiq quoted Shaykh Abu Ibrahim al-Hanif, the amir of the Islamic fighters in Bengal, talking of a jihad in Bangladesh as a stepping stone to Myanmar. There were numerous occasions when pro-Islamic State groups in Bangladesh called for a jihad in Myanmar to support the Rohingya, including the Jama’tul Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB), the key IS affiliate.
Pro-IS Southeast Asian groups, especially in Indonesia have also joined the call to punish Myanmar for persecuting the Rohingya. In November 2016, an Indonesian pro-IS group planned to bomb the Myanmar embassy in Jakarta, just as the Malaysian police detained an Indonesian en route to Myanmar to support the Rohingya.
Pro-IS groups in Pakistan and India, such as the Lashkar-e-Toiba and the Indian Mujahidin, have also supported the call for jihad in Myanmar. The Rohingya are also reported to be operating with Southeast Asian jihadist groups, as in Poso, Indonesia to support pro-IS groups and in South Mindanao as part of the Wilayah Philippines under Emir Isnilon Hapilon.
Several factors explain the decision of Al Qaeda and IS to support the Rohingya. First, both groups can no longer ignore the plight of the Rohingya as this has been spotlighted in the mainstream and new media in a big way since 2012. To ignore a cause celebre of Muslim persecution would be self-defeating.
Second, as both IS and Al Qaeda are under pressure from coalition forces, both have decided to attack their ‘Far’ and ‘Near’ enemies rather than simply focus on the former as it did in the past.
Third, it is driven by the rising competition between Al Qaeda and IS for influence, especially in areas where there are conflicts afflicting Sunni Muslims. It is not just to become the preeminent global jihadi group but more important, due to the rising importance of South and Southeast Asia as safe havens, sources of finance and even targets for operations, especially as the Middle East recedes in importance.
Finally, and in particular for Al Qaeda, it is a golden opportunity to recover from its decline globally and being displaced by IS since 2014. By championing the Rohingya cause, it hopes to reverse its fortunes, which it has succeeded somewhat in Pakistan and Afghanistan. In this regard, both Al Qaeda and IS are not merely looking for supporters for their ideological and jihadi cause but also believe that they have a legitimate excuse to support persecuted Muslims in Myanmar.
It looks as though a front for prolonged jihad somewhat akin to southern Philippines and southern Thailand is taking shape in northwest Myanmar. Al Qaeda and IS have capitalised on the image of a persecuted Rohingya community ripe for recruitment and their support for the Rohingya has upped the ante of jihadi violence in Myanmar. Through direct and indirect support for the Rohingya, the seeds of jihadi doctrine and ideology are being planted and that may put the community on an irreversible trajectory of violence.
Both transnational terrorist groups have succeeded in seeding radicalism and terrorism in Myanmar and the surrounding region. The planting of a Muslim insurgency in Myanmar through the Rohingya crisis will take decades to overcome, especially since a haven for Rohingya has emerged at the Bangladeshi border.
As the October 2016 jihadi attack in north western Rakhine State by an Al Qaeda cum IS-supported group, the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army previously known as Haraqa al-Yaqin, demonstrated, jihadi violence can no longer be handled by Myanmar alone. Myanmar would need to solve its Rohingya problem through political accommodation while at the same time enhancing counter-terrorism cooperation with South and Southeast Asian states.
Jasminder Singhis a Senior Analyst with the International Centre for Political Violence and Terrorism Research (ICPVTR), a constituent unit of the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies (RSIS), Nanyang Technological University, Singapore.
RSIS Commentaries are intended to provide timely and, where appropriate, policy relevant background and analysis of contemporary developments. The views of the author/s are their own and do not represent the official position of the S.Rajaratnam School of International Studies (RSIS), NTU, which produces the Commentaries. For any republishing of RSIS articles, consent must be obtained from S.Rajaratnam School of International Studies (RSIS).
Richard 147 is correct in stating that “The Bengali-Muslim ( Rohingya) have been terrorists since 1942” when the British ruled most of South Asia including the current countries of Myanmar, India, Pakistan and Bangladesh. In early 1942, as the Japanese were advancing towards Arakan (Ralkine state in Myanmar), the British formed a battalion of Muslims – called the Bengali V Force – and gave them weapons. As the British suddenly retreated – the Bengali Muslims (now so-called Rohingya) quickly used the weapons – not against the Japanese -but they used them to slaughter thousands and thousands of Buddhists and burned down all of the Buddhist villages, pagodas, temples and monasteries in the Maungdaw and Buthidaung areas. About 30,000 Rakhine Buddhist were killed in this absolute genocide, hundreds of villages were burned down, and around 100,000 Rakhine Buddhists were ethnically cleansed from their ancestral lands. By late 1942 the whole Maungdaw-Buthidaung region was firmly in the hands of Bengali Muslims – who were now well armed with abandoned Japanese and British weapons. Active Islamic Terrorism and de facto ethnic cleansing of Rakhine Buddhists and Bengali Hindus continues to this day in the area.
In the book Weapons of Mass Migration: Forced Displacement, Coercion and Foreign Policy, Kelly M. Greenhill, US foreign policy consultant, ..coercive engineered migration is a strategy which has been used by governments to gain concessions from other governments. In other words, (western imperialist governments, George Soros and their islamic collaborators) often use (Bengali Muslim) refugees as weapons in order to exert pressure on other governments (Myanmar) for political ends (to contain China and spread islam)…
In the 19th century the British Empire organised the mass migration of Bengali Muslims to Burma to work plantations in the predominantly Buddhist Rakhine State. The purpose of the migration was to create an artificial ruling class that would depend on the protection of the British Empire. The result was more than a century of tension with the indigenous Buddhist inhabitants and the Muslim settlers, a tension that has led to the ethnic cleansing of today, whereby Takfiri fanatics, financed by Pakistan and Saudi Arabia are committing genocide through muslim Bangladesh against local Buddhist peasants with the full complicity of UN, ‘human rights’ organizations and noble laureates, NGOs (George Soros) and the mass media as part of a US geostrategic initiative to “kossovise” the Rakhine State by separating it from Myanmar, thereby securing a foothold for Western neo-colonial interests in the highly strategic Bay of Bengal. The so-called ‘Rohingya crisis’ attests to a new phase in imperialist policy; namely, the ruthless weaponization of the refugee….
http://www.scribd.com/doc/122185703/CONSPIRACY-OF-TERRORISTS-TO-CREATE-AN-INDEPENDENT-STATE-OUT-OF-ARAKAN-RAKHINE-STATE-IN-MYANMAR-AND-SOME-DISTRICTS-OF-BANGLADESHTerrorist groups are conspiring to establish a new country with some districts of Bangladesh and Arakan (Rakhine) state (of Myanmar). The activities are lead by Rohingya Solidarity Organization (RSO) leader Dr. Yunus. Captured terrorists revealed that a foreign intelligence agency is instigating a number of terrorist outfits to stand together by the side of Myanmar Rohingya to establish a new country “Independent Newrosia”. It was revealed that the conspiracy to create independent “Newrosia” state is getting fullest support from the Muslim population in Arakan province in Myanmar, as well as some of the Muslim nations in the world
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Name*
Email*
Website

Russian President Vladimir Putin’s expanded invasion of Ukraine has rapidly transformed into a war of attrition. Looming behind Moscow’s problems
The Indian author final paragraph regarding escalation, might have been taken more seriously, if it were not for the presence…
The longer the war prolonged in Ukraine on behest of US-NATO the greater the saber-rattling by President Putin of a…
Ukraine Russia war is rightly developing into a “Cat-and-Mouse Game” is well analysed. War propagandists have been active on both…
Stop blaming others. World is not stupid, You are a terror factory, even the peace loving tali an know it.…
UN since last few years has been good in maintaining statics only on various issues while ‘Failing to maintain World…

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-20 14:08Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: IDEBET: Situs Slot Online Gampang Menang & Slot Gacor Terpercaya 2024
Belanja di App banyak untungnya:
Untuk bantuan silakan,Klik disini


IDEBETSitus Judi Slot Online Gampang Menang Dengan Winrate RTP Slot Tertinggi, Menyediakan Ribuan PermainanSlot Gacor2024 Paling Populer, Teraman Dan Terpercaya!

Title: “So long as the Burmese Military tries to annihilate us, clashes will continue”: Arakan Army deputy chief of staff | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
The Arakan Army was established in April 2009, declaring its mission as safeguarding the Rakhine (Arakan) peoples right to self-determination, and protecting the cultural heritage and identity of the Rakhine ethnicity. The Arakan Army (AA) is one of the four members of the Northern Alliance – a coalition that emerged in November 2016 during a joint offensive against the Tatmadaw in Muse township. The alliance, which consists of the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA), the Kachin Independence Army (KIA) and the Arakan Army (AA), has continued carrying out coordinated attacks on Tatmadaw and government outposts in northern Shan State. The alliance has lobbied for both the United Wa State Army (UWSA) and China to be given observer status in the peace process. None of the four factions of the Northern Alliance have signed the nationwide ceasefire agreement (NCA).
Freelance reporter Min Tayza Aung interviewed Brigadier General Nyo Tun Aung, deputy chief of staff of the Arakan Army, earlier this month for the Mon News Agency. This interview has been edited for clarity and length.
Q: The Arakan Army celebrates its eighth anniversary on April 10. How do you plan to commemorate this day?
A: We don’t plan to hold any big celebrations this year. We will only issue a formal message from the Arakan Army commander-in-chief and hold Arakan Army Day celebrations in respective military areas with local and overseas ULA [United League of Arakan] members. In some places, we will broadcast a speech. A football competition was held near Laiza area recently to mark the 8th anniversary of the Arakan Army. We plan to hold a grand celebration on the 10th anniversary in 2019.Q: What has the Arakan Army achieved over the past eight years? What are your plans going forward?A: The Arakan Army’s greatest achievement has been to receive the support, trust and hopes of nearly all Arakan people. Also, other ethnic armed organizations respect the Arakan Army and big countries, including China, know the leaders of the Arakan Army and our political aims. You can say this is the success of the ULA/AA.We didn’t reach this stage within just a day. It wasn’t the effort of a single person. We have reached this point after sacrifices of blood, sweat and lives. We haven’t gotten anything for free and we have faced tons of challenges, difficulties and obstacles, as well as opposition everywhere and at every stage. We have been able to succeed so far because we have continuously strived hard in unity.But we shouldn’t feel content with this current situation. We can only say that we have reached our goal of after the Rakhita (Arakan) directive and Arakan dream, which were set down by the United League of Arakan (ULA), has been achieved. We haven’t reached that goal yet, but it’s not as far away as it was in the past.Q: The UNFC [the United Nationalities Federal Council, an ethnic umbrella organization] has encouraged members of the Northern Alliance, including the Arakan Army, to take part in the nationwide ceasefire agreement (NCA). Why have you decided to deviate from the NCA and support the UWSA’s plan to establish a new peace process instead?A: We have been driven into this situation because of the political swindling and dishonesty of the previous government, as well as the political restrictions of the current government format. The continuous chauvinism and offensives by the Burmese Military is aimed at annihilating ethnic armed organizations [through] military pressure, neglecting equality and allying with some ethnic armed organization while fighting with others. The continuous focus on the six-point peace policy is a problem.Q: The Northern Alliance and the Peace Commission are negotiating some terminology, like “armed struggle” versus “armed conflict”. Are there any plans to move towards the NCA peace process after this terminology debate is resolved?A: We, the Northern Alliance, plan to meet with the Peace Commission led by U Tin Myo Win in a couple of days under arrangements made by the People’s Republic of China. The Peace Commission offered to meet us through the People’s Republic of China (Yunnan Province route). The date has already been set and we have already decided to attend the meeting. We need to wait and see what will happen at the meeting.[Editor’s note, although this meeting was planned before Thingyan, it has not occurred]Translated by Thida LinnEdited by Laignee Barron
A: We don’t plan to hold any big celebrations this year. We will only issue a formal message from the Arakan Army commander-in-chief and hold Arakan Army Day celebrations in respective military areas with local and overseas ULA [United League of Arakan] members. In some places, we will broadcast a speech. A football competition was held near Laiza area recently to mark the 8th anniversary of the Arakan Army. We plan to hold a grand celebration on the 10th anniversary in 2019.
Q: What has the Arakan Army achieved over the past eight years? What are your plans going forward?
A: The Arakan Army’s greatest achievement has been to receive the support, trust and hopes of nearly all Arakan people. Also, other ethnic armed organizations respect the Arakan Army and big countries, including China, know the leaders of the Arakan Army and our political aims. You can say this is the success of the ULA/AA.
We didn’t reach this stage within just a day. It wasn’t the effort of a single person. We have reached this point after sacrifices of blood, sweat and lives. We haven’t gotten anything for free and we have faced tons of challenges, difficulties and obstacles, as well as opposition everywhere and at every stage. We have been able to succeed so far because we have continuously strived hard in unity.
But we shouldn’t feel content with this current situation. We can only say that we have reached our goal of after the Rakhita (Arakan) directive and Arakan dream, which were set down by the United League of Arakan (ULA), has been achieved. We haven’t reached that goal yet, but it’s not as far away as it was in the past.
Q: The UNFC [the United Nationalities Federal Council, an ethnic umbrella organization] has encouraged members of the Northern Alliance, including the Arakan Army, to take part in the nationwide ceasefire agreement (NCA). Why have you decided to deviate from the NCA and support the UWSA’s plan to establish a new peace process instead?
A: We have been driven into this situation because of the political swindling and dishonesty of the previous government, as well as the political restrictions of the current government format. The continuous chauvinism and offensives by the Burmese Military is aimed at annihilating ethnic armed organizations [through] military pressure, neglecting equality and allying with some ethnic armed organization while fighting with others. The continuous focus on the six-point peace policy is a problem.
Q: The Northern Alliance and the Peace Commission are negotiating some terminology, like “armed struggle” versus “armed conflict”. Are there any plans to move towards the NCA peace process after this terminology debate is resolved?
A: We, the Northern Alliance, plan to meet with the Peace Commission led by U Tin Myo Win in a couple of days under arrangements made by the People’s Republic of China. The Peace Commission offered to meet us through the People’s Republic of China (Yunnan Province route). The date has already been set and we have already decided to attend the meeting. We need to wait and see what will happen at the meeting.
[Editor’s note, although this meeting was planned before Thingyan, it has not occurred]
Translated by Thida LinnEdited by Laignee Barron

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: “So long as the Burmese Military tries to annihilate us, clashes will continue”: Arakan Army deputy chief of staff | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
The Arakan Army was established in April 2009, declaring its mission as safeguarding the Rakhine (Arakan) peoples right to self-determination, and protecting the cultural heritage and identity of the Rakhine ethnicity. The Arakan Army (AA) is one of the four members of the Northern Alliance – a coalition that emerged in November 2016 during a joint offensive against the Tatmadaw in Muse township. The alliance, which consists of the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA), the Kachin Independence Army (KIA) and the Arakan Army (AA), has continued carrying out coordinated attacks on Tatmadaw and government outposts in northern Shan State. The alliance has lobbied for both the United Wa State Army (UWSA) and China to be given observer status in the peace process. None of the four factions of the Northern Alliance have signed the nationwide ceasefire agreement (NCA).
Freelance reporter Min Tayza Aung interviewed Brigadier General Nyo Tun Aung, deputy chief of staff of the Arakan Army, earlier this month for the Mon News Agency. This interview has been edited for clarity and length.
Q: The Arakan Army celebrates its eighth anniversary on April 10. How do you plan to commemorate this day?
A: We don’t plan to hold any big celebrations this year. We will only issue a formal message from the Arakan Army commander-in-chief and hold Arakan Army Day celebrations in respective military areas with local and overseas ULA [United League of Arakan] members. In some places, we will broadcast a speech. A football competition was held near Laiza area recently to mark the 8th anniversary of the Arakan Army. We plan to hold a grand celebration on the 10th anniversary in 2019.Q: What has the Arakan Army achieved over the past eight years? What are your plans going forward?A: The Arakan Army’s greatest achievement has been to receive the support, trust and hopes of nearly all Arakan people. Also, other ethnic armed organizations respect the Arakan Army and big countries, including China, know the leaders of the Arakan Army and our political aims. You can say this is the success of the ULA/AA.We didn’t reach this stage within just a day. It wasn’t the effort of a single person. We have reached this point after sacrifices of blood, sweat and lives. We haven’t gotten anything for free and we have faced tons of challenges, difficulties and obstacles, as well as opposition everywhere and at every stage. We have been able to succeed so far because we have continuously strived hard in unity.But we shouldn’t feel content with this current situation. We can only say that we have reached our goal of after the Rakhita (Arakan) directive and Arakan dream, which were set down by the United League of Arakan (ULA), has been achieved. We haven’t reached that goal yet, but it’s not as far away as it was in the past.Q: The UNFC [the United Nationalities Federal Council, an ethnic umbrella organization] has encouraged members of the Northern Alliance, including the Arakan Army, to take part in the nationwide ceasefire agreement (NCA). Why have you decided to deviate from the NCA and support the UWSA’s plan to establish a new peace process instead?A: We have been driven into this situation because of the political swindling and dishonesty of the previous government, as well as the political restrictions of the current government format. The continuous chauvinism and offensives by the Burmese Military is aimed at annihilating ethnic armed organizations [through] military pressure, neglecting equality and allying with some ethnic armed organization while fighting with others. The continuous focus on the six-point peace policy is a problem.Q: The Northern Alliance and the Peace Commission are negotiating some terminology, like “armed struggle” versus “armed conflict”. Are there any plans to move towards the NCA peace process after this terminology debate is resolved?A: We, the Northern Alliance, plan to meet with the Peace Commission led by U Tin Myo Win in a couple of days under arrangements made by the People’s Republic of China. The Peace Commission offered to meet us through the People’s Republic of China (Yunnan Province route). The date has already been set and we have already decided to attend the meeting. We need to wait and see what will happen at the meeting.[Editor’s note, although this meeting was planned before Thingyan, it has not occurred]Translated by Thida LinnEdited by Laignee Barron
A: We don’t plan to hold any big celebrations this year. We will only issue a formal message from the Arakan Army commander-in-chief and hold Arakan Army Day celebrations in respective military areas with local and overseas ULA [United League of Arakan] members. In some places, we will broadcast a speech. A football competition was held near Laiza area recently to mark the 8th anniversary of the Arakan Army. We plan to hold a grand celebration on the 10th anniversary in 2019.
Q: What has the Arakan Army achieved over the past eight years? What are your plans going forward?
A: The Arakan Army’s greatest achievement has been to receive the support, trust and hopes of nearly all Arakan people. Also, other ethnic armed organizations respect the Arakan Army and big countries, including China, know the leaders of the Arakan Army and our political aims. You can say this is the success of the ULA/AA.
We didn’t reach this stage within just a day. It wasn’t the effort of a single person. We have reached this point after sacrifices of blood, sweat and lives. We haven’t gotten anything for free and we have faced tons of challenges, difficulties and obstacles, as well as opposition everywhere and at every stage. We have been able to succeed so far because we have continuously strived hard in unity.
But we shouldn’t feel content with this current situation. We can only say that we have reached our goal of after the Rakhita (Arakan) directive and Arakan dream, which were set down by the United League of Arakan (ULA), has been achieved. We haven’t reached that goal yet, but it’s not as far away as it was in the past.
Q: The UNFC [the United Nationalities Federal Council, an ethnic umbrella organization] has encouraged members of the Northern Alliance, including the Arakan Army, to take part in the nationwide ceasefire agreement (NCA). Why have you decided to deviate from the NCA and support the UWSA’s plan to establish a new peace process instead?
A: We have been driven into this situation because of the political swindling and dishonesty of the previous government, as well as the political restrictions of the current government format. The continuous chauvinism and offensives by the Burmese Military is aimed at annihilating ethnic armed organizations [through] military pressure, neglecting equality and allying with some ethnic armed organization while fighting with others. The continuous focus on the six-point peace policy is a problem.
Q: The Northern Alliance and the Peace Commission are negotiating some terminology, like “armed struggle” versus “armed conflict”. Are there any plans to move towards the NCA peace process after this terminology debate is resolved?
A: We, the Northern Alliance, plan to meet with the Peace Commission led by U Tin Myo Win in a couple of days under arrangements made by the People’s Republic of China. The Peace Commission offered to meet us through the People’s Republic of China (Yunnan Province route). The date has already been set and we have already decided to attend the meeting. We need to wait and see what will happen at the meeting.
[Editor’s note, although this meeting was planned before Thingyan, it has not occurred]
Translated by Thida LinnEdited by Laignee Barron

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: No title found


Title: Loading...


Title: 3 civilians killed in clashes between Burmese army, TNLA | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
Three civilians were shot dead in northern Shan State’s Kyaukme Township during armed clashes between Burmese government forces and the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) on Sunday, according to an MP from the Shan Nationalities League for Democracy (SNLD).
MP Sai Htun Naing, who represents Kyaukme Township Constituency No 2, said that the fighting took place in Jarng Huang tract about a half mile from Kyaukme Township. He confirmed that three people had been killed.
“The three victims were local villagers,” he told Shan Herald on Monday. “They were truck drivers.”
Sai Htun Naing said that eye-witnesses had informed him that the three victims were found wearing TNLA uniform shirts. However, he questioned whether the shirts had been put on before or after the men’s deaths.Other local sources told Shan Herald that the three victims were identified as Sai Sarng Lwin and Sai Win Kyaing from Tawsarng tract, and Sai Ai Woon from Jarng Huang.No details of how the killings occurred have been forthcoming by the time of press.Since 2012, fighting has regularly broken out between Burmese armed forces and TNLA troops. The Ta’ang or Palaung rebel faction is among those armed groups excluded from signing the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement by the government in 2015.According to Myanmar Peace Monitor, there were 309 clashes between the two armies in 2016, most of which occurred in northern Shan State towns such as Naung Cho, Kyaukme, Hsipaw, Kutkai and Namhsan.By Shan Herald Agency for News (SHAN)
Sai Htun Naing said that eye-witnesses had informed him that the three victims were found wearing TNLA uniform shirts. However, he questioned whether the shirts had been put on before or after the men’s deaths.
Other local sources told Shan Herald that the three victims were identified as Sai Sarng Lwin and Sai Win Kyaing from Tawsarng tract, and Sai Ai Woon from Jarng Huang.
No details of how the killings occurred have been forthcoming by the time of press.
Since 2012, fighting has regularly broken out between Burmese armed forces and TNLA troops. The Ta’ang or Palaung rebel faction is among those armed groups excluded from signing the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement by the government in 2015.
According to Myanmar Peace Monitor, there were 309 clashes between the two armies in 2016, most of which occurred in northern Shan State towns such as Naung Cho, Kyaukme, Hsipaw, Kutkai and Namhsan.
By Shan Herald Agency for News (SHAN)

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: UNHCR Web Archive


Title: Northern Alliance establishes a new negotiating body to meet with govt | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
Following a meeting at the powerful Wa Army’s summit, the four Northern Alliance members announced they will no longer meet with the government separately. Instead, they will agree to meet only jointly via a new committee formed at Pangkham, the United Wa State Army’s (UWSA) stronghold, during a summit from April 15-19.
The Union Political Dialogue Negotiation Committee (UPDNC) includes seven ethnic armed organizations. The Shan State Army (SSA), the National Democratic Alliance Army (NDAA) and the UWSA have joined the four original Northern Alliance groups – the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), the Arakan Army (AA), the Kachin Independence Army (KIA) and the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA) – to form the new negotiating committee.
“We will not meet [the government’s peace commission] separately anymore. Only the committee formed at Pangkham will participate in discussions,” an official from the UWSA who attended the recent meeting told S.H.A.N.
UWSA leader Bao Youxiang urged the ethnic armed organizations to cooperate and find strength in unity. He told the attending groups that ethnic groups have formed many political alliances in the past but they all disappeared due to a lack of common political direction.The government’s peace commission had been planning on meeting with the TNLA, the AA and the MNDAA before Thingyan, but the meeting has not yet occurred. Previous attempts to meet with the Northern Alliance groups individually also faltered.Translated by Thida LinnEdited by Laignee Barron
UWSA leader Bao Youxiang urged the ethnic armed organizations to cooperate and find strength in unity. He told the attending groups that ethnic groups have formed many political alliances in the past but they all disappeared due to a lack of common political direction.
The government’s peace commission had been planning on meeting with the TNLA, the AA and the MNDAA before Thingyan, but the meeting has not yet occurred. Previous attempts to meet with the Northern Alliance groups individually also faltered.
Translated by Thida LinnEdited by Laignee Barron

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: Northern Alliance establishes a new negotiating body to meet with govt | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
Following a meeting at the powerful Wa Army’s summit, the four Northern Alliance members announced they will no longer meet with the government separately. Instead, they will agree to meet only jointly via a new committee formed at Pangkham, the United Wa State Army’s (UWSA) stronghold, during a summit from April 15-19.
The Union Political Dialogue Negotiation Committee (UPDNC) includes seven ethnic armed organizations. The Shan State Army (SSA), the National Democratic Alliance Army (NDAA) and the UWSA have joined the four original Northern Alliance groups – the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), the Arakan Army (AA), the Kachin Independence Army (KIA) and the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA) – to form the new negotiating committee.
“We will not meet [the government’s peace commission] separately anymore. Only the committee formed at Pangkham will participate in discussions,” an official from the UWSA who attended the recent meeting told S.H.A.N.
UWSA leader Bao Youxiang urged the ethnic armed organizations to cooperate and find strength in unity. He told the attending groups that ethnic groups have formed many political alliances in the past but they all disappeared due to a lack of common political direction.The government’s peace commission had been planning on meeting with the TNLA, the AA and the MNDAA before Thingyan, but the meeting has not yet occurred. Previous attempts to meet with the Northern Alliance groups individually also faltered.Translated by Thida LinnEdited by Laignee Barron
UWSA leader Bao Youxiang urged the ethnic armed organizations to cooperate and find strength in unity. He told the attending groups that ethnic groups have formed many political alliances in the past but they all disappeared due to a lack of common political direction.
The government’s peace commission had been planning on meeting with the TNLA, the AA and the MNDAA before Thingyan, but the meeting has not yet occurred. Previous attempts to meet with the Northern Alliance groups individually also faltered.
Translated by Thida LinnEdited by Laignee Barron

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-20 14:09Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Questions over UNFC members attending Pangkham summit | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
The New Mon State Party (NMSP) will not attend the summit meeting of ethnic armed organizations (EAOs) scheduled to be held in Pangkham, the general headquarters of United Wa State Party (UWSP).
NMSP Vice-Chairman Nai Hong Sar said that they received an invitation to attend the Pangkham summit of seven EAOs which are non-signatories of Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement (NCA)to be held on April 15 but they could not attend this meeting as they were preoccupied with other meetings.
“We received an invitation to attend the Pangkham summit but we cannot yet attend as it coincided with Thingyan water festival and we are not free at that time. After the Thingyan festival we will have our Central Committee meeting. So we cannot go yet there,” Nai Hong Sar said.
He added that UNFC delegation led by him would go to the UWSP HQ for a meeting with them at an appropriate time.Mizzima contacted Khoo Oo Reh from the Karenni National Progressive Party (KNPP) but he did not answer a question as to whether his party would attend this summit.The Kachin Independence Organization (KIO) and Shan State Progressive Party (SSPP) attended the EAO summit held in February but they did not confirm whether they would attend this summit again or not when contacted.Col. Pan Pha from SSPP said that he learned that they were invited to attend this Pangkham summit but he did not know whether SSPP would attend this meeting or not.These two EAOs, KIO and SSPP, signed the Pangkham Summit Agreement but they agreed at the UNFC Central Executive Committee emergency meeting held in Chiang Mai, Thailand from April 3 to 5, not to leave the UNFC but continue to go along the NCA path.Ta Pan Hla from T’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) said recently to Mizzima that at the meeting which would be held on April 15 they would discuss forming a ‘Political Dialogue Committee’ which was agreed by seven EAOs at the last summit meeting held in February this year.These seven EAOs are the UWSP, SSPP, KIO, TNLA, National Democratic Alliance Army (NDAA), Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army-Kokang (MNDAA) and Arakan Army (AA).
He added that UNFC delegation led by him would go to the UWSP HQ for a meeting with them at an appropriate time.
Mizzima contacted Khoo Oo Reh from the Karenni National Progressive Party (KNPP) but he did not answer a question as to whether his party would attend this summit.
The Kachin Independence Organization (KIO) and Shan State Progressive Party (SSPP) attended the EAO summit held in February but they did not confirm whether they would attend this summit again or not when contacted.
Col. Pan Pha from SSPP said that he learned that they were invited to attend this Pangkham summit but he did not know whether SSPP would attend this meeting or not.
These two EAOs, KIO and SSPP, signed the Pangkham Summit Agreement but they agreed at the UNFC Central Executive Committee emergency meeting held in Chiang Mai, Thailand from April 3 to 5, not to leave the UNFC but continue to go along the NCA path.
Ta Pan Hla from T’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) said recently to Mizzima that at the meeting which would be held on April 15 they would discuss forming a ‘Political Dialogue Committee’ which was agreed by seven EAOs at the last summit meeting held in February this year.
These seven EAOs are the UWSP, SSPP, KIO, TNLA, National Democratic Alliance Army (NDAA), Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army-Kokang (MNDAA) and Arakan Army (AA).

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: 
Myanmar-China border trade rises in FY 2016-17 - Xinhua | English.news.cn

YANGON, April 20 (Xinhua) -- Border trade between Myanmar and China increased by over 30 million U.S. dollars in the last fiscal year 2016-2017 which ended in March, according to the Myanmar Ministry of Commerce Thursday.
The bilateral border trade reached 5.967 billion dollars in the 2016-2017 fiscal year, while that of the previous fiscal year 2015-2016 amounted to 5.936 billion dollars.
The four border gates linking China are Muse in northern Shan state, Lwejel in Kachin state, Chin Shwehaw in northeastern Shan state and Kanpite Tee in Kachin state, of which Muse border gate stands the largest trade transaction zone between the two neighbors.
The Myanmar-China border trade dropped in recent months after an armed conflict hit Myanmar's Kokang region in northeastern Shan state early this year and border trade through Muse was temporarily suspended.
Except dropping by 292.57 million dollars to 5.085 billion dollars in trade value through Muse gate in 2016-17, other border gates made up the overall increased value.
Myanmar's export to China through border trade reached 4.212 billion dollars.
Myanmar mostly exports rice to China, followed by other products such as agricultural products, jade and raw materials.
The total bilateral trade value through both normal and border trade reached 9.446 billion dollars in the first 11 months of the fiscal year 2016-2017.
Myanmar has 15 border trade points with the neighboring China, Thailand, India and Bangladesh.
The Myanmar government has planned to open more border trade points under the second short-term five-year National Comprehensive Development Plan which spans from 2016-2017 to 2020-2021.
YANGON, April 20 (Xinhua) -- Border trade between Myanmar and China increased by over 30 million U.S. dollars in the last fiscal year 2016-2017 which ended in March, according to the Myanmar Ministry of Commerce Thursday.
The bilateral border trade reached 5.967 billion dollars in the 2016-2017 fiscal year, while that of the previous fiscal year 2015-2016 amounted to 5.936 billion dollars.
The four border gates linking China are Muse in northern Shan state, Lwejel in Kachin state, Chin Shwehaw in northeastern Shan state and Kanpite Tee in Kachin state, of which Muse border gate stands the largest trade transaction zone between the two neighbors.
The Myanmar-China border trade dropped in recent months after an armed conflict hit Myanmar's Kokang region in northeastern Shan state early this year and border trade through Muse was temporarily suspended.
Except dropping by 292.57 million dollars to 5.085 billion dollars in trade value through Muse gate in 2016-17, other border gates made up the overall increased value.
Myanmar's export to China through border trade reached 4.212 billion dollars.
Myanmar mostly exports rice to China, followed by other products such as agricultural products, jade and raw materials.
The total bilateral trade value through both normal and border trade reached 9.446 billion dollars in the first 11 months of the fiscal year 2016-2017.
Myanmar has 15 border trade points with the neighboring China, Thailand, India and Bangladesh.
The Myanmar government has planned to open more border trade points under the second short-term five-year National Comprehensive Development Plan which spans from 2016-2017 to 2020-2021.
Copyright © 2000 - 2015 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.

Title: UNHCR Web Archive


Title: UNHCR Web Archive


Title: Myanmar Allows Regional-Level Political Talks to be Held in Volatile Shan State - Myanmar | ReliefWeb
Myanmar
The Myanmar government will allow ethnic organizations in Shan state to hold regional-level political discussions on April 23-25 in the run-up to national-level talks, a military official said on Thursday.
But the government has decided not to permit preliminary talks among ethnic Shan groups in the volatile state where some local militias are engaged in hostilities with the national army, said Lieutenant Colonel Sai Nyin, spokesman of the RCSS.
The government military originally decided that the talks could be held in Mangpan, Monehtaw, and Nantpankhon townships, but the Restoration Council of Shan State/Shan State Army (RCSS/SSA), one of the dominant ethnic organizations in the region’s north, requested that they be held in the state capital Taunggyi because of difficulties in traveling to the others areas, he said.
“We requested that the government hold national-level political talks [for Shan State] in Taunggyi, but we haven’t received a response yet,” he told RFA’s Myanmar Service. “But the government invited us for the regional level talks in Taunggyi.
“The RCSS’s Peace Working Committee will hold a meeting today, and we will decide on whether we will participate in these talks or not, and how many representatives we will send if we attend,” Sai Nyin said.
Sai Nyin insisted that national-level political talks among Shan ethnics must be held first before the regional talks can take place, he said.
He also said he believes it is the country’s powerful military rather than the civilian government of de facto national leader Aung San Suu Kyi that is not permitting Shan ethnic discussions, because it fears that the RCSS will dominate the talks.
The RSCC has been involved in recent clashes with the government military as well as hostilities with another ethnic militia—the Ta’ang National Liberation army (TNLA)—in northern Shan state.
“But the RCSS alone can’t lead the talks,” he said. “All Shan groups and organizations together will hold them,” he said.
“We are thinking that it could be difficult to participate in regional-level talks without holding ethnic-level talks [first],” Sai Nyin said.
Five topics—politics, the economy, security, social issues, and land and environmental issues—must be hammered out among the Shan people before starting regional discussions, he said.
“We will know what Shan people want on these topics only after we hold ethnic political talks,” he said.
“The government won’t allow Shan ethnic-level political talks, only regional-level ones,” he said. “It is not good for the Shan people.”
It will also be difficult for Shan representatives to attend the second round of the government’s nationwide peace talks known as the 21st-century Panglong Conference without holding ethnic-level political talks beforehand, he said.
Aung San Suu Kyi has been preparing for the second round of talks, which the government has postponed twice since February, in a bid to end decades of ethnic separatist civil wars that have plagued the country and prevented it from further political and economic development.
Eight armed ethnic groups, including the RCSS, signed a nationwide cease-fire agreement with the government in October 2015, but the RCSS has been accused of violating the pact’s terms.
Clashes in Shan state and neighboring Kachin state have resulted in an increase in the number of internal refugees and civilian deaths and have stymied Aung San Suu Kyi’s efforts to bring warring ethnic militias to the negotiating table.
Reported by Thiha Tun for RFA’s Myanmar Service. Translated by Khet Mar. Written in English by Khet Mar.
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-20 14:09Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: China.com - Your guide on traveling and living in China
Copyright © China.com All Rights Reserved

Title: China.com - Your guide on traveling and living in China
Copyright © China.com All Rights Reserved

Title:  页面没有找到 


Title: 
Political dialogue underway in Myanmar's Shan state - Xinhua | English.news.cn

YANGON, April 24 (Xinhua) -- A three-day political dialogue at the national level is underway in Taunggyi, Myanmar's Shan state, prior to the upcoming second meeting of the country's 21st Century Panglong Peace Conference.
Representatives from the self-administered regions and zones submitted a total of 70 papers respectively related with politics, economy, land issues and natural resources and environmental conservation which were read on Sunday, the first day of the dialogue, official reports said Monday.
Minister of the State Counselor's Office U Kyaw Tint Swe called the dialogue "a milestone of the state" and a step taken by the people in the state toward peace.
Shan State Chief Minister Lin Htut noted that the first meeting of the Panglong peace conference held in August-September last year built trust among the stakeholders even though they had diverse opinions.
Present at the dialogue were representatives of some signatory armed groups to the Nationwide Ceasefire Accord (NCA), including Pa-O National liberation Organization (PNLO) and Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS) and political parties among others.
Myanmar has been holding region-oriented and race-oriented political dialogue across the nation since January.
The outcome of all regional dialogues will be submitted to the upcoming second meeting of the Panglong Peace Conference in May.
Xi inspects PLA Southern Theater Command, vows to build strong army
China's passenger aircraft C919 passes 4th high-speed taxiing test
Macron, Le Pen advance to French presidential election runoff
In pics: Awarding ceremony of Tiantan Award for BJIFF
China's passenger aircraft C919 passes fourth high-speed taxiing test
China's first cargo spacecraft successfully docks with space lab
Pigeon pair giant panda cubs named "Ban Ban", "Yue Yue"
Graphics shows launch procedure of China's first cargo spacecraft Tianzhou-1

Title: UNHCR Web Archive


Title: China Is the Peacemaker in Myanmar - Business Insider
KACHIN STATE, Myanmar — In early March, Myanmar’s government sat down with a coalition of ethnic rebel groups, including the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), trying to jump-start peace negotiations that had sputtered out after months of escalating fighting.
The meeting had been brokered by China, keen to quell the conflict along its southwestern border.
The Kachin are an ethnic group of about a million people with their own eponymous province, Kachin State, in northern Myanmar.
Ever since a coup brought a junta led by the nation’s ethnic majority Burmese to power in 1962, the Kachin have been fighting for independence as part of a constellation of conflicts that observers have called “the world’s longest-running civil war.”
The KIA is no paltry guerrilla band — it has about 10,000 men and controls much of the Myanmar-China border — and the fighting has been intense. During the past six years, the conflict has displaced more than 100,000 people, and the military hascommittedwidespread human rights violations, including extrajudicial killings, rape, and torture. With refugees spilling across the border, Beijing has repeatedly emphasized the need for peace.
But China has not always been so conciliatory. As recently as 2011, China was used to getting its way with its much smaller neighbor through force. For five decades, as the junta ruled Myanmar, China had treated its neighbor, which it officially termed a “little brother,” like a client nation, knowing that the regime was isolated by sanctions and had few other places to turn. During the past few decades, China has extracted massive quantities of timber, gold, jade, and other resources from Kachin State — much of itillegally.
But Myanmar’srecent democratizationand the changing goals of its rebel groups, from fighting off the government to winning the right to run their own states within Myanmar, have forced China to pivot.
The clearest example of China’s changing strategy is the transformation of its efforts to build the Myitsone Dam across the Irrawaddy River.
Before 2011,China planned to sink $3.5 billion into constructing one of the largest hydroelectric dams in the world to produce electricity primarily for its cities over the border in Yunnan Province, though about 10 percent of the energy would have gone to Myanmar.
The project was jointly pushed by both countries’ governments and epitomized Naypyidaw’s prioritization of Chinese demands and the money that came with them over local needs.
Yet today, a boulder with the graffiti “No Dam, No War” painted in red stands at the headwaters of the Irrawaddy River. A few miles downstream, four huge concrete towers thrust out of the water: the unfinished Myitsone Dam.
In September 2011, Myanmar’s new government shocked everyone — especially China — by announcing that work on the dam would be suspended. The reversal was so unexpected that scaffolding still crowns the uncompleted dam, streaking the concrete brown as it rusts.
The suspension seems permanent enough that many Kachin have moved back to their villages. While driving through them we saw women hoeing potatoes and men hammering together new houses on wooden stilts.
This is a sharp reversal of the previous government’s position. Because the dam would flood about 65,000 acres of the surrounding valleys, the junta, with the encouragement of the Chinese, forcibly evicted nearby Kachin villagers through 2011, leading to widespread reports of abuse. “They bulldozed five or six villages without warning,” Htu Hkwang, who lived in one of the villages, toldForeign Policy. “Once people began to protest, they tried to bribe the rest of the villages. When people still wouldn’t move, they threatened them with false legal orders and warned, ‘This place will be covered with water anyway, so you don’t really have a choice.’”
Protests against the dam spread nationwide, on behalf of both the villagers and the river’s fragile ecosystem. Soon, celebrities like Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel Peace Prize winner and Burmese democracy activist,took up the cause.
The size of the crowds surprised everyone. But shortly after the suspension of the dam, China received an even bigger shock. Myanmar was intent on democratizing. In 2015, elections raised up the Nationwide League for Democracy, an opposition party led by Aung San Suu Kyi, though the military retained control of important ministries and substantial influence in the parliament through a new constitution. Instead of a client state on its southwestern border, China had to deal with a government that was keen to find great powers to balance Beijing’s influence.
China’s hopes to restart the dam were complicated by a resumption of fighting between the KIA and Myanmar’s military after a cease-fire had broken down after two decades in 2011, shortly before the dam was put on hold. The instability has often closed the border and threatened China’s huge business interests in timber, gold, and jade. In 2014, Global Witness found that theblack marketjade trade could be worth up to $31 billion, which is equal to nearly half of Myanmar’s legitimate gross domestic product, most of which flowed from the richest jade mines in the world in east Kachin State. Thousands of Kachin refugees periodically flood Chinese townships.
Given these new realities, it was clear that China would have to change its strong-arm strategies. The country has shifted its approach in an attempt to restart the Myitsone Dam project, from raising the issue during Aung San Suu Kyi’s first diplomatic visit to hearts-and-minds campaigns. Apublic outreachcampaign was funded to convince the Kachin that the dam was in their best interest. Kachin leaders were taken on educational trips to see the benefits of hydropower projects in China. Donations were made to schools and civic organizations. And peace suddenly became a priority.
“In the old days, the Chinese talked directly to the military, and they didn’t have to care about the people because the military was in control,” said Steve Naw Aung, the general secretary for the Kachin Development Networking Group, which organized protests of the Myitsone Dam. “But when the people started to protest and then the new government responded to the democratic pressure, they learned they had to engage with the people.” Still, many Kachin doubted China’s sincerity. “They just want peace so they can happily run their businesses,” Steve Naw Aung said.
China’s interest in a peacekeeping role is new, but its objectives haven’t changed. “China doesn’t want an escalation in fighting, but it also doesn’t want a Western-funded peace process bringing international monitors and NGOs right up to its southwestern border,” Thant Myint-U, the celebrated Burmese historian and special advisor to the Myanmar Peace Center, toldForeign Policyby email. “Ideally for Beijing, China would be the dominant outside partner in any new ceasefire arrangement, one that would be coupled new economic schemes, further tying Myanmar’s economy to China’s hinterland.”
Dau Hka, a spokesman for the Kachin Independence Organization (KIO), the civilian twin of the KIA, remembered the Chinese strategy at the opening 2013 peace talks: “The Chinese were very aggressive in pushing for us to sit down. They kept insisting on a cease-fire before any conditions. It was a little bit confusing to us. But they really wanted to see the conflict finished — especially under their watch. They warned us not to invite America, England, or the United Nations. They wanted to make sure it was all arranged under Chinese eyes.”
However, the Kachin, seeking to balance China’s influence, insisted that Western powers be included in the talks. This led to years of unsuccessful talks, which were subsumed into negotiations for the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement, a framework for the government and over 20 ethnic rebel armies hoping to work out a lasting peace at the second round of the 21st Century Panglong peace conference later this year.
China, however, argues that it is playing the role of a “responsible great power” that the West has often asked it to assume. Recently, China has been pushing even harder for peace, with the Foreign Ministryplaying a strongrole and the government arranging multiple negotiations in its southern provinces. In November 2016, China held high-level discussions between the two countries’ defense ministries about border security.
In December, it hosted talks between four rebel groups and Myanmar officials, though the negotiations quickly failed. It has even offered $3 million to fund the peace talks with the KIA. And it has called on Myanmar’s rebel groups, including the Kachin, to sign theNationwide Ceasefire Agreementwith the government, leaning especially hard on the armed forces who control territory abutting China. But for now, the KIA have resisted calls for a cease-fire.
There are signs China wields substantial influence on some of the most powerful groups along its borders. At the sit-down in early March between Myanmar’s government and the KIA and its rebel allies, the United Wa State Army (UWSA) — the rebel group leading the conference — announced that it wanted to scrap the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement. Instead, it proposed a new peace process led by China. The UWSA is a force of about 30,000-strong that controls a Belgium-sized chunk of Myanmar’s border alongside China and is widely seen as being heavily influenced by its northern neighbor, even using arms supplied illicitly by the People’s Liberation Army.
As Thant Myint-U wrote, “The keystone for peace in Myanmar is the desires of the UWSA, head of the self-styled Northern Alliance,” the rebel coalition of which the KIA are part. “There is very little chance of a meeting of minds between the UWSA and [Naypyidaw] on a way forward, yet without this, it’s hard to see how any peace process can get very far.”
However, Yun Sun, a senior researcher at the Stimson Center in Washington, cautioned that rather than manipulating the peace process, “China is actually afraid of being drawn too deeply into this conflict. It wants peace on its border, open trade, and continued influence with Myanmar at the expense of Western governments, but it does not want to become a signatory to a peace deal it cannot guarantee and that could damage its commercial relationships with Myanmar, if Myanmar felt it was taking the rebels’ side.”
Ultimately, China’s primary goal is to keep border trade flowing. Throughout the conflict, it has maintained commerce through backdoor ties with the KIA and the Myanmar military. But the constant uncertainty has impeded trade. Fighting in Myanmar’s Kokang region in early 2015 led to the declaration of martial law and the subsequent closure of many vital border crossings. According to the World Bank, trade decreased through Muse, Myanmar’s most important land border crossing to China. Myanmar’s third-largest crossing at Chin Shwe Haw was temporarily closed.
China has grander ambitions than trade with its small neighbor.The most direct route to southern China from India runs across Kachin State, along the old Ledo Road constructed by the Allies during World War II to supply their fight against the Japanese. China’s plan to create the “One Belt, One Road” project, a new set of Eurasian infrastructure connections both on land (the belt) and at sea (the road), has singled out the Ledo Road as a comparatively easy and low-altitude way to cross the Himalayas compared with the steep routes of the far north. One Belt, One Road is the signature policy of the increasingly powerful Chinese President Xi Jinping, making it both politically and economically vital. Peace could usher in a chance for China not only to have better access to Myanmar’s markets, but even more significantly a better land route between two of the world’s most important economies.
As much as the KIA has resisted China’s prodding for a cease-fire, the time may come when they too find it in their best interest. Over the years, Myanmar’s military has ground them down with its superior numbers and hardware, including helicopters and fighter jets that the rebels have few answers for. In the past few months, the militaryhas captureda string of important KIA outposts, driving closer to its headquarters along the Chinese border. The fighting has taken a hard toll on the population, with fresh waves of refugees spilling into China.
“The jade and timber are almost gone,” Dau Hka, the KIO spokesman, toldForeign Policy.“The natural resources have nearly been exhausted.” After decades of exploitation by the Kachin, Chinese, and Burmese, the area’s old-growth forests have been mostly cut down and there have been fears that the Hpakant jade mine is running dry.
When asked how the Kachin would survive without these resources, Dau Hka said: “If the political system is stable in Myanmar, then we could open the border gates and tax the trade coming through. It is possible to cross Myanmar from India to China in just one day with a truck if our border posts are open. If the political conditions are met, then we could open the highway in just one year,” suggesting that the Kachin could tax the trade, probably after the state was granted greater autonomy as part of a peace deal. But he cautioned that Myanmar’s government had proved resistant to many of the conditions, including the KIA’s demands to semi-autonomously run Kachin State, and that decades of mistrust would have to be overcome.
China might achieve stability on the border it covets if it can persuade the KIA that Beijing’s grand ambitions serve the economic needs of the Kachin. But it has to convince the Kachin that it has learned from past mistakes, despite fresh conflicts that echo old flashpoints. In mid-March, several thousand KachinprotestedChina’s new plans for the May Kha and Ngaw Chan Kha rivers in Kachin State — eight more dams.
This article was written with the support of the Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting.
"Real World. Real Time." Follow Foreign Policy onFacebook. Subscribe to Foreign Policyhere.
Jump to

Title: China Is Playing Peacemaker in Myanmar, but with an Ulterior Motive
KACHIN STATE, Myanmar — In early March, Myanmar’s government sat down with a coalition of ethnic rebel groups, including the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), trying to jump-start peace negotiations that had sputtered out after months of escalating fighting. The meeting had been brokered by China, keen to quell the conflict along its southwestern border.
The Kachin are an ethnic group of about a million people with their own eponymous province, Kachin State, in northern Myanmar. Ever since a coup brought a junta led by the nation’s ethnic majority Burmese to power in 1962, the Kachin have been fighting for independence as part of a constellation of conflicts that observers have called “the world’s longest-running civil war.” The KIA is no paltry guerrilla band — it has about 10,000 men and controls much of the Myanmar-China border — and the fighting has been intense. During the past six years, the conflict has displaced more than 100,000 people, and the military hascommittedwidespread human rights violations, including extrajudicial killings, rape, and torture. With refugees spilling across the border, Beijing has repeatedly emphasized the need for peace.
But China has not always been so conciliatory. As recently as 2011, China was used to getting its way with its much smaller neighbor through force. For five decades, as the junta ruled Myanmar, China had treated its neighbor, which it officially termed a “little brother,” like a client nation, knowing that the regime was isolated by sanctions and had few other places to turn. During the past few decades, China has extracted massive quantities of timber, gold, jade, and other resources from Kachin State — much of itillegally.
But Myanmar’srecent democratizationand the changing goals of its rebel groups, from fighting off the government to winning the right to run their own states within Myanmar, have forced China to pivot. The clearest example of China’s changing strategy is the transformation of its efforts to build the Myitsone Dam across the Irrawaddy River. Before 2011,China planned to sink $3.5 billion into constructing one of the largest hydroelectric dams in the world to produce electricity primarily for its cities over the border in Yunnan Province, though about 10 percent of the energy would have gone to Myanmar.The project was jointly pushed by both countries’ governments and epitomized Naypyidaw’s prioritization of Chinese demands and the money that came with them over local needs.
Yet today, a boulder with the graffiti “No Dam, No War” painted in red stands at the headwaters of the Irrawaddy River. A few miles downstream, four huge concrete towers thrust out of the water: the unfinished Myitsone Dam. In September 2011, Myanmar’s new government shocked everyone — especially China — by announcing that work on the dam would be suspended. The reversal was so unexpected that scaffolding still crowns the uncompleted dam, streaking the concrete brown as it rusts. The suspension seems permanent enough that many Kachin have moved back to their villages. While driving through them we saw women hoeing potatoes and men hammering together new houses on wooden stilts.
This is a sharp reversal of the previous government’s position. Because the dam would flood about 65,000 acres of the surrounding valleys, the junta, with the encouragement of the Chinese, forcibly evicted nearby Kachin villagers through 2011, leading to widespread reports of abuse. “They bulldozed five or six villages without warning,” Htu Hkwang, who lived in one of the villages, toldForeign Policy. “Once people began to protest, they tried to bribe the rest of the villages. When people still wouldn’t move, they threatened them with false legal orders and warned, ‘This place will be covered with water anyway, so you don’t really have a choice.’”
Protests against the dam spread nationwide, on behalf of both the villagers and the river’s fragile ecosystem. Soon, celebrities like Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel Peace Prize winner and Burmese democracy activist,took up the cause.
The size of the crowds surprised everyone. But shortly after the suspension of the dam, China received an even bigger shock. Myanmar was intent on democratizing. In 2015, elections raised up the Nationwide League for Democracy, an opposition party led by Aung San Suu Kyi, though the military retained control of important ministries and substantial influence in the parliament through a new constitution. Instead of a client state on its southwestern border, China had to deal with a government that was keen to find great powers to balance Beijing’s influence.
China’s hopes to restart the dam were complicated by a resumption of fighting between the KIA and Myanmar’s military after a cease-fire had broken down after two decades in 2011, shortly before the dam was put on hold. The instability has often closed the border and threatened China’s huge business interests in timber, gold, and jade. In 2014, Global Witness found that theblack marketjade trade could be worth up to $31 billion, which is equal to nearly half of Myanmar’s legitimate gross domestic product, most of which flowed from the richest jade mines in the world in east Kachin State. Thousands of Kachin refugees periodically flood Chinese townships.
Given these new realities, it was clear that China would have to change its strong-arm strategies. The country has shifted its approach in an attempt to restart the Myitsone Dam project, from raising the issue during Aung San Suu Kyi’s first diplomatic visit to hearts-and-minds campaigns. Apublic outreachcampaign was funded to convince the Kachin that the dam was in their best interest. Kachin leaders were taken on educational trips to see the benefits of hydropower projects in China. Donations were made to schools and civic organizations. And peace suddenly became a priority.
“In the old days, the Chinese talked directly to the military, and they didn’t have to care about the people because the military was in control,” said Steve Naw Aung, the general secretary for the Kachin Development Networking Group, which organized protests of the Myitsone Dam. “But when the people started to protest and then the new government responded to the democratic pressure, they learned they had to engage with the people.” Still, many Kachin doubted China’s sincerity. “They just want peace so they can happily run their businesses,” Steve Naw Aung said.
China’s interest in a peacekeeping role is new, but its objectives haven’t changed. “China doesn’t want an escalation in fighting, but it also doesn’t want a Western-funded peace process bringing international monitors and NGOs right up to its southwestern border,” Thant Myint-U, the celebrated Burmese historian and special advisor to the Myanmar Peace Center, toldForeign Policyby email. “Ideally for Beijing, China would be the dominant outside partner in any new ceasefire arrangement, one that would be coupled new economic schemes, further tying Myanmar’s economy to China’s hinterland.”
Dau Hka, a spokesman for the Kachin Independence Organization (KIO), the civilian twin of the KIA, remembered the Chinese strategy at the opening 2013 peace talks: “The Chinese were very aggressive in pushing for us to sit down. They kept insisting on a cease-fire before any conditions. It was a little bit confusing to us. But they really wanted to see the conflict finished — especially under their watch. They warned us not to invite America, England, or the United Nations. They wanted to make sure it was all arranged under Chinese eyes.”
However, the Kachin, seeking to balance China’s influence, insisted that Western powers be included in the talks. This led to years of unsuccessful talks, which were subsumed into negotiations for the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement, a framework for the government and over 20 ethnic rebel armies hoping to work out a lasting peace at the second round of the 21st Century Panglong peace conference later this year.
China, however, argues that it is playing the role of a “responsible great power” that the West has often asked it to assume. Recently, China has been pushing even harder for peace, with the Foreign Ministryplaying a strongrole and the government arranging multiple negotiations in its southern provinces. In November 2016, China held high-level discussions between the two countries’ defense ministries about border security.
In December, it hosted talks between four rebel groups and Myanmar officials, though the negotiations quickly failed. It has even offered $3 million to fund the peace talks with the KIA. And it has called on Myanmar’s rebel groups, including the Kachin, to sign theNationwide Ceasefire Agreementwith the government, leaning especially hard on the armed forces who control territory abutting China. But for now, the KIA have resisted calls for a cease-fire.
There are signs China wields substantial influence on some of the most powerful groups along its borders. At the sit-down in early March between Myanmar’s government and the KIA and its rebel allies, the United Wa State Army (UWSA) — the rebel group leading the conference — announced that it wanted to scrap the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement. Instead, it proposed a new peace process led by China. The UWSA is a force of about 30,000-strong that controls a Belgium-sized chunk of Myanmar’s border alongside China and is widely seen as being heavily influenced by its northern neighbor, even using arms supplied illicitly by the People’s Liberation Army.
As Thant Myint-U wrote, “The keystone for peace in Myanmar is the desires of the UWSA, head of the self-styled Northern Alliance,” the rebel coalition of which the KIA are part. “There is very little chance of a meeting of minds between the UWSA and [Naypyidaw] on a way forward, yet without this, it’s hard to see how any peace process can get very far.”
However, Yun Sun, a senior researcher at the Stimson Center in Washington, cautioned that rather than manipulating the peace process, “China is actually afraid of being drawn too deeply into this conflict. It wants peace on its border, open trade, and continued influence with Myanmar at the expense of Western governments, but it does not want to become a signatory to a peace deal it cannot guarantee and that could damage its commercial relationships with Myanmar, if Myanmar felt it was taking the rebels’ side.”
Ultimately, China’s primary goal is to keep border trade flowing. Throughout the conflict, it has maintained commerce through backdoor ties with the KIA and the Myanmar military. But the constant uncertainty has impeded trade. Fighting in Myanmar’s Kokang region in early 2015 led to the declaration of martial law and the subsequent closure of many vital border crossings. According to the World Bank, trade decreased through Muse, Myanmar’s most important land border crossing to China. Myanmar’s third-largest crossing at Chin Shwe Haw was temporarily closed.
China has grander ambitions than trade with its small neighbor.The most direct route to southern China from India runs across Kachin State, along the old Ledo Road constructed by the Allies during World War II to supply their fight against the Japanese. China’s plan to create the “One Belt, One Road” project, a new set of Eurasian infrastructure connections both on land (the belt) and at sea (the road), has singled out the Ledo Road as a comparatively easy and low-altitude way to cross the Himalayas compared with the steep routes of the far north. One Belt, One Road is the signature policy of the increasingly powerful Chinese President Xi Jinping, making it both politically and economically vital. Peace could usher in a chance for China not only to have better access to Myanmar’s markets, but even more significantly a better land route between two of the world’s most important economies.
As much as the KIA has resisted China’s prodding for a cease-fire, the time may come when they too find it in their best interest. Over the years, Myanmar’s military has ground them down with its superior numbers and hardware, including helicopters and fighter jets that the rebels have few answers for. In the past few months, the militaryhas captureda string of important KIA outposts, driving closer to its headquarters along the Chinese border. The fighting has taken a hard toll on the population, with fresh waves of refugees spilling into China.
“The jade and timber are almost gone,” Dau Hka, the KIO spokesman, toldForeign Policy.“The natural resources have nearly been exhausted.” After decades of exploitation by the Kachin, Chinese, and Burmese, the area’s old-growth forests have been mostly cut down and there have been fears that the Hpakant jade mine is running dry.
When asked how the Kachin would survive without these resources, Dau Hka said: “If the political system is stable in Myanmar, then we could open the border gates and tax the trade coming through. It is possible to cross Myanmar from India to China in just one day with a truck if our border posts are open. If the political conditions are met, then we could open the highway in just one year,” suggesting that the Kachin could tax the trade, probably after the state was granted greater autonomy as part of a peace deal. But he cautioned that Myanmar’s government had proved resistant to many of the conditions, including the KIA’s demands to semi-autonomously run Kachin State, and that decades of mistrust would have to be overcome.
China might achieve stability on the border it covets if it can persuade the KIA that Beijing’s grand ambitions serve the economic needs of the Kachin. But it has to convince the Kachin that it has learned from past mistakes, despite fresh conflicts that echo old flashpoints. In mid-March, several thousand KachinprotestedChina’s new plans for the May Kha and Ngaw Chan Kha rivers in Kachin State — eight more dams.
This article was written with the support of the Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting.
Photo Credit: STR/AFP/Getty Images
With only 117 in MLB history, an immaculate inning is rarer than a no-hitter.
MLB's first 50-50 season belongs to Shohei Ohtani.
What to expect during perimenopause, including lesser-known symptoms and how long this phase lasts.
Texas jumped Georgia on Sunday, and that means a bracket overhaul.
In their regular season finale, the Indiana Fever rallied in the fourth quarter but fell short in a 92-91 loss to the Washington Mystics.
With October around the corner, the Phillies, Astros and Padres appear locked in, while other teams have questions to answer.
We figured Caitlin Clark's arrival in the WNBA would boost TV ratings. What we didn't see coming was the sustained magnitude.
The 'Real Housewives' star has been prioritizing her health, and Three Wishes is high on her list of hunger-curbing treats.
Tensions may be thawing between LIV Golf and the rest of the golf establishment.
U.S. tech giant Cisco has let go of thousands of employees following its second layoff of 2024.  The technology and networking company announced in August that it would reduce its headcount by 7%, or around 5,600 employees, following an earlier layoff in February, in which the company let go of about 4,000 employees.  As TechCrunch previously reported, Cisco employees said that the company refused to say who was affected by the layoffs until September 16.
If you're a side sleeper, this little satin sidekick can help keep you comfy (and smooth!) as you snooze.
Intel provided Wall Street with some good news after a slew of negative headlines in recent months.
Kimbrel is currently fifth all time with 440 career saves.
Dress, cook and decorate like your favorite celebs (on a budget, of course) with these affordable fashion and home collabs.
This spa-like ritual can eventually lead to thicker strands — all while you de-stress, they say.
You ever get so mad you take your shoe off to make a point?
The biggest news stories this morning:   How Google will start helping you figure out which images are AI generated, watchOS 11 is out now, with new Sleep Apnea feature, Trump jumps into cryptocurrency, appears to know nothing about it.
A'ja Wilson, after setting a pair of all-time scoring marks already this season, has now broken the league's single-season rebounding record.
Manning then rushed for a 67-yard TD on his third play.
Wojnarowski graduated from St. Bonaventure in 1991.

Title: UNHCR Web Archive
