Title: Fighting could spread beyond N Rakhine: Arakan Army | The Daily Star
Workers’ minimum wage to be reviewed
Killer of Pathao founder gets  40 years in jail
B’baria Border: Former MP Fazle Karim arrested
Rab arrests ex-DMP  chief Asaduzzaman
In a video message, the Arakan Army (AA)’s deputy chief, Brigadier-General Nyo Tun Aung, told ordinary Arakanese on Wednesday that if the current fighting in northern Rakhine State continues to worsen, it could spread to other places in the state.
His message followed a number of actions by the Myanmar military that have seen it send more troops to northern Rakhine State. Additionally, National League for Democracy (NLD)-appointed Chief Minister U Nyi Pu recently gave permission to the Army and state police to conduct household checks to squeeze out AA members in seven townships.
The video message was made in the Arakanese language by AA deputy chief Nyo Tun Aung at the AA’s headquarters in Laiza, in the Kachin Independence Army (KIA)’s area of control in Kachin State, reportsThe Irrawaddy.
Brig-Gen Nyo Tun Aung said that government soldiers and police are forcibly searching suspected homes in the middle of the night without prior warning, referring to an incident that happened on Tuesday in Kyauktaw Township’s Pan Hpe Chaung village.
About 40 soldiers and police forcibly raided a home where housewife Daw Tin Shwe was alone while her husband, U Kyaw Win, was traveling to a neighboring village to purchase timber.  The village is close to Kan Sauk military battalion. Brig-Gen Nyo Tun Aung’s message contained a number of safety recommendations for villagers and a list of dos and don’ts while travelling in conflict zones. He issued four warning statements regarding areas in Rakhine State and said the conflict zone was broadening,the reportsaid.
He said, “Women and the elderly should not stay alone at home. They should practice living all together with their relatives.”
He also repeatedly urged villagers to implement such practices in the villages as soon as possible and requested the villagers spread his message. He added that in the ongoing battles in Rakhine, the casualties of the Myanmar military (or Tatmadaw) appeared to be high. In January and early February, the government Army lost hundreds of soldiers in battle, the AA vice chief claimed.
Brig-Gen Nyo Tun Aung said that in order to prevent dejection in the ranks, the military never publicly announces the death toll for its soldiers. He said that because the Army had been firmly defeated in the clashes, it was being aggressive toward Arakanese civilians. He warned that the Tatmadaw would continue to commit rights abuses, including torture and arbitrary arrests of Arakanese civilians.
He promised villagers that if the authorities badly treat the Arakanese people, they will be made to pay an eye for an eye. The AA expected fierce fighting would continue and that the death toll on both sides would likely to rise in the near future.
Brig-Gen Nyo Tun Aung said, “My message to those who are away from their homes is please return to protect your own family. Nothing is worth more than a life. You can earn [money] as long as you are alive. Money can’t buy life.”
The AA’s deputy chief reiterated that the ultimate goal of the United League for Arakan (ULA/AA), the AA’s political wing, is that the AA must be the only army in Rakhine State. Tatmadaw battalions have a heavy presence in Rakhine State, but the AA will drive them out of the Arakanese lands, he said. The AA designates the armed resistance period in 2019 and 2020 as a “transitional period.”
“We will not give up on our ultimate mission, no matter what the circumstances,” he said.
Brig-Gen Nyo Tun Aung told villagers via a live-stream that Tatmadaw soldiers exploit ordinary commuters in the region by offering free rides to their destination. If the troops are ambushed by AA fighters, they denounce the AA as targeting civilians. He suggested the villagers avoid riding in military trucks or private trucks with soldiers.
According to Brig-Gen Nyo Tun Aung, the AA plans to issue more statements to the Arakanese public, keeping community leaders in the villages informed, and issuing warning letters to traitors and so on. He also warned the public to be careful about the authenticity of statements they read, as some fake announcements had been published in the past by supporters of the government Army.
“If it reaches beyond your knowledge, please consult with well-educated people or those who have enough knowledge to judge the authenticity [of the statements],” he said.
AA leaders have occasionally conducted such online conferences in the past. Both AA chief Tun Myat Naing and deputy chief Nyo Tun Aung have held such conferences with Arakanese scholars and residents of the US in recent months.
Since early January, the AA rebels have been staging attacks on the government Army in five townships in northern Rakhine State, as well as in Chin State’s Paletwa. They have clashed with Army troops on more than 100 occasions within 40 days. Aid shipments from international relief agencies to Rakhine State’s Kyauktaw Township and Chin State’s upper Paletwa are being blocked by frontline commanders despite hundreds of displaced villagers being in need.
Local relief groups estimate that armed clashes between the government Army and the AA has resulted in more than 6,000 IDPs in Rakhine State. More than 200 Arakanese and ethnic Chin from Paletwa were driven from their homes to neighboring Bangladesh’s Bandarban District last weekend. The Bangladesh authorities summoned Myanmar’s ambassador to discuss the new refugee arrivals in recent days.
উপদেষ্টা পরিষদের বৈঠকের পর পরিবেশ উপদেষ্টা সৈয়দা রিজওয়ানা হাসান এ কথা জানান।

Title: India Deploys Additional Army Units Along Myanmar Border As Threat Escalates
Sputnik News
22:08 18.02.2019
The Indian government is wary of people – militants and refugees alike - crossing over the border and taking shelter inside the country.
New Delhi (Sputnik) – India has deployed additional Indian Army units in the past few days along its Myanmar border after the threat of militants entering into the Indian side increased.
"A large number of troops have already been deployed in the sensitive area," a source told Sputnik.
The local administration, sources said, informed the government that there is an increased threat level of militants taking crossing into Indian territory and facilitating refugees' entry into India. The troops will guard the border to prevent such incidents from happening.
Sources told Sputnik that at least two additional Indian Army units are being sent to the Indo-Myanmar border in southern Mizoram's Lawngtlai district following fresh clashes between the Myanmar Army and the Arakan Army.
Another source told Sputnik that close to 200 people displaced from Myanmar's Chin state have already taken shelter in territory under the control of the ethnic armed group near the border with India.
Large clashes have been underway for the past month between the Myanmar Army and the Arakan Army in the region, very close to India's northeastern state of Mizoram. The two have been engaged in bloody on-and-off fighting for the past two years.
Last December, the Myanmar military announced a unilateral ceasefire with armed groups in the northeast until April later this year.
However, fresh clashes erupted in January when the Arakan Army attacked four border guard outposts in Buthidaung, seizing more than 40 arms and thousands of rounds of ammunition. Thirteen police personnel and nine others were injured in the attack.
Meanwhile, Arakan Army's Major-General Tun Myat Naing in a video message urged Arakanese living abroad to return to Rakhine state in order to take part in what he said was a turning point in the history of the region. https://www.irrawaddy.com/news/burma/aa-chief-vows-set-hq-rakhine-state-soon.html
"I absolutely believe that the Arakanese public and the Arakan Army stand side by side. We have also frequently said that the government military is fighting against the whole Arakanese public," Major-General Tun Myat Naing said on 10 February.
The chief promised they will fight until they achieve their ultimate goal.
"If you are interested in being an Arakan Army soldier, you don't need to travel to Karen state. Just go back to your homes and inquire a bit about the Arakan Army," he said, adding, "The world-famous AK assault rifles, brand new AK firearms are waiting for you. Just come and join, OK?"
The Indian government identified the Rohingyas, who fled from Myanmar's Rakhine state in 2017 to India, as a threat to national security and refused to grant them refugee status.
In August 2017, the government directed state governments to collect biometric details to identify and deport Rohingyas living in India. The government did not provide the exact number of Rohingyas but it is estimated that at least 40000 Rohingyas crossed over inside India dispersing into different parts of the country.
In early February this year, Kiren Rijiju, the minister of state for home affairs, stated in the Lok Sabha that the government has directed states to conduct surveys and deport Rohingyas in a "continuous manner."

© Sputnik



Title: India Deploys Additional Army Units Along Myanmar Border As Threat Escalates - 18.02.2019, Sputnik International
New Delhi (Sputnik) — India has deployed additional Indian Army units in the past few days along its Myanmar border after the threat of militants entering into the Indian side increased.
READ MORE: India's Crackdown on Rohingyas Has Prompted A Reverse Exodus – Reports
"A large number of troops have already been deployed in the sensitive area," a source told Sputnik.

Sources told Sputnik that at least two additional Indian Army units are being sent to the Indo-Myanmar border in southern Mizoram's Lawngtlai district following fresh clashes between the Myanmar Army and the Arakan Army.
Another source told Sputnik that close to 200 people displaced from Myanmar's Chin state have already taken shelter in territory under the control of the ethnic armed group near the border with India.Large clashes have been underway for the past month between the Myanmar Army and the Arakan Army in the region, very close to India's northeastern state of Mizoram. The two have been engaged in bloody on-and-off fighting for the past two years.Last December, the Myanmar militaryannounceda unilateral ceasefire with armed groups in the northeast until April later this year.
However, fresh clashes erupted in January when the Arakan Army attacked four border guard outposts in Buthidaung, seizing more than 40 arms and thousands of rounds of ammunition. Thirteen police personnel and nine others were injured in the attack.
READ MORE: Suu Kyi Touts Business-Friendly Environment at Myanmar Investment Summit
Meanwhile, Arakan Army's Major-General Tun Myat Naing in a video message urged Arakanese living abroad to return to Rakhine state in order to take part in what he said was a turning point in the history of the region. https://www.irrawaddy.com/news/burma/aa-chief-vows-set-hq-rakhine-state-soon.html"I absolutely believe that the Arakanese public and the Arakan Army stand side by side. We have also frequently said that the government military is fighting against the whole Arakanese public," Major-General Tun Myat Naing said on 10 February.
The chief promised they will fight until they achieve their ultimate goal.
"If you are interested in being an Arakan Army soldier, you don't need to travel to Karen state. Just go back to your homes and inquire a bit about the Arakan Army," he said, adding, "The world-famous AK assault rifles, brand new AK firearms are waiting for you. Just come and join, OK?"
The Indian government identified the Rohingyas, who fled from Myanmar's Rakhine state in 2017 to India, as a threat to national security and refused to grant them refugee status.

READ MORE: ‘We Are Taking More Action’: Facebook Bans Pages of Violent Myanmar Insurgents
In early February this year, Kiren Rijiju, the minister of state for home affairs,statedin the Lok Sabha that the government has directed states to conduct surveys and deport Rohingyas in a "continuous manner."

Title: Rebel group alliance proposes ceasefire with Myanmar military - Myanmar | ReliefWeb
Myanmar
By LAWI WENG
Mon State — The four ethnic armed groups of the Northern Alliance say they offered the Myanmar military a ceasefire during their first meeting with the government’s National Reconciliation and Peace Center (NRPC) in Yunnan Province, China, on Monday.
The groups — the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), Arakan Army (AA), and Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA) — proposed a bilateral ceasefire with the military, an offer the NRPC said it would relay to senior officials, said TNLA Maj. Tar Aike Kyaw, who joined the meeting.
“It was an informal talk. Each side proposed its ideas for the peace process, so there was no agreement. We told them that we will have a bilateral ceasefire first, then we will sign the NCA,” he said, referring to the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement.
“We asked them to sign a bilateral deal with our four armed groups at the same time and at the same place,” he said.
A source inside the Northern Alliance who asked to remain anonymous said the NRPC proposed that the four groups first make a stronger commitment to eventually singing the NCA.
The Northern Alliance and NRPC did agree to meet again in Yunnan next month.
Maj. Tar Aike Kyaw said the Northern Alliance would handle the talks on a bilateral ceasefire while talks on the NCA would be handled by its political wing, the Federal Political Negotiation and Consultative Committee.
In late December the military announced a unilateral ceasefire to last until the end of April in the north and east of Myanmar, where the Northern Alliance is mostly active, in hopes of convincing more armed groups to sing the NCA. That ceasefire does not cover Rakhine State, where the military is engaged in heavy fighting with the AA.
Ten armed groups have signed the NCA to date, but none are members of the Northern Alliance, which boasts some of the largest fighting forces in the country.
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: MYANMAR As rebel groups clash, the number of displaced people rises in Shan State
Refugees from Kyaukme are welcomed by the Aung Su Pan, Shwe Kyin and Namt Sitlynn Buddhist monasteries after their villages come under rebel occupation. Food shortages are however a problem and refugee pupils are unable to continue their education.
Naypyidaw (AsiaNews/Agencies) – Fighting broke out betweenrebel factionsforcing about a thousand people to flee their villages in the Kyaukme area, northernShan State, local officials reported.
Soldiers of the Ta'ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) and its ally, the Shan State Progress Party (SSPP), have clashed with forces of the Restoration Council of Shan State (Rcss).
Most refugees are from the villages of Namt Pyan, Pan Lawt, Napon-Napyain and Lwal Sar, this according to the Refugee Support Committee in Kyaukme.
A total of 307 displaced people found shelter at the Aung Su Pan monastery, 677 at Shwe Kyin monastery and 32 at Namt Sitlynn monastery
“We fled on Saturday night to avoid getting caught in the fighting between the two Shan groups,” said Sai Naung, who is staying at Shwe Kyin monastery.
The number of displaced people is likely to increase as fighting between the two armed groups gets closer to other villages, said Thar Zaw, a resident of Kyaukme.
“The refugees can’t go back their villages, as the armed groups are staying in the village, even in their houses,” he explained, adding that the lack of food is the main problem as more and more refugees flood into the camps.
Another major concern is the education of children, who fled just ahead of their final exams.
Nam Saing Ham, a volunteer teacher at Shwe Kyin monastery school, said they plan to give the crucial exams toGrade 6, 7 and 8 students.
“The township officer of the Ministry of Education is trying to find another date and place for the children refugees to take their exams,” she explained.
The RCSS had clashed with the combined force of Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) and SSPP troops in Namtu township in September last year. Fighting resumed after the military declared a unilateral ceasefire in the area on 21 December.
The TNLA and SSPP are members of theNorthern Alliance, which has not signed the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement. The RCSS, which has signed it, often clashes with the Myanmar military as well as the TNLA and the SSPP.
Subscribe to Asia News updates or change your preferences

Title: Facebook bans four Myanmar ethnic rebel groups
YANGON: Facebook has blacklisted four more of Myanmar’s ethnic rebel groups, the platform announced Tuesday as it struggles to control rampant hate speech, misinformation and incitement on its platform. For years the social media giant has been lambasted for its slow and ineffectual response to incendiary posts, particularly against the country’s Rohingya Muslims. The company has embarked on a huge PR campaign over the last year to prove it is taking action in a country with an estimated 20 million Facebook accounts. The latest rebel organisations to have been banned are the Arakan Army (AA), Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA), Kachin Independence Army (KIA) and Taaung National Liberation Army (TNLA).
A firefighter uses a hose to extinguish embers in the remains of a home destroyed in the Bridge Fire, in Wrightwood,...
This collage of images shows, Indian PM Narendra Modi and India’s Opposition Leader Rahul Gandhi. —...
Rohingya refugees are seen at Thaingkhali makeshift refugee camp in Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh, September 14, 2017. —...
Spokeswoman of Russian Foreign Ministry Maria Zakharova attends a press conference held by Foreign Minister Sergei...
Ruling Morena Party senator Gerardo Fernandez Norona and members of Mexico's Senate celebrate after they passed the...
Iraq's Prime Minister Mohammed Shia al-Sudani and Iran's President Masoud Pezeshkian attend a ceremony signing...
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: MYANMAR Teenagers pay ultimate price for conflict in Rakhine and Shan states
In Rakhine, soldiers fired indiscriminately hitting Ma Ye Ye Soe, 18, in the face. A four-year-old girl was also injured in the incident. In northern Shan, soldiers gunned down Mai Aike Zaup, 17, who was running away from a checkpoint thinking the armed men were rebels.
Yangon (AsiaNews) - As fighting continues in various parts of Myanmar, the death of two teenagers has sparked outrage in public opinion.
Ma Ye Ye Soe, 18, and Mai Aike Zaup, 17, are the latest victims of ethnic conflict in Rakhine and Shan states. Both were shot by the military, albeit under different circumstances.
Currently, Myanmar troops are fighting theBuddhist rebelsof the Arakan Army (AA) in northern Rakhine State as well as theTa'ang National Liberation Army(TNLA) in northern Shan State, where the armed group is fighting for the self-determination of the Ta'ang ethnic group.
Ma Ye Ye Soe died two days ago at her home in Myin Hpu, a village in Rathedaung Township (Rakhine), when she was struck in the face by a bullet.
Myin Hpu village administrator U Moe Kaung said that at about 10 o’clock on Wednesday, about 40 soldiers took up positions in the village.
At around 11.30 am, a mine exploded near the village. Although no one was hurt, the blast prompted the troops to randomly shoot into the village, sending locals fleeing to safer locations.
“I witnessed with my own eyes that Army soldiers were the only armed group shooting at the homes,” U Moe Kaung said.
A four-year-old girl, Ma Kay Thi Soe, was also injured in the shooting.
The Army unit fired at the village for almost one hour. Afterwards, soldiers rounded up 100 men from the community and held them for several hours. In the late afternoon, all were let go except for two.
Ma Ye Ye Soe's death came two days after that of Mai Aike Zaup, in Okk Mann Lee, a village in Kutkai Township (Shan).
The 17-year-old man was returning from a pagoda festival with a friend when they ran into a group of soldiers, the Ta'ang Women's Organisation (WTO) said.
There are no eyewitnesses, but local officials and Mai Aike Zaup's family said that the soldiers opened fire as the teens ran away. The two friends thought that the armed men were TNLA rebels, a group operating in the region.
Mai Aike Zaup was hit several times before collapsing to the ground, whilst his friend managed to escape.
The young man’s family said the soldiers realised their mistake and apologised for killing their son and paid them 2 million kyat (,311) in compensation.
TWO is now considering how to take legal action against the military for the teen’s death but will consult with the family to determine its wishes.
Subscribe to Asia News updates or change your preferences

Title: Asia and the Pacific: Weekly Regional Humanitarian Snapshot (12 - 18 February 2019) - Myanmar | ReliefWeb
Myanmar+ 2 more
INDONESIA
During the past week, forest fires and haze hit Riau Province affecting an area of about 498 hectares. According to the local agency for disaster management (BPBD), the most impacted area is Bengkalis District with 322 hectares affected.498 hectares affected by fires
MYANMAR
Clashes between the Restoration Council of Shan State/Shan State Army (RCSS/SSA) and the Shan State Progressive Party/Shan State Army (SSPP/SSA) in Kyaukme Township in Shan State displaced more than 1,100 people between 9 and 15 February. This brings the total number of people displaced by fighting in Shan State since the beginning of January 2019 to almost 5,600. Some 3,700 people have returned, leaving approximately 1,900 people who remain displaced in nine locations in Kyaukme, Hsipaw and Namtu townships. The authorities, civil society organisations, local community groups, national and international humanitarian organisations have provided food and other relief items for the displaced people.1,100 people displaced
Fighting between the Myanmar Military and the Arakan Army (AA) reportedly continues in Chin and Rakhine states, with approximately 5,500 people displaced since December 2018. In addition, access restriction to conflict-affected areas has impacted humanitarian and development programmes, affecting an estimated 95,000 people in Rakhine State.5,500 people displaced
PHILIPPINES
Since declaring a measles outbreak on 6 February, the Department of Health has reported 6,932 cases of measles and 115 deaths in the country. Most of the cases are children below 4 years old, and half of the cases and nearly 60 per cent of the deaths and are in Metro Manila and Calabarzon Region. The Department of Health is working with Government agencies in responding to the outbreak and conducting a nationwide immunization campaign. WHO and UNICEF are working closely with the Department of Health to provided technical and funding support to the national programme in the planning, implementation, and monitoring of response activities to contain the outbreak. At the request of the Department of Health, UNICEF is providing tents and is mobilizing its NGO network to support the vaccination campaign.6,900 cases of measles
Philippines
Philippines
Myanmar
Myanmar
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title:  Myanmar ethnic group calls for greater China role in peace effort | The Manila Times 
As the political reconciliation is underway in Myanmar, Shan State Army-South (SSAS) Chairman, Lieutenant General Yawd Serk hopes China would play a greater role in the process of achieving peace in the country.
The general, who is also Chairman of the Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS), told the Global Times that he has had talks with China’s Asia affairs special envoy. “I hope China can participate in Myanmar peace process at a greater width. China and Myanmar have a long border and China’s boundary with Shan State is also very long.” Despite the Myanmar government’s optimism that peace will prevail across the country, Yawd Serk said that he had almost “lost confidence.”
Ad-free access

Title: 
Armed group returns robbed items to military in Myanmar eastern state - Xinhua | English.news.cn

YANGON, Feb. 15 (Xinhua) -- An ethnic armed group of Myanmar, the Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS), has returned the robbed items to the military in eastern Shan state, Myanmar News Agency reported Friday.
The seized objects were given back to the military in Mongpyin on Wednesday evening, a day after the armed group, also known as the Shan State Army (SSA), robbed a vehicle of the military carrying two commanding officers, taking away properties on the car.
The robbery took place between the location of Mongyin and Kengtung.
The RCSS is an ethnic armed organization which signed the Nationwide Ceasefire Accord (NCA) with the government on Oct. 15, 2015.
The Myanmar military announced suspension of all its military actions against armed groups in operation areas in five military command regions for over four months starting from Dec. 21, 2018 to April 30, 2019 to pave way for political talks with the non-ceasefire signatory armed groups.
New round of China-U.S. trade talks starts in Beijing
Visitors view snowy scenery at Palace Museum in Beijing
Villagers rehearse for traditional shehuo performance in NE China's Liaoning
Deicing works underway at Beijing Capital International Airport
Visitors view snowy scenery at Palace Museum in Beijing
In pics: new-born seal cub at Harbin Polarland
Farmers busy working in early spring across China
Aerial view of snow-covered terraced fields in north China's Hebei

Title: 
                                    Hyundai joins fray in Myanmar's crowded auto market -
                        Nikkei Asia
                        
Nissan, Suzuki, Kia and Ford turn to local production to avoid import limits
YANGON -- Myanmar's restrictions on imported vehicles are pressing foreign automakers to switch to local production, adding pressure to a crowded field in Southeast Asia's last promising growth market.
Last week, South Korea'sHyundai Motormarked the opening of a new contract manufacturing facility in Myanmar by launching its first locally made cars. That makes it one of five local producers in an auto market shy of 20,000 sales per year -- about 2% the size of nearby Thailand -- despite a population of over 50 million.
Discover the all newNikkei Asia app
Nikkei Asian Review, now known as Nikkei Asia, will be the voice of the Asian Century.

Title: Facebook bans four Myanmar ethnic rebel groups
YANGON: Facebook has blacklisted four more of Myanmar’s ethnic rebel groups, the platform announced Tuesday as it struggles to control rampant hate speech, misinformation and incitement on its platform. For years the social media giant has been lambasted for its slow and ineffectual response to incendiary posts, particularly against the country’s Rohingya Muslims. The company has embarked on a huge PR campaign over the last year to prove it is taking action in a country with an estimated 20 million Facebook accounts. The latest rebel organisations to have been banned are the Arakan Army (AA), Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA), Kachin Independence Army (KIA) and Taaung National Liberation Army (TNLA).
A firefighter uses a hose to extinguish embers in the remains of a home destroyed in the Bridge Fire, in Wrightwood,...
This collage of images shows, Indian PM Narendra Modi and India’s Opposition Leader Rahul Gandhi. —...
Rohingya refugees are seen at Thaingkhali makeshift refugee camp in Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh, September 14, 2017. —...
Spokeswoman of Russian Foreign Ministry Maria Zakharova attends a press conference held by Foreign Minister Sergei...
Ruling Morena Party senator Gerardo Fernandez Norona and members of Mexico's Senate celebrate after they passed the...
Iraq's Prime Minister Mohammed Shia al-Sudani and Iran's President Masoud Pezeshkian attend a ceremony signing...
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: Myanmar Industrial Zone Review, 2019 with Profiles of 60+ Existing & Future Zones - ResearchAndMarkets.com | Business Wire
DUBLIN--(BUSINESS WIRE)--The"Myanmar 
      Industrial Zone Review"report has been added toResearchAndMarkets.com'soffering.
The author looked into more than 100 active, developing and proposed 
      industrial zone projects across Myanmar, surveying details such as size, 
      pricing, infrastructure, occupancy and tenants.
Researched over three months through site visits and interviews, the 
      report provides the first comprehensive research into an area of the 
      Myanmar economy that holds significant future growth potential but has 
      remained relatively opaque.
The review is an essential resource for manufacturers, investors, 
      contractors, suppliers, lenders, developers and a range of other 
      organisations active in the sector.
Fully up-to-date as of January 2019, it features:
Topics Covered
Section A: Myanmar Introduction
Section B: Industrial Zone Profiles
Section C: Special Economic Zone Profiles
Section D: Market Analysis
Companies Mentioned
For more information about this report visithttps://www.researchandmarkets.com/research/f7pn2v/myanmar?w=4
ResearchAndMarkets.comLaura Wood, Senior Press Managerpress@researchandmarkets.comFor 
      E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 
      1-800-526-8630For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900
ResearchAndMarkets.comLaura Wood, Senior Press Managerpress@researchandmarkets.comFor 
      E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 
      1-800-526-8630For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900

Title: MYANMAR Kachin rebels say poppy fields are in areas under military control
The Kachin Independence Organisation (KIO) challenges a UN investigation, done with the government. More than 6,000 acres are under poppy cultivation near military camps and government militias bases in Tanai. A “distorted picture of the link between conflict and opium is being conveyed”.
Yangon (AsiaNews/Agencies) – Opium in the northern state of Kachin is not grown in areas where armed rebel groups operate, but in those under the control of the Myanmar military, this according to the Kachin Independence Organisation (KIO), the political arm of the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), which has been fighting for the self-determination of the mostly Christian (90 per cent) Kachin people.
Yesterday, KIO asked the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) to correct a recent report that claims that areas under the armed group’s control have some of the highest concentrations of opium cultivation in the country.
“When we looked at the UNODC survey, we found that they did not go to the area to do the survey for their report,” said KIO spokesman Col Naw Bu. “They relied on information from a person or organisation. If they had done the survey on the ground themselves, their survey report would not be wrong like this”.
The survey, the UNODC’s 16th in Myanmar, was carried out in cooperation with the Home Affairs Ministry’s Central Committee for Drug Abuse Control, combining satellite imagery and a yield survey to evaluate the extent of opium poppy cultivation and production.
The KIO says 6,000 acres (2,428 hectares) are under poppy cultivation in Kachin State’s Special Region 1, under the control of the Kachin Border Guard Force, a former militia now under the authority of the Myanmar military.
Another 1,000 acres (404 hectares) or more are also under poppy cultivation in the state’s Tanai Township in areas under the control of the Myanmar military itself.
KIO sent a letter dated 15 February to the UNODC office in Bangkok pointing out the report’s alleged mistakes and asking for a correction.
The areas under the densest cultivation, the letter says, “are actually located close to the Myanmar military and government militia camps in and around the town of Tanai.”
“By failing to mark the Myanmar military presence in the ‘armed groups’ map . . . a distorted picture of thelink between conflict and opiumis being conveyed,” it adds.
Subscribe to Asia News updates or change your preferences

Title: MYANMAR Kachin rebels say poppy fields are in areas under military control
The Kachin Independence Organisation (KIO) challenges a UN investigation, done with the government. More than 6,000 acres are under poppy cultivation near military camps and government militias bases in Tanai. A “distorted picture of the link between conflict and opium is being conveyed”.
Yangon (AsiaNews/Agencies) – Opium in the northern state of Kachin is not grown in areas where armed rebel groups operate, but in those under the control of the Myanmar military, this according to the Kachin Independence Organisation (KIO), the political arm of the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), which has been fighting for the self-determination of the mostly Christian (90 per cent) Kachin people.
Yesterday, KIO asked the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) to correct a recent report that claims that areas under the armed group’s control have some of the highest concentrations of opium cultivation in the country.
“When we looked at the UNODC survey, we found that they did not go to the area to do the survey for their report,” said KIO spokesman Col Naw Bu. “They relied on information from a person or organisation. If they had done the survey on the ground themselves, their survey report would not be wrong like this”.
The survey, the UNODC’s 16th in Myanmar, was carried out in cooperation with the Home Affairs Ministry’s Central Committee for Drug Abuse Control, combining satellite imagery and a yield survey to evaluate the extent of opium poppy cultivation and production.
The KIO says 6,000 acres (2,428 hectares) are under poppy cultivation in Kachin State’s Special Region 1, under the control of the Kachin Border Guard Force, a former militia now under the authority of the Myanmar military.
Another 1,000 acres (404 hectares) or more are also under poppy cultivation in the state’s Tanai Township in areas under the control of the Myanmar military itself.
KIO sent a letter dated 15 February to the UNODC office in Bangkok pointing out the report’s alleged mistakes and asking for a correction.
The areas under the densest cultivation, the letter says, “are actually located close to the Myanmar military and government militia camps in and around the town of Tanai.”
“By failing to mark the Myanmar military presence in the ‘armed groups’ map . . . a distorted picture of thelink between conflict and opiumis being conveyed,” it adds.
Subscribe to Asia News updates or change your preferences