Title: LankaWeb – The Buddhist world must stand with Buddhist Myanmar in its hour of need
If the people of the West can demonstrate and protest against immigrants, the people of Myanmar have every right to voice their objections against a wave of incursions taking place. Myanmar is just one of the many countries plagued with problems that colonial British manufactured during their rule. What cannot be ignored is the forced migration during British rule of Bengali laborers to Arakan & the fact that before colonial rule there were no sovereign land demarcations to claim ‘national race’. The other more important factor is the fact that Rohingyas are being trained as militants and are part of many jihadist groups while Rohingyas are being used by the West assisted by the UN, foreign NGOs and media to fast forward neo-imperialism in Asia. Sri Lanka and the rest of the Buddhist world must take stock of the wave of incursions taking place using Islamic terror.

There has been 3 Anglo-Burmese wars lasting 60 years. British completely colonized Burma in 1886. British rule in Burma lasted from 1824 to 1948. The British ruled Burma as a part of India from 1919 until 1937 & Rangoon was capital. In 1937, Burma was made a crown colony of Britain after officially separating it from India. Britain also brought in large numbers of Indians and settled them throughout Burma. It was growing into a big problem. The term ‘Kalar’ was in reference to these Indians and is associated with the Pali term ‘Kula’. It is not a word connoting insult as is often projected. The Burmese usedkala-phyu, or white kalars,” to refer to white rulers!
The British named the country Burma after the Burmans. Map of modern day Burma was a creation of the British – borders & boundaries all created at the whim and fancy of colonial Britain.
It was the British that divided people by race, tribe etc. They are the root cause of all the problems its former colonies are having.There was NO ethnic problems in Myanmar before the British arrived.Writings of Victor Lieberman & Edmund R. Leach prove this.
British displaced the traditional rulers and divided people favouring groups over others to purposely create resentment(Karens given superior place in military and administration). Incrementally the British began dismantling all of the political institutions and cultural structures that had hereto united Burma replacing them with cultures and practices that confused the Burmese and made them resist the impositions being forced upon them. These are all cut and paste policies that fellow Asian & African countries have experienced by their colonial masters.Today the very countries responsible for marginalizing people into ‘ethnic’ groups are preaching equality for them without acknowledging their role in creating the mess!
Another important factor that needs to be never forgotten is thatbefore colonial invasions there were no such demarcations of ‘sovereign’ nationsas is understood presently.This necessarily erases claims of ‘national race’ on the basis that they inhabited an area before colonial rule. That argument however is irrelevant to Sri Lanka which has been an island and without borders.
According to Burma’s Citizenship Law passed in 1982 only those ethnic groups which were already in Burma in 1823 qualify as national races.”
Derek Tonkin, former British ambassador to Thailand and editor of the website Network Myanmar claims to have not found a single shred of evidence to prove the existence of a group of people named Rohingyas in British Colonial records. The basic criteria is missing, not only are Rohingyas not a race/ethnic group but they do not even have their own language. They speak Bengali, the language spoken by Bangladeshis. They are not stateless at all, they originally belonged to India and thereafter to Bangladesh following its independence!
Area of Arakan was taken in 1826 by the British after their victory in the First Anglo-Burmese War. The delta region including Rangoon (Lower Burma) was annexed in 1852 after the Second Anglo-Burmese War.The importance of Arakan is described by archeologist Emil Forchhammer in 1891 who says Arakanese Buddhism was the inspiration of the Buddhism practiced in the rest of Burma. How is it that today, another community is demanding share of it?
Arakan has a range of mountains isolating it from the Irrawaddy delta and central Burma. There was no clear border between Burma and Bengal (present day Bangladesh)
No amount of hype about discrimination can erase the fact that there is terrorism training taking place along the Bangladesh-Myanmar border and madrassas are being used as training centres!
The aim of these groups and their handlers is to annex part of Myanmar which Burmese claim is to set up an independent state called Newrosia and media is being prepared to counter Myanmar action by projecting attacks on innocent civilians.
Let us not forget that in 1947 Muslims from Arakan requested Mohammad Ali Jinnah to annex Mayu region to Pakistan (East Pakistan is today Bangladesh)Lets also not forget that Bangladesh was overwhelmingly Buddhist for many centuries though it only has 0.7% Buddhists now!
https://www.scribd.com/document/234552919/1947-Documents-are-Revealing-and-Relevant
What is relevant is that there was no reference to Rohingyas but Arakan Muslims”.So how did this term ‘Rohingyas’ all of a sudden emerge??? The 1947 request is amusingfor ‘Arakan Muslims’ claims they settled down in Arakan around 788 however it was in the 7thcentury that Islam began and Arakan was 5000miles away!It was only in the 13thcentury that Bengal area even started to become Muslim. The Buddhist University of Nalanda in India was destroyed by Muslim invaders in 12thcentury.
History Professor Aye Chan of Kanda University of Japan says that there is no Rohingya (as an ethnic group) in Myanmar, tracing back to centuries of Rakhine chronicle. He also confirmed thatthe existing problem was the bad legacy of the colonial rule for over one hundred year in Myanmar. He also raises a very important questionIf peaceful coexistence is the goal, then why is money being raised for a holy war?” He goes on to sayThere is request for cash donation to wage religious war (Jihad – – a holy war fought by Muslims to defend Islam). The handouts are distributed in the Islamic countries. Bank accounts for such donations are opened in Chittagong and Dhaka in Bangladesh. With such sinister scheme in the pipeline, will you believe the idea of peaceful coexistence with Rakhine nationals and Bengali?”
Prof. Chan concluded thatthe word Rohingya” was first introduced in an article in the then Guardian daily newspaper published in Yangon by a person named Mr. Abu Gaffer, nationalities representative of Buthitaung Township of Rakhine State in 1951.
The groundwork is already been laid out and UN is also been roped in no different to the role the UN played in the break up of Yugoslavia, creation of Kosovo, chaos in Iraq, Libya and now Syria. Is Myanmar equipped to deal with assymetrical warfare which has connivance of Islamic nations supporting terror groups and Western interest groups?
INCA News Agency Turkey has released videos & photos of Bengali-Muslim terrorists from RSO (Rohingya Solidarity Organization) receiving military training. In May 2011 the Arakan Rohingya Union was established with financial assistance from OIC, Saudi Arabia and Turkey!
The same news agency bragged about jihadists killing 25 Buddhist monks publishing the photos of dead and injured Buddhist monks.https://archive.org/details/ArakanVids

US State Dept Country Reports on Terrorism in 2008 & 2009 identifies the links of Islamic Rohingya Terrorists to their counterparts in Bangladesh & other countries. So, tell us how innocent are these Rohingyas? Then in 1992 Hakrat-ul-Jihad-al-Islami was formed with support from Osama bin Laden himself. This group is supposed to be led by Maulana Farid in Chittagong and is recruiting Bangladeshi’s from more than 60,000 madrassas and refer to themselves as Bangladeshi Taliban. Note Hillary Clinton admits US created Al Qaeda! A Wikileaks report also confirms that Osama bin Laden met with leaders of the Rohingyas on 15 May 2000.
The Rohingyas are so innocent that they have also developed ties with other Islamic militant groups –Gulbuddin Hekmatyr’s Hzb-e-Islami in Afghanistan, Hizb-ul-Mujahiden in Jammu & Kashir and the Angkatan Belia Islam sa Malaysia. In 2011 the Bangladeshi govt stated that at least 70 Islamic terrorist groups were operating in Bangladesh of which Islamic Rohingya Terrorists were also named – Rohingya Patriotic Front, Rohingya Solidarity Organization, Arakan Rohingya National Organization. It is obvious that these trained militant groups are being transported to all corners of the world and presented as ‘innocent’ to advance greater agendas.
The International Crisis Group in an interview to Deutsche Welle claimed that Rohingya insurgency has links with Saudi Arabia and Pakistan following the killing of 9 Myanmar policemen in 2016.But the whole international media attention is ONLY on Myanmar’s violations against Rohingyas without a single comment against Rohingyas being trained as Islamic jihadist terrorists, many of whom must be joining these jihadi camps purely for economic survival!
Take the social media, the press releases from governments and western government supporting NGOs and their 24×7 news will only be about persecutions against Rohingyas completely degrading Myanmar and the Buddhist majority populace. Nothing balanced whatsoever in the reporting. Even the one Buddhist monk who openly puts valid arguments forward is branded a Taliban terrorist when all of the murders have been thus far committed by these Islamic terror groups trained by Al Qaeda & ISIS.Why are their heinous crimes never highlighted or does it get highlighted only when someone in the West gets killed by an Islamic terrorist!No one has even spared a minute to listen to the other version. That is because any version is irrelevant because theplan of the West has nothing to do with Rohingyas or Buddhists but simply to grab Myanmars natural resources & put a foothold into a country that is nearer to China.
These are the people United Nations and Amnesty International claim to be the most persecuted refugees in the world.”Myanmar has every right to defend itself from these incursions and terrorist acts.
It is not out of any love for Rohingyas that the West and their ‘delivering democracy’ machines are now on a witch hunt against Myanmar.The easiest way to forcefully enter countries and forcefully make countries open up their borders and infuse systematic change in how these countries administer themselves is to use the ethno-religious minority card. That was how Kosovo was given liberation and so too was South Sudan. You may ask why the world is so gaga over an ethnic minority – it’s the natural resources all the time.Myanmar is rich in energy, precious stones, biomass (charcoal),11–23 trillion cubic feet in natural gas reserves and 50 million barrels of crude oil reserves, Myanmar accounts for 80 percent of global teak. Now the picture is getting clearer and everywhere the West shows interest there is always some jihadist backing! The West is doing a grave injustice in making a cocktail mess out of problems they originally created and left for countries to sort out by returning again to infuse more tensions and conflicts simply to walk away with the profits and plunder these countries again.
It is in this context Sri Lanka must stand with Myanmar as its Theravada roots are now being challenged and targeted using Islamic jihadism as a neocolonial imperial strategy.
What needs to be further highlighted is that no group of people claiming to be stateless has any business to take up arms and get trained in armed militancy and travel all over the world for training programs. This is where people who are supportive of the Rohingyas must also ponder what type of precedence this is creating.
The British used Indian sepoys to capture Burma while present day tactic is to use Sepoy international civil servants like the UN’s Christian Special Rapporteur. When Christians and Muslims close ranks whenever their people are pressed against the wall, it is time for Sri Lanka and the Buddhist world to come to the assistance of Myanmar and fellow Buddhist nations that are now targets of Western-Islamic-Christian incursions.
Sri Lanka Myanmar ties are longstanding. The first king of Bagan, Anawrahta arrived in 11th century to obtain a replica of the Tooth Relic from his friend Vijayabahu I. Myanmar also helped us when Cholas invaded. In the 12thcentury Yasawinkyi, King of Myanmar visited Sri Lanka.http://www.sundaytimes.lk/091108/Plus/plus_16.htmlBhikkhus mastered the Tripitaka introduced by Sri Lanka. Sinhala Bhikkhus received Higher Ordination back from Amarapura and Ramanna Bhikkhu lineages.http://arakanindobhasaa.blogspot.com/2014/04/sri-lanka-myanmar-historical-relations.html
Sri Lanka’s ties with Myanmar are special, longstanding and cannot be erased by governments who come to power on the strength of the anti-Buddhist lobby. It is the duty of the Buddhist public, the Buddhist organizations and the Maha Sangha as well as the Armed Forces to stand with Myanmar as they are being cornered by a well calculated and orchestrated global plot.
Shenali D Waduge
Totally agree with Shenali: Sri Lanka must stand toe-to-toe with the Burmese people of Myanmar to defend and protect their Theravada Buddhist heritage!
Bangladesh should control it’s Muslim people and prevent them from ENCROACHING into neighboring countries!
Look at the map.
BURMA-THAILAND-CAMBODIA-LAOS-VIETNAM should work as ONE unit in defence matters. They should form a powerful defence alliance. SL must join it.
This 6 member BUDDHIST alliance should work together to expel any threat.
ONE FOR ALL AND ALL FOR ONE alliance is needed.
MOST of these countries have excellent defence ties with ISRAEL. They should be further strengthened.
Shenali thanks.
Not only Bengalis went to Burma lots of other Indians went to Burma to grow rice to be exported to other Indian colonies. Most of the land was owned by Indians from other parts of the Indian sub continent. Three quarters of the arable land was owned or used by the Indians who worked the paddy fields. Bengalis were mainly laborers.
Mill owners were Indians. They exported rice and were imported by Indian Colonial Parasites in the Indian colonies. British were not directly involved with this cultivation, production and export of rice to feed the people of British Indian Colonies but provided support like providing Royal Charter to rice mills. Remember “millcharrd haal”. Best example is Ceylon where Indian Colonial Parasites mainly Tamils from Pettah were involved in this trade. It was exclusively in their hands and never allowed others to take part in the rice import and distribution that they did with other Indian imports like Urid and Lentils.
When Venerable Budhdha Rakkitha and Vimalaa Wijewardhana tendered for the import of rice from Burma and the Indian Importers ask SWRD to block it. He did block it and Banda was removed from earth. Banda had to follow the instruction of Indian Merchants who funded him and his party the SLFP.
When Burma expelled Rohigiyaas and other Indians from Burma some of the rich Indian Parasites settled in Colombo and set up Jewelry shops and other businesses in late fifties and sixties.
Some of these Indian Colonial Parasites in Burma are from the present day Indian Union and they should take their share. But India is using its power to hide their responsibility and use the West to attack Myanmar.
Thank you, Shenali, for your inestimable national service. Raising awareness among the young about the global Christian and Islamist fundamentalist menace is the need of the hour. We must include our young monks in this young category. I don’t know whether you write in Sinhala; probably, you don’t have the time, given the overwhelmingly large amount of web research you are doing to write these articles. The problem is that our traditional Mahanayakes have so little awareness of the grave fundamentalist threat that Buddhists are faced with. They are not equipped with the modern education that is vital for them to play the appropriate role that they ought to undertake. As far as Sri Lanka is concerned, education, to be worth calling such, must include an adequate level of English language proficiency in addition to mother tongue competency. Our monks should be able interact with their counterparts in other Buddhist countries, whether they are Theravada, Mahayana, or other. The laity also can similarly establish connections with Buddhist organisations in those countries. The Islamic bloc in the UN is powerful. Being the centre of Theravada Buddhism (the pristine form of Buddhism that is fast spreading in the world where reason is finally replacing faith based religion), Sri Lanka needs to work towards initiating a similar Buddhist bloc in the UN. This is work for future Mahanayakes who will emerge from among the enlightened young monks of today. Your sort of dedicated patriotic journalism, let us fervently hope, will stimulate interest among them.
ChristieIndian Colonial Parasites- Fully agreed with you , question is what We are doing to over come ( at least since 1948 to today).
Unless We-United as Mother Lanka no way out from Indian Colonial Parasites !!!!
You know Now why We-Ilankai Thamilar  kicked out IPKF even though they offered NEP in gold plate ( who’s land who offer?) .
All Colonised countries have a long struggle ahead to secure a lasting internal peace.  Sure there were conflicts in these countries prior to Colonisation, but after Colonisation the power shift to countries FAR AWAY, has left the Colonised countries struggling to survive even after they got their so called independence.Items lost through the ‘divide & rule’ principle are :Independence, Patriotism, Security, Self Respect as a Country, wealth & lives, LAND, etc.
Co-operation wherever possible ought to be done between ex-Colonised nations all over the world.NO ILLEGAL MIGRANTS, please !NO CHEAP LABOR from anywhere abroad either.
PATRIOTISM is the need of the hour.
On a related topic to ward off neo-Colonisation :
Re the Economy & Labor, some suggestions :
*  Go with Co-operatives wherever possible.  Good success ratings for Co-ops in the west.  About 15% of the total economy of America is taken up by the Co-op sector.*  Give tax breaks to Companies that have Worker Participation, to encourage Worker Participation even at Board level.  Germany, after WW II, had to do this by law, through American Pres Truman’s team (with no tax breaks).  Even during the recent recession the German economy did not suffer as production was kept up and salaries were paid to local workers with govt participation.  People had enough money to buy locally produced goods and the economy did not suffer.* Make sure that Glyphosate is NOT reintroduced to local Agriculture in Lanka.  There is a move to do so on some trumped up excuse re increasing tea production.  Tea estates are located Upcountry.  Glyphosate applied to soil there will trickle into the entire water system of the country resulting in disease.
Please write in ideas to boost the local economy …
Thank you, Shenali.In the 19th century the British Empire organised the mass migration of Bengali Muslims to Burma to work plantations in the predominantly Buddhist Rakhine State. The purpose of the migration was to create an artificial ruling class that would depend on the protection of the British Empire. The result was more than a century of tension with the indigenous Buddhist inhabitants and the Muslim settlers, a tension that has led to the ethnic cleansing of today, whereby Takfiri fanatics, financed by Pakistan and Saudi Arabia are committing genocide through muslim Bangladesh against local Buddhist peasants with the full complicity of UN, ‘human rights’ organizations and noble laureates, NGOs (George Soros) and the mass media as part of a US geostrategic initiative to “kossovise” the Rakhine State by separating it from Myanmar, thereby securing a foothold for Western neo-colonial interests in the highly strategic Bay of Bengal. The so-called ‘Rohingya crisis’ attests to a new phase in imperialist policy; namely, the ruthless weaponization of the refugee….The real victim here are the small indigenous Rakhine ethnic people from Myanmar (of about 3 million) who remain voiceless and unknown but who have been clinging to their Buddhist religion for over 2,500 years (the only people on earth who can claim that to be Buddhists since the time of Buddha) against the continuous onslaught of jihadi terror for centuries, while other countries in south east Asia like present day Pakistan, Bangladesh, Malaysia, Indonesia, etc.. have succumbed to islamization.It is time for predominantly Buddhist nations to form an international organization such as ORGANIZATION OF BUDDHIST NATIONS (OBN) not only to counter the threat from Muslim fundamentalism and Christian proselytism but also to have a united voice in world affairs
Continuing ethnic cleansing of Buddhists in Bangladesh:On 2 June, at least 250 houses belonging to Jumma (Chakma Buddhists) tribal people, the indigenous inhabitants of the Chittagong Hill Tracts in Bangladesh, have been burnt to the ground by (muslim) Bengali settlers. Read more athttp://www.survivalinternational.org/news/11704andhttp://www.eastern-today.com/entries/neighbours/several-killed-as-chakma-villages-torched-in-bangladesh
You must belogged into post a comment.


Disclaimer: The comments contained within this website are personal reflection only and do not necessarily reflect the views of the LankaWeb. LankaWeb.com offers the contents of this website without charge, but does not necessarily endorse the views and opinions expressed within. Neither the LankaWeb nor the individual authors of any material on this Web site accept responsibility for any loss or damage, however caused (including through negligence), which you may directly or indirectly suffer arising out of your use of or reliance on information contained on or accessed through this Web site. 
All views and opinions presented in this article are solely those of the surfer and do not necessarily represent those of LankaWeb.com.This entry was posted
												on Tuesday, June 20th, 2017.
						You can follow any responses to this entry through theRSS 2.0feed.

													You can skip to the end and leave a response.
Copyright © 2024 LankaWeb.com.  All Rights Reserved.Powered by Wordpress

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: Myanmar raids terrorist training camp, killing three | The Star
Friday, 23 Jun 2017
Yangon: Myanmar security forces have killed three people in raids on “terrorist” training camps run by Rohingya Muslim militants in the north of Rakhine state, state media reported.
Guns, ammunition and gunpowder were found at the camps in the Mayu Mountains, part of a remote strip of land on the northwest border that is mainly home to the persecuted Rohingya Muslim minority.
RM13.90/monthRM5/month
Billed as RM5/month for the 1st 6 months then RM13.90 thereafters.
RM12.33/month
Billed as RM148.00/year
Free Trial
For new subscribers only
Tags / Keywords:World,myanmar

Report it to us.
Thank you for your report!

Copyright © 1995-Star Media Group Berhad [197101000523 (10894-D)]
Best viewed on Chrome browsers.

We would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion. Kindly fill the form below
We hope you enjoy this feature!

Title: 
Fighting between Myanmar military, armed group brings about casualties - Xinhua | English.news.cn

YANGON, June 28 (Xinhua) -- Heavy fighting between Myanmar government forces and the ethnic Ta'ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) over the past week has brought about several casualties to the government side with four bodies of the armed group being claimed, Myanmar News Agency reported Wednesday.
The clashes followed the uncovering of a secret training camp of the TNLA, about 2 km northeast of Manlan village, Shan state's Namsang township.
The week-long fightings from June 20 to 26 have forced the TNLA forces to withdraw toward the west and northwest, the Defense Services Office was quoted as saying.
A large number of arms and ammunition were also seized by the military, the report added.
TNLA is one of the non-signatories to the government's Nationwide Cease fire Accord (NCA).
According to the Defense Services Office, TNLA also joined the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), another non-ceasefire signatory, in attacking a military outpost in Kutkai in northern Shan state with artillery rounds on Tuesday, killing two civilians and wounding one other.
China fully capable of delivering 2017 growth goals: premier
Summer Davos Forum opens in Dalian, NE China
Senior Ukrainian intelligence officer killed in car blast in Kiev
NY subway derailed with 30-plus injured
In pics: woodblock movable type printing in C China
Muslims celebrate Eid al-Fitr worldwide
Plane Pull fundraising campaign held in Vancouver, Canada
China to launch Long March-5 Y2 in early July

Title:  页面没有找到 


Title: Myanmar's Military Arrests Three Journalists in Shan State | TIME
Myanmar’s military has detained seven people, including three journalists, in the country’s war-torn northern Shan State, raising fears of a further crackdown against the country’s already restricted press.
TheIrrawaddyreportsthat the men were arrested on suspicion of liaising with members of an ethnic rebel armed group, the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), likely under a vague, junta-era “unlawful association” law often used to suppress dissent. A senior reporter for the news website was among those detained.
Astatementposted by the commander-in-chief’s Facebook page said the group was detained Monday after observing a drug burning event organized by the TNLA, which is one of more than 20 non-state groups fighting the government. The Myanmar government had organized similar events elsewhere to mark the U.N.’s International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking,according tothe Associated Press.
The commander’s statement said the three reporters — Lawi Weng of theIrrawaddy,Aye Nai and Pyae Phone Naing of the broadcaster Democratic Voice of Burma (DVB) — and four other unidentified detainees were accused of “connection to the TNLA terrorist group” and had been handed over to police for further questioning and possible arraignment, AP reports.
Read More:Aung San Suu Kyi Had a Plan to Bring Peace to Myanmar. But Convincing Others Hasn’t Been So Easy
Myanmar was ruled by a brutal dictatorship until 2011, when it began atransitionto civilian rule. The country is home to one of the world’s longest and most complex civil wars, and it’s fragile peace process isfaltering. Despite the lifting of state censorship in 2012, Myanmar’s nascent national media is still subject to tight restrictions, dangerous environments and repressive laws.
In astatementissued soon after their detention, Amnesty International called for the journalists’ immediate release. “Their arrests send a chilling message to Myanmar’s already embattled media,” James Gomez, Amnesty’s Director for Southeast Asia and the Pacific said.
“It is the nature of the work of journalists to go and cover news and stories,” DVB’s Rangoon bureau chief Toe Zaw Latt told the AP. “They are not violating any laws.”
[Irrawaddy,AP]
Write toJoseph Hincksatjoseph.hincks@time.com

Title: No title found


Title: Families decry case against Myanmar reporters
YANGON: Family and colleagues of three Myanmar journalists who face up to three years in prison on charges of contacting ethnic rebels appealed for their release on Thursday, in a case that has raised concerns about Myanmar’s transition to democracy.
The men have been accused of breaching the colonial-era Unlawful Associations Act after covering an event on Monday where the rebel Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) burned piles of narcotics to mark International Day Against Drug Abuse.
“We don’t really think our journalists have working relations with the TNLA group, which the government calls terrorists,” said Than Win Htut, planning editor at the Democratic Voice of Burma (DVB), the employer of two of the journalists.
“They are just doing a journalist’s job.  “The TNLA, which demands more autonomy for the Ta’ang ethnic group, regularly clashes with government forces.
Broadcaster DVB’s Aye Nai and Pyae Phone Naing, and Lawi Weng of the Irrawaddy magazine, were remanded along with three others in Hsipaw prison, in northern Shan State, on Wednesday.
A screengrab from a video shows Malian security personnel detaining a suspect in the capital Bamako on September 17,...
The front cover of the Arab American News with the lead story of ‘the electoral voice of Arabs and Muslims in...
NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg.— Reuters/file BRUSSELS: Outgoing NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg will caution the United...
Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, a Sikh leader and close ally of Hardeep Singh Nijjar. —...
Internally displaced Ethiopians queue to receive food aid in the Higlo camp for people displaced by drought in the...
The logo of X, formerly Twitter, can be seen on top of a building in this undated image. — X/FileBRASILIA: Brazil´s...
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: Tatmadaw, armed groups committed ‘war crimes’ against civilians in Kachin, northern Shan: Amnesty | Frontier Myanmar
By SEAN GLEESON | FRONTIER
YANGON — Civilians caught in the middle of the ongoing conflicts in Myanmar’s north have been forced to suffer through torture, disappearances, forced labour and restrictions on humanitarian access, with fears on the ground that clashes will intensify in the months ahead, according to a new report by Amnesty International.
Surveying the past 12 months of clashes in Kachin and northern Shan states, Wednesday’s report by the London-based human rights group said that civilians in the area live in a “constant state of fear and harassment”.
In Shan State in particular, Amnesty accused the military of failing to distinguish between civilians and combatants, and in some cases inflicting collective punishment on civilian populations.
“The most egregious violations tend to occur either as the Myanmar Army starts a specific operation or after it loses soldiers or territory, even briefly, to an ethnic armed group,” the report said. “Several experts on northern Myanmar said the Army’s embarrassment is the greatest predictor of crimes against civilians.”

Support more independent journalism like this.Sign up to be a Frontier member.
According to Amnesty’s research, the military was responsible for at least 25 extrajudicial executions in the past year. In one case in November 2016, following an engagement with the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army, two residents of Nam Khye Ho village near Mong Ko said that soldiers had shot dead 18 of their civilian neighbours.
Elsewhere, the report documents the military’s use of civilian forced labour to porter equipment around conflict areas; the “indiscriminate” shelling of civilian areas, including camps for those already displaced by the conflict; and the ongoing denial of humanitarian access to displaced civilians living outside areas controlled by the government.
“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted with near total impunity, said Amnesty’s Matthew Wells in a Wednesday press release. “This must change urgently, with those responsible for atrocities brought to book.”
Ethnic armed groups operating in both theatres have also been accused of egregious rights violations, according to civilian testimony in the report.
Both the Shan State Army-South, the armed wing of the Restoration Council of Shan State, and the Ta’ang National Liberation Army have been accused of abductions and the possible killing of civilians, following months of clashes between the two groups last year.
The RCSS is one of eight signatories to the government’s 2015 Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement, while the TNLA is one of three groups operating in northern Shan State that has been excluded from the peace process.
Along with the SSA-S, TNLA and MNDAA, the Kachin Independence Army and pro-government militias were accused of recruiting child soldiers. The KIA denied the claim in an interview with Amnesty’s researchers.
Several humanitarian officials told Amnesty that armed groups in northern Shan State had heightened increased both forced and child recruitment since the beginning of 2017.
June 9 marked the sixth anniversary of the resumption of hostilities between the KIA and the military. More than 120,000 people have been displaced by the conflict in that time.
SHARE

Support our independent journalism and get exclusive behind-the-scenes content and analysis
Stay on top of Myanmar current affairs with our Daily Briefing and Media Monitor newsletters.
Sign up for our Frontier Fridays newsletter. It’s a free weekly round-up featuring the most important events shaping Myanmar
© 2024 Frontier Myanmar
This post is also available in:English

Title: Tatmadaw, armed groups committed ‘war crimes’ against civilians in Kachin, northern Shan: Amnesty | Frontier Myanmar
By SEAN GLEESON | FRONTIER
YANGON — Civilians caught in the middle of the ongoing conflicts in Myanmar’s north have been forced to suffer through torture, disappearances, forced labour and restrictions on humanitarian access, with fears on the ground that clashes will intensify in the months ahead, according to a new report by Amnesty International.
Surveying the past 12 months of clashes in Kachin and northern Shan states, Wednesday’s report by the London-based human rights group said that civilians in the area live in a “constant state of fear and harassment”.
In Shan State in particular, Amnesty accused the military of failing to distinguish between civilians and combatants, and in some cases inflicting collective punishment on civilian populations.
“The most egregious violations tend to occur either as the Myanmar Army starts a specific operation or after it loses soldiers or territory, even briefly, to an ethnic armed group,” the report said. “Several experts on northern Myanmar said the Army’s embarrassment is the greatest predictor of crimes against civilians.”

Support more independent journalism like this.Sign up to be a Frontier member.
According to Amnesty’s research, the military was responsible for at least 25 extrajudicial executions in the past year. In one case in November 2016, following an engagement with the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army, two residents of Nam Khye Ho village near Mong Ko said that soldiers had shot dead 18 of their civilian neighbours.
Elsewhere, the report documents the military’s use of civilian forced labour to porter equipment around conflict areas; the “indiscriminate” shelling of civilian areas, including camps for those already displaced by the conflict; and the ongoing denial of humanitarian access to displaced civilians living outside areas controlled by the government.
“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted with near total impunity, said Amnesty’s Matthew Wells in a Wednesday press release. “This must change urgently, with those responsible for atrocities brought to book.”
Ethnic armed groups operating in both theatres have also been accused of egregious rights violations, according to civilian testimony in the report.
Both the Shan State Army-South, the armed wing of the Restoration Council of Shan State, and the Ta’ang National Liberation Army have been accused of abductions and the possible killing of civilians, following months of clashes between the two groups last year.
The RCSS is one of eight signatories to the government’s 2015 Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement, while the TNLA is one of three groups operating in northern Shan State that has been excluded from the peace process.
Along with the SSA-S, TNLA and MNDAA, the Kachin Independence Army and pro-government militias were accused of recruiting child soldiers. The KIA denied the claim in an interview with Amnesty’s researchers.
Several humanitarian officials told Amnesty that armed groups in northern Shan State had heightened increased both forced and child recruitment since the beginning of 2017.
June 9 marked the sixth anniversary of the resumption of hostilities between the KIA and the military. More than 120,000 people have been displaced by the conflict in that time.
SHARE

Support our independent journalism and get exclusive behind-the-scenes content and analysis
Stay on top of Myanmar current affairs with our Daily Briefing and Media Monitor newsletters.
Sign up for our Frontier Fridays newsletter. It’s a free weekly round-up featuring the most important events shaping Myanmar
© 2024 Frontier Myanmar
This post is also available in:English

Title: Myanmar: Ethnic minorities face war crimes in northern conflict
14 June 2017
Civilians from minority ethnic groups suffer appalling violations and abuses, including war crimes, at the hands of Myanmar’s military and ethnic armed groups in the country’s Kachin and northern Shan states, Amnesty International said in a new report based on three recent visits to the conflict area.
‘All the Civilians Suffer’: Conflict, Displacement and Abuse in Northern Myanmar’details how soldiers from the Tatmadaw, as Myanmar’s Armed Forces are known, commit torture and extrajudicial executions, shell civilian villages indiscriminately and place punitive restrictions on movement and humanitarian access.
Read the report
Meanwhile, some ethnic armed groups at times abduct civilians perceived to support an opposing party, forcibly recruit men, women and children into their fighting forces and impose “taxes” on impoverished villagers trapped in the conflict.
“Almost 100,000 people have been torn away from their homes and farms due to conflict and human rights violations in northern Myanmar. All sides must protect civilians amid the conflict and the Myanmar authorities need to immediately end the humanitarian access restrictions that have further harmed this already-vulnerable population,” said Matthew Wells, Senior Crisis Response Advisor at Amnesty International.
“The international community is familiar with the appalling abuses suffered by the Rohingya minority in Myanmar’s Rakhine state, but in Kachin and northern Shan states we found a similarly shocking pattern in the Army’s targeting of other ethnic minorities.”
“The international community is familiar with the appalling abuses suffered by the Rohingya minority in Myanmar’s Rakhine state, but in Kachin and northern Shan states we found a similarly shocking pattern in the Army’s targeting of other ethnic minorities.”
The United Nations Human Rights Council has established an international Fact Finding Mission to investigate abuses in Myanmar with a focus on Rakhine State.
“Australia, as one of the 11 donors of the Joint Peace Fund and one of the main donors to the Peace Support Fund, should call on the UN Fact Finding Mission to expand its investigation to human rights violations and abuses in Kachin and northern Shan State,” said Amnesty International Australia’s Crisis Campaigns Co-ordinator Diana Sayed.
Amnesty International conducted more than 140 interviews on the ground between March and May 2017, following renewed fighting since August 2016 in Kachin and northern Shan states, which border China. The organisation visited towns and villages in areas affected by fighting as well as 10 camps for internally displaced persons (IDPs), and spoke to civilian victims and eyewitnesses, community leaders and humanitarian officials.
More than 98,000 civilians are currently displaced in northern Myanmar amid fierce fighting between the Myanmar Armed Forces and various ethnic armed groups in the area, including the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), the Arakan Army (AA), and the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA).
Myanmar’s government has exacerbated the difficulties for many displaced persons by restricting humanitarian access to certain affected areas, particularly those controlled by armed groups. Humanitarian officials said this undermined their ability to respond quickly to emergency situations and to provide necessary humanitarian assistance like shelter, access to water, and sanitation.
Since fighting escalated in November 2016, the Myanmar Army has committed egregious violations against civilians, sometimes amounting to war crimes, which continued through Amnesty International’s final research mission in May 2017.
The report documents nine incidents in northern Shan state where Myanmar Army troops arbitrarily detained and tortured civilians from ethnic minorities.
In the town of Monekoe in late November 2016, the Army arbitrarily detained 150 men, women and children who were preparing for a wedding. After releasing the women and children, as well as men from certain ethnic groups, the Army used the remaining men as human shields along the inner perimeter of a hilltop base; several were killed and others were seriously wounded by gun and grenade fire.
The report also documents two cases of enforced disappearance of ethnic minority civilians and four incidents of extrajudicial executions by the Myanmar Army since mid-2016, involving at least 25 victims.
Eighteen young men were killed in a single massacre at Nam Hkye Ho village in late November 2016. Amnesty International interviewed two eyewitnesses who said that around 100 Myanmar Army soldiers entered the village after fighting nearby with the MNDAA. Most of the village, including the women and children, had fled as fighting approached; after letting the remaining elderly men go, the soldiers marched the young men off at gunpoint. A short while later, fleeing villagers heard the sound of gunfire from the direction in which the soldiers had left.
The surviving villagers fled across the border to China, and when they returned several weeks later, found the remains of bodies dumped in two mass graves.
“We saw charred remains of what looked like a body. [There were] bones, but it was mostly ashes. We saw some of the [belongings]. … We already knew the 18 people were missing,” an elderly villager told Amnesty International.
The report documents how the Myanmar Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law by failing to distinguish between civilian and military targets when firing mortar shells.
In one instance on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village, northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty International.
The Army also continues to forcibly conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.
Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and 99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face investigation, much less prosecution, even for war crimes.
“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the UN-established independent, international fact-finding mission,” said Matthew Wells.
“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the UN-established independent, international fact-finding mission.”
While many ethnic minority civilians see armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses from these groups.
Various armed groups use forced conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes” on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods from communities that are already vulnerable due to the conflict.
Amnesty International documented a total of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state. People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their families still have no information about their whereabouts, raising fears about summary killings.
Both the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm civilians, including children, going to work on the family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.
All sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting violations by all sides to the conflicts.
The UN Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced independent, international fact-finding mission is fully resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and international donor countries must call for an end to restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their assistance to those affected by the conflict.
“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritised the ongoing national peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew Wells.
Copyright © Amnesty International Australia ABN: 640 0280 6233. We acknowledge the Traditional Owners of this land and pay our respects to their Elders past and present. We acknowledge that this land was and always will be Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander land. WARNING: This website may contain images or names of people who have passed away.
Copyright © Amnesty International Australia ABN: 640 0280 6233. We acknowledge the Traditional Owners of this land and pay our respects to their Elders past and present. We acknowledge that this land was and always will be Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander land. WARNING: This website may contain images or names of people who have passed away.

Title: What Languages Are Spoken In Myanmar (Burma)? - WorldAtlas
Nearly 100 languages are spoken in Myanmar (Burma). The most popular among them is the Burmese which is spoken by two-thirds of the country’s population. English is a popular foreign language in the country.
The official language of Myanmar is Burmese. It is also the most widely spoken language in the country. Burmese, a Sino-Tibetan language, is the mother tongue of millions of Bamar people who speak it as a first language. Burmese is also spoken by the Mon ethnic minority group and some other minority ethnic groups in Myanmar. The Burmese language is related to the Chinese and Tibetan languages. The script used to write Burmese was developed in the 5th century from a southern Indian script. Burmese is taught in schools across the country and in the numerous monasteries dotting Myanmar. The language is age-oriented and includes the usage of honorifics. About 32 million people speak Burmese as their first language. Another 10 million people speak it as a second language.
The Shan language is a native language of Myanmar that is spoken by the Shan people. The language is mostly spoken in the country’s Shan State. It is also spoken in some parts of Burma’s Kachin state as well. The Shan language belongs to the Tai–Kadai language family. Approximately 3.2 million people speak the Shan language.
The Karen languages are a group of tonal languages spoken by the Karen people of Myanmar. The language is classified into three primary branches, namely the Pwo, Sqaw, and the Pa'o. The languages are written using the Burmese script.
A significant number of people of the Kachin State of Burma speak the Kachin or Jingpho language, a member of the Sino-Tibetan language family. About 900,000 ethnic Kachins speak the Kachin language in Burma.
The Mon language, an Austroasiatic language, is spoken by about 750,000 Mon people living in Myanmar. Not all Mon people in the country speak this language since a significant section of the Mon population here are monolingual in Burmese. Most of the Mon speakers in Myanmar live in the Mon State of the country. The Katyin State and the Tanintharyi Region also has significant Mon speaking populations.
Several other minority languages are spoken by the various ethnic communities living in Myanmar.
English is an important foreign language whose study is highly promoted in Myanmar. Although Burmese is used as the primary language of instruction in schools across the country, English is taught as a secondary language. For a period in the past (from the end of the 19th century to 1964), English was taught as used as the primary language of instruction in the nation's educational institutes.
All maps, graphics, flags, photos and original descriptions © 2024 worldatlas.com

Title: Myanmar: "All the Civilians Suffer": Conflict, Displacement, and Abuse in Northern Myanmar [EN/MY] - Myanmar | ReliefWeb
Myanmar
Civilians from minority ethnic groups suffer appalling violations and abuses, including war crimes, at the hands of Myanmar’s military and ethnic armed groups in the country’s Kachin and northern Shan States, Amnesty International said today in a new report based on three recent trips to the conflict area.
‘All the Civilians Suffer’: Conflict, Displacement and Abuse in Northern Myanmardetails how soldiers from the Tatmadaw, as Myanmar’s Armed Forces are known, mete out torture and extrajudicial executions, shell civilian villages indiscriminately and place punitive restrictions on movement and humanitarian access.
Meanwhile, some ethnic armed groups at times abduct civilians seen to support an opposing party, forcibly recruit men, women and children into their fighting forces and impose “taxes” on impoverished villagers trapped in the conflict.
“Almost 100,000 people have been torn away from their homes and farms due to conflict and human rights violations in northern Myanmar. All sides must protect civilians amid the conflict and the Myanmar authorities need to immediately end the humanitarian access restrictions that have further harmed this already-vulnerable population,” said Matthew Wells, Senior Crisis Advisor at Amnesty International.
“The international community is familiar with the appalling abuses suffered by the Rohingya minority in Myanmar’s Rakhine state, but in Kachin and northern Shan States we found a similarly shocking pattern in the Army’s targeting of other ethnic minorities.”
Amnesty International conducted more than 140 interviews on the ground between March and May 2017, following renewed fighting since August 2016 in Kachin and northern Shan states, which border China. The organization visited towns and villages in areas affected by fighting as well as 10 camps for internally displaced persons (IDPs), and spoke to civilian victims and eyewitnesses, community leaders and humanitarian officials.
Displacement crisis
More than 98,000 civilians are currently displaced in northern Myanmar amid fierce fighting between the Myanmar Armed Forces and various ethnic armed groups in the area, including the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), the Arakan Army (AA), and the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA).
Myanmar’s government has exacerbated the difficulties for many displaced persons by restricting humanitarian access to certain affected areas, particularly those controlled by armed groups. Humanitarian officials said this undermined their ability to respond quickly to emergency situations and to provide necessary humanitarian assistance like shelter, access to water, and sanitation.
Violations by the Myanmar Army
Since fighting escalated in November 2016, the Myanmar Army has committed egregious violations against civilians, sometimes amounting to war crimes, which continued through Amnesty International’s final research mission in May 2017.
The report documents nine incidents in northern Shan state where Myanmar Army troops arbitrarily detained and tortured civilians from ethnic minorities.
In the town of Monekoe in late November 2016, the Army arbitrarily detained 150 men, women and children who were preparing for a wedding. After releasing the women and children, as well as men from certain ethnic groups, the Army used the remaining men as human shields along the inner perimeter of a hilltop base; several were killed and others were seriously wounded by gun and grenade fire.
The report also documents two cases of enforced disappearance of ethnic minority civilians and four incidents of extrajudicial executions by the Myanmar Army since mid-2016, involving at least 25 victims.
Eighteen young men were killed in a single massacre at Nam Hkye Ho village in late November 2016. Amnesty International interviewed two eyewitnesses who said that around 100 Myanmar Army soldiers entered the village after fighting nearby with the MNDAA. Most of the village, including the women and children, had fled as fighting approached; after letting the remaining elderly men go, the soldiers marched the young men off at gunpoint. A short while later, fleeing villagers heard the sound of gunfire from the direction in which the soldiers had left.
The surviving villagers fled across the border to China, and when they returned several weeks later, found the remains of bodies dumped in two mass graves.
“We saw charred remains of what looked like a body. [There were] bones, but it was mostly ashes. We saw some of the [belongings]. … We already knew the 18 people were missing,” an elderly villager told Amnesty International.
The report documents how the Myanmar Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law by failing to distinguish between civilian and military targets when firing mortar shells.
In one instance on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village, northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty International.
The Army also continues to forcibly conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.
Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and 99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face investigation, much less prosecution, even for war crimes.
“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the UN-established independent, international fact-finding mission,” said Matthew Wells.
Abuses by armed groups
While many ethnic minority civilians see armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses from these groups.
Various armed groups use forced conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes” on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods from communities that are already vulnerable due to the conflict.
Amnesty International documented a total of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state. People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their families still have no information about their whereabouts, raising fears about summary killings.
Landmines and IEDs
Both the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm civilians, including children, going to work on the family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.
All sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting violations by all sides to the conflicts.
The UN Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced independent, international fact-finding mission is fully resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and international donor countries must call for an end to restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their assistance to those affected by the conflict.
“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew Wells.
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: All the Civilians Suffer: Conflict, Displacement and Abuse in Northern Myanmar | Amnesty International USA
Sheet of paperReport
June 14, 2017
‘All the Civilians Suffer’: Conflict, Displacement and Abuse in Northern Myanmardetails how soldiers from theTatmadaw, as Myanmar’s Armed Forces are known, mete out torture and extrajudicial executions, shell civilian villages indiscriminately and place punitive restrictions on movement and humanitarian access.
Meanwhile, some ethnic armed groups at times abduct civilians seen to support an opposing party, forcibly recruit men, women and children into their fighting forces and impose “taxes” on impoverished villagers trapped in the conflict.
“Almost 100,000 people have been torn away from their homes and farms due to conflict and human rights violations in northern Myanmar. All sides must protect civilians amid the conflict and the Myanmar authorities need to immediately end the humanitarian access restrictions that have further harmed this already-vulnerable population,” said Matthew Wells, Senior Crisis Response Advisor at Amnesty International.
“The international community is familiar with the appalling abuses suffered by the Rohingya minority in Myanmar’s Rakhine state, but in Kachin and northern Shan states we found a similarly shocking pattern in the Army’s targeting of other ethnic minorities.”
Amnesty International conducted more than 140 interviews on the ground between March and May 2017, following renewed fighting since August 2016 in Kachin and northern Shan states, which border China. The organization visited towns and villages in areas affected by fighting as well as 10 camps for internally displaced persons (IDPs), and spoke to civilian victims and eyewitnesses, community leaders and humanitarian officials.
Displacement crisis
More than 98,000 civilians are currently displaced in northern Myanmar amid fierce fighting between the Myanmar Armed Forces and various ethnic armed groups in the area, including the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), the Arakan Army (AA), and the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA).
Myanmar’s government has exacerbated the difficulties for many displaced persons by restricting humanitarian access to certain affected areas, particularly those controlled by armed groups. Humanitarian officials said this undermined their ability to respond quickly to emergency situations and to provide necessary humanitarian assistance like shelter, access to water, and sanitation.
Violations by the Myanmar Army
Since fighting escalated in November 2016, the Myanmar Army has committed egregious violations against civilians, sometimes amounting to war crimes, which continued through Amnesty International’s final research mission in May 2017.
The report documents nine incidents in northern Shan state where Myanmar Army troops arbitrarily detained and tortured civilians from ethnic minorities.
In the town of Monekoe in late November 2016, the Army arbitrarily detained 150 men, women and children who were preparing for a wedding. After releasing the women and children, as well as men from certain ethnic groups, the Army used the remaining men as human shields along the inner perimeter of a hilltop base; several were killed and others were seriously wounded by gun and grenade fire.
The report also documents two cases of enforced disappearance of ethnic minority civilians and four incidents of extrajudicial executions by the Myanmar Army since mid-2016, involving at least 25 victims.
Eighteen young men were killed in a single massacre at Nam Hkye Ho village in late November 2016. Amnesty International interviewed two eyewitnesses who said that around 100 Myanmar Army soldiers entered the village after fighting nearby with the MNDAA. Most of the village, including the women and children, had fled as fighting approached; after letting the remaining elderly men go, the soldiers marched the young men off at gunpoint. A short while later, fleeing villagers heard the sound of gunfire from the direction in which the soldiers had left.
The surviving villagers fled across the border to China, and when they returned several weeks later, found the remains of bodies dumped in two mass graves.
“We saw charred remains of what looked like a body. [There were] bones, but it was mostly ashes. We saw some of the [belongings]. … We already knew the 18 people were missing,” an elderly villager told Amnesty International.
The report documents how the Myanmar Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law by failing to distinguish between civilian and military targets when firing mortar shells.
In one instance on January 12, 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village, northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty International.
The Army also continues to forcibly conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.
Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and 99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face investigation, much less prosecution, even for war crimes.
“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the UN-established independent, international fact-finding mission,” said Wells.
Abuses by armed groups
While many ethnic minority civilians see armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses from these groups.
Various armed groups use forced conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes” on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods from communities that are already vulnerable due to the conflict.
Amnesty International documented a total of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state. People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their families still have no information about their whereabouts, raising fears about summary killings.
Landmines and IEDs
Both the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm civilians, including children, going to work on the family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.
All sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting violations by all sides to the conflicts.
The UN Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced independent, international fact-finding mission is fully resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and international donor countries must call for an end to restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their assistance to those affected by the conflict.
“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Wells.
Join us and build a world where human rights are enjoyed by all.
Δ
Follow Us
AmnestyUSA
© 2024 Amnesty International USA

Title: 
Myanmar Ethnic Minorities Face Range of Violations | Scoop News

World Video|Defence|Foreign Affairs|Natural Events|Trade|NZ in World News|NZ National News Video|NZ Regional News|Search
Civilians from minority ethnic groups suffer appalling
violations and abuses, including war crimes, at the hands of
Myanmar’s military and ethnic armed groups in the
country’s Kachin and northern Shan states, Amnesty
International said today in a new report based on three
recent trips to the conflict area.‘All the
Civilians Suffer’: Conflict, Displacement and Abuse in
Northern Myanmar details how soldiers from theTatmadaw, as
Myanmar’s Armed Forces are known, mete out torture and
extrajudicial executions, shell civilian villages
indiscriminately and place punitive restrictions on movement
and humanitarian access.Meanwhile, some ethnic
armed groups at times abduct civilians seen to support an
opposing party, forcibly recruit men, women and children
into their fighting forces and impose “taxes” on
impoverished villagers trapped in the conflict.“Almost 100,000 people have been torn away from their
homes and farms due to conflict and human rights violations
in northern Myanmar. All sides must protect civilians amid
the conflict and the Myanmar authorities need to immediately
end the humanitarian access restrictions that have further
harmed this already-vulnerable population,” said Matthew
Wells, Senior Crisis Response Advisor at Amnesty
International.“The international community is
familiar with the appalling abuses suffered by the Rohingya
minority in Myanmar’s Rakhine state, but in Kachin and
northern Shan states we found a similarly shocking pattern
in the Army’s targeting of other ethnic minorities.”Amnesty International conducted more than 140 interviews
on the ground between March and May 2017, following renewed
fighting since August 2016 in Kachin and northern Shan
states, which border China. The organization visited towns
and villages in areas affected by fighting as well as 10
camps for internally displaced persons (IDPs), and spoke to
civilian victims and eyewitnesses, community leaders and
humanitarian officials.Displacement crisisMore than 98,000 civilians are currently displaced in
northern Myanmar amid fierce fighting between the Myanmar
Armed Forces and various ethnic armed groups in the area,
including the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), the Ta’ang
National Liberation Army (TNLA), the Arakan Army (AA), and
the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA).Myanmar’s government has exacerbated the difficulties
for many displaced persons by restricting humanitarian
access to certain affected areas, particularly those
controlled by armed groups. Humanitarian officials said this
undermined their ability to respond quickly to emergency
situations and to provide necessary humanitarian assistance
like shelter, access to water, and sanitation.Violations by the Myanmar ArmySince fighting
escalated in November 2016, the Myanmar Army has committed
egregious violations against civilians, sometimes amounting
to war crimes, which continued through Amnesty
International’s final research mission in May 2017.The report documents nine incidents in northern Shan
state where Myanmar Army troops arbitrarily detained and
tortured civilians from ethnic minorities.In the
town of Monekoe in late November 2016, the Army arbitrarily
detained 150 men, women and children who were preparing for
a wedding. After releasing the women and children, as well
as men from certain ethnic groups, the Army used the
remaining men as human shields along the inner perimeter of
a hilltop base; several were killed and others were
seriously wounded by gun and grenade fire.The
report also documents two cases of enforced disappearance of
ethnic minority civilians and four incidents of
extrajudicial executions by the Myanmar Army since mid-2016,
involving at least 25 victims.Eighteen young men
were killed in a single massacre at Nam Hkye Ho village in
late November 2016. Amnesty International interviewed two
eyewitnesses who said that around 100 Myanmar Army soldiers
entered the village after fighting nearby with the MNDAA.
Most of the village, including the women and children, had
fled as fighting approached; after letting the remaining
elderly men go, the soldiers marched the young men off at
gunpoint. A short while later, fleeing villagers heard the
sound of gunfire from the direction in which the soldiers
had left.The surviving villagers fled across the
border to China, and when they returned several weeks later,
found the remains of bodies dumped in two mass graves.“We saw charred remains of what looked like a body.
[There were] bones, but it was mostly ashes. We saw some of
the [belongings]. … We already knew the 18 people were
missing,” an elderly villager told Amnesty
International.The report documents how the Myanmar
Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law
by failing to distinguish between civilian and military
targets when firing mortar shells.In one instance
on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of
villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village,
northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a
young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the
Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was
almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and
fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty
International.The Army also continues to forcibly
conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often
linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin
men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA
attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for
signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a
shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
‘All the
Civilians Suffer’: Conflict, Displacement and Abuse in
Northern Myanmar details how soldiers from theTatmadaw, as
Myanmar’s Armed Forces are known, mete out torture and
extrajudicial executions, shell civilian villages
indiscriminately and place punitive restrictions on movement
and humanitarian access.Meanwhile, some ethnic
armed groups at times abduct civilians seen to support an
opposing party, forcibly recruit men, women and children
into their fighting forces and impose “taxes” on
impoverished villagers trapped in the conflict.“Almost 100,000 people have been torn away from their
homes and farms due to conflict and human rights violations
in northern Myanmar. All sides must protect civilians amid
the conflict and the Myanmar authorities need to immediately
end the humanitarian access restrictions that have further
harmed this already-vulnerable population,” said Matthew
Wells, Senior Crisis Response Advisor at Amnesty
International.“The international community is
familiar with the appalling abuses suffered by the Rohingya
minority in Myanmar’s Rakhine state, but in Kachin and
northern Shan states we found a similarly shocking pattern
in the Army’s targeting of other ethnic minorities.”Amnesty International conducted more than 140 interviews
on the ground between March and May 2017, following renewed
fighting since August 2016 in Kachin and northern Shan
states, which border China. The organization visited towns
and villages in areas affected by fighting as well as 10
camps for internally displaced persons (IDPs), and spoke to
civilian victims and eyewitnesses, community leaders and
humanitarian officials.Displacement crisisMore than 98,000 civilians are currently displaced in
northern Myanmar amid fierce fighting between the Myanmar
Armed Forces and various ethnic armed groups in the area,
including the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), the Ta’ang
National Liberation Army (TNLA), the Arakan Army (AA), and
the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA).Myanmar’s government has exacerbated the difficulties
for many displaced persons by restricting humanitarian
access to certain affected areas, particularly those
controlled by armed groups. Humanitarian officials said this
undermined their ability to respond quickly to emergency
situations and to provide necessary humanitarian assistance
like shelter, access to water, and sanitation.Violations by the Myanmar ArmySince fighting
escalated in November 2016, the Myanmar Army has committed
egregious violations against civilians, sometimes amounting
to war crimes, which continued through Amnesty
International’s final research mission in May 2017.The report documents nine incidents in northern Shan
state where Myanmar Army troops arbitrarily detained and
tortured civilians from ethnic minorities.In the
town of Monekoe in late November 2016, the Army arbitrarily
detained 150 men, women and children who were preparing for
a wedding. After releasing the women and children, as well
as men from certain ethnic groups, the Army used the
remaining men as human shields along the inner perimeter of
a hilltop base; several were killed and others were
seriously wounded by gun and grenade fire.The
report also documents two cases of enforced disappearance of
ethnic minority civilians and four incidents of
extrajudicial executions by the Myanmar Army since mid-2016,
involving at least 25 victims.Eighteen young men
were killed in a single massacre at Nam Hkye Ho village in
late November 2016. Amnesty International interviewed two
eyewitnesses who said that around 100 Myanmar Army soldiers
entered the village after fighting nearby with the MNDAA.
Most of the village, including the women and children, had
fled as fighting approached; after letting the remaining
elderly men go, the soldiers marched the young men off at
gunpoint. A short while later, fleeing villagers heard the
sound of gunfire from the direction in which the soldiers
had left.The surviving villagers fled across the
border to China, and when they returned several weeks later,
found the remains of bodies dumped in two mass graves.“We saw charred remains of what looked like a body.
[There were] bones, but it was mostly ashes. We saw some of
the [belongings]. … We already knew the 18 people were
missing,” an elderly villager told Amnesty
International.The report documents how the Myanmar
Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law
by failing to distinguish between civilian and military
targets when firing mortar shells.In one instance
on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of
villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village,
northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a
young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the
Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was
almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and
fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty
International.The Army also continues to forcibly
conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often
linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin
men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA
attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for
signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a
shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
Meanwhile, some ethnic
armed groups at times abduct civilians seen to support an
opposing party, forcibly recruit men, women and children
into their fighting forces and impose “taxes” on
impoverished villagers trapped in the conflict.“Almost 100,000 people have been torn away from their
homes and farms due to conflict and human rights violations
in northern Myanmar. All sides must protect civilians amid
the conflict and the Myanmar authorities need to immediately
end the humanitarian access restrictions that have further
harmed this already-vulnerable population,” said Matthew
Wells, Senior Crisis Response Advisor at Amnesty
International.“The international community is
familiar with the appalling abuses suffered by the Rohingya
minority in Myanmar’s Rakhine state, but in Kachin and
northern Shan states we found a similarly shocking pattern
in the Army’s targeting of other ethnic minorities.”Amnesty International conducted more than 140 interviews
on the ground between March and May 2017, following renewed
fighting since August 2016 in Kachin and northern Shan
states, which border China. The organization visited towns
and villages in areas affected by fighting as well as 10
camps for internally displaced persons (IDPs), and spoke to
civilian victims and eyewitnesses, community leaders and
humanitarian officials.Displacement crisisMore than 98,000 civilians are currently displaced in
northern Myanmar amid fierce fighting between the Myanmar
Armed Forces and various ethnic armed groups in the area,
including the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), the Ta’ang
National Liberation Army (TNLA), the Arakan Army (AA), and
the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA).Myanmar’s government has exacerbated the difficulties
for many displaced persons by restricting humanitarian
access to certain affected areas, particularly those
controlled by armed groups. Humanitarian officials said this
undermined their ability to respond quickly to emergency
situations and to provide necessary humanitarian assistance
like shelter, access to water, and sanitation.Violations by the Myanmar ArmySince fighting
escalated in November 2016, the Myanmar Army has committed
egregious violations against civilians, sometimes amounting
to war crimes, which continued through Amnesty
International’s final research mission in May 2017.The report documents nine incidents in northern Shan
state where Myanmar Army troops arbitrarily detained and
tortured civilians from ethnic minorities.In the
town of Monekoe in late November 2016, the Army arbitrarily
detained 150 men, women and children who were preparing for
a wedding. After releasing the women and children, as well
as men from certain ethnic groups, the Army used the
remaining men as human shields along the inner perimeter of
a hilltop base; several were killed and others were
seriously wounded by gun and grenade fire.The
report also documents two cases of enforced disappearance of
ethnic minority civilians and four incidents of
extrajudicial executions by the Myanmar Army since mid-2016,
involving at least 25 victims.Eighteen young men
were killed in a single massacre at Nam Hkye Ho village in
late November 2016. Amnesty International interviewed two
eyewitnesses who said that around 100 Myanmar Army soldiers
entered the village after fighting nearby with the MNDAA.
Most of the village, including the women and children, had
fled as fighting approached; after letting the remaining
elderly men go, the soldiers marched the young men off at
gunpoint. A short while later, fleeing villagers heard the
sound of gunfire from the direction in which the soldiers
had left.The surviving villagers fled across the
border to China, and when they returned several weeks later,
found the remains of bodies dumped in two mass graves.“We saw charred remains of what looked like a body.
[There were] bones, but it was mostly ashes. We saw some of
the [belongings]. … We already knew the 18 people were
missing,” an elderly villager told Amnesty
International.The report documents how the Myanmar
Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law
by failing to distinguish between civilian and military
targets when firing mortar shells.In one instance
on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of
villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village,
northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a
young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the
Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was
almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and
fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty
International.The Army also continues to forcibly
conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often
linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin
men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA
attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for
signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a
shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
“Almost 100,000 people have been torn away from their
homes and farms due to conflict and human rights violations
in northern Myanmar. All sides must protect civilians amid
the conflict and the Myanmar authorities need to immediately
end the humanitarian access restrictions that have further
harmed this already-vulnerable population,” said Matthew
Wells, Senior Crisis Response Advisor at Amnesty
International.“The international community is
familiar with the appalling abuses suffered by the Rohingya
minority in Myanmar’s Rakhine state, but in Kachin and
northern Shan states we found a similarly shocking pattern
in the Army’s targeting of other ethnic minorities.”Amnesty International conducted more than 140 interviews
on the ground between March and May 2017, following renewed
fighting since August 2016 in Kachin and northern Shan
states, which border China. The organization visited towns
and villages in areas affected by fighting as well as 10
camps for internally displaced persons (IDPs), and spoke to
civilian victims and eyewitnesses, community leaders and
humanitarian officials.Displacement crisisMore than 98,000 civilians are currently displaced in
northern Myanmar amid fierce fighting between the Myanmar
Armed Forces and various ethnic armed groups in the area,
including the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), the Ta’ang
National Liberation Army (TNLA), the Arakan Army (AA), and
the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA).Myanmar’s government has exacerbated the difficulties
for many displaced persons by restricting humanitarian
access to certain affected areas, particularly those
controlled by armed groups. Humanitarian officials said this
undermined their ability to respond quickly to emergency
situations and to provide necessary humanitarian assistance
like shelter, access to water, and sanitation.Violations by the Myanmar ArmySince fighting
escalated in November 2016, the Myanmar Army has committed
egregious violations against civilians, sometimes amounting
to war crimes, which continued through Amnesty
International’s final research mission in May 2017.The report documents nine incidents in northern Shan
state where Myanmar Army troops arbitrarily detained and
tortured civilians from ethnic minorities.In the
town of Monekoe in late November 2016, the Army arbitrarily
detained 150 men, women and children who were preparing for
a wedding. After releasing the women and children, as well
as men from certain ethnic groups, the Army used the
remaining men as human shields along the inner perimeter of
a hilltop base; several were killed and others were
seriously wounded by gun and grenade fire.The
report also documents two cases of enforced disappearance of
ethnic minority civilians and four incidents of
extrajudicial executions by the Myanmar Army since mid-2016,
involving at least 25 victims.Eighteen young men
were killed in a single massacre at Nam Hkye Ho village in
late November 2016. Amnesty International interviewed two
eyewitnesses who said that around 100 Myanmar Army soldiers
entered the village after fighting nearby with the MNDAA.
Most of the village, including the women and children, had
fled as fighting approached; after letting the remaining
elderly men go, the soldiers marched the young men off at
gunpoint. A short while later, fleeing villagers heard the
sound of gunfire from the direction in which the soldiers
had left.The surviving villagers fled across the
border to China, and when they returned several weeks later,
found the remains of bodies dumped in two mass graves.“We saw charred remains of what looked like a body.
[There were] bones, but it was mostly ashes. We saw some of
the [belongings]. … We already knew the 18 people were
missing,” an elderly villager told Amnesty
International.The report documents how the Myanmar
Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law
by failing to distinguish between civilian and military
targets when firing mortar shells.In one instance
on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of
villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village,
northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a
young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the
Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was
almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and
fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty
International.The Army also continues to forcibly
conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often
linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin
men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA
attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for
signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a
shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
“The international community is
familiar with the appalling abuses suffered by the Rohingya
minority in Myanmar’s Rakhine state, but in Kachin and
northern Shan states we found a similarly shocking pattern
in the Army’s targeting of other ethnic minorities.”Amnesty International conducted more than 140 interviews
on the ground between March and May 2017, following renewed
fighting since August 2016 in Kachin and northern Shan
states, which border China. The organization visited towns
and villages in areas affected by fighting as well as 10
camps for internally displaced persons (IDPs), and spoke to
civilian victims and eyewitnesses, community leaders and
humanitarian officials.Displacement crisisMore than 98,000 civilians are currently displaced in
northern Myanmar amid fierce fighting between the Myanmar
Armed Forces and various ethnic armed groups in the area,
including the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), the Ta’ang
National Liberation Army (TNLA), the Arakan Army (AA), and
the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA).Myanmar’s government has exacerbated the difficulties
for many displaced persons by restricting humanitarian
access to certain affected areas, particularly those
controlled by armed groups. Humanitarian officials said this
undermined their ability to respond quickly to emergency
situations and to provide necessary humanitarian assistance
like shelter, access to water, and sanitation.Violations by the Myanmar ArmySince fighting
escalated in November 2016, the Myanmar Army has committed
egregious violations against civilians, sometimes amounting
to war crimes, which continued through Amnesty
International’s final research mission in May 2017.The report documents nine incidents in northern Shan
state where Myanmar Army troops arbitrarily detained and
tortured civilians from ethnic minorities.In the
town of Monekoe in late November 2016, the Army arbitrarily
detained 150 men, women and children who were preparing for
a wedding. After releasing the women and children, as well
as men from certain ethnic groups, the Army used the
remaining men as human shields along the inner perimeter of
a hilltop base; several were killed and others were
seriously wounded by gun and grenade fire.The
report also documents two cases of enforced disappearance of
ethnic minority civilians and four incidents of
extrajudicial executions by the Myanmar Army since mid-2016,
involving at least 25 victims.Eighteen young men
were killed in a single massacre at Nam Hkye Ho village in
late November 2016. Amnesty International interviewed two
eyewitnesses who said that around 100 Myanmar Army soldiers
entered the village after fighting nearby with the MNDAA.
Most of the village, including the women and children, had
fled as fighting approached; after letting the remaining
elderly men go, the soldiers marched the young men off at
gunpoint. A short while later, fleeing villagers heard the
sound of gunfire from the direction in which the soldiers
had left.The surviving villagers fled across the
border to China, and when they returned several weeks later,
found the remains of bodies dumped in two mass graves.“We saw charred remains of what looked like a body.
[There were] bones, but it was mostly ashes. We saw some of
the [belongings]. … We already knew the 18 people were
missing,” an elderly villager told Amnesty
International.The report documents how the Myanmar
Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law
by failing to distinguish between civilian and military
targets when firing mortar shells.In one instance
on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of
villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village,
northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a
young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the
Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was
almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and
fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty
International.The Army also continues to forcibly
conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often
linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin
men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA
attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for
signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a
shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
Amnesty International conducted more than 140 interviews
on the ground between March and May 2017, following renewed
fighting since August 2016 in Kachin and northern Shan
states, which border China. The organization visited towns
and villages in areas affected by fighting as well as 10
camps for internally displaced persons (IDPs), and spoke to
civilian victims and eyewitnesses, community leaders and
humanitarian officials.Displacement crisisMore than 98,000 civilians are currently displaced in
northern Myanmar amid fierce fighting between the Myanmar
Armed Forces and various ethnic armed groups in the area,
including the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), the Ta’ang
National Liberation Army (TNLA), the Arakan Army (AA), and
the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA).Myanmar’s government has exacerbated the difficulties
for many displaced persons by restricting humanitarian
access to certain affected areas, particularly those
controlled by armed groups. Humanitarian officials said this
undermined their ability to respond quickly to emergency
situations and to provide necessary humanitarian assistance
like shelter, access to water, and sanitation.Violations by the Myanmar ArmySince fighting
escalated in November 2016, the Myanmar Army has committed
egregious violations against civilians, sometimes amounting
to war crimes, which continued through Amnesty
International’s final research mission in May 2017.The report documents nine incidents in northern Shan
state where Myanmar Army troops arbitrarily detained and
tortured civilians from ethnic minorities.In the
town of Monekoe in late November 2016, the Army arbitrarily
detained 150 men, women and children who were preparing for
a wedding. After releasing the women and children, as well
as men from certain ethnic groups, the Army used the
remaining men as human shields along the inner perimeter of
a hilltop base; several were killed and others were
seriously wounded by gun and grenade fire.The
report also documents two cases of enforced disappearance of
ethnic minority civilians and four incidents of
extrajudicial executions by the Myanmar Army since mid-2016,
involving at least 25 victims.Eighteen young men
were killed in a single massacre at Nam Hkye Ho village in
late November 2016. Amnesty International interviewed two
eyewitnesses who said that around 100 Myanmar Army soldiers
entered the village after fighting nearby with the MNDAA.
Most of the village, including the women and children, had
fled as fighting approached; after letting the remaining
elderly men go, the soldiers marched the young men off at
gunpoint. A short while later, fleeing villagers heard the
sound of gunfire from the direction in which the soldiers
had left.The surviving villagers fled across the
border to China, and when they returned several weeks later,
found the remains of bodies dumped in two mass graves.“We saw charred remains of what looked like a body.
[There were] bones, but it was mostly ashes. We saw some of
the [belongings]. … We already knew the 18 people were
missing,” an elderly villager told Amnesty
International.The report documents how the Myanmar
Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law
by failing to distinguish between civilian and military
targets when firing mortar shells.In one instance
on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of
villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village,
northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a
young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the
Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was
almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and
fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty
International.The Army also continues to forcibly
conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often
linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin
men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA
attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for
signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a
shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
Displacement crisisMore than 98,000 civilians are currently displaced in
northern Myanmar amid fierce fighting between the Myanmar
Armed Forces and various ethnic armed groups in the area,
including the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), the Ta’ang
National Liberation Army (TNLA), the Arakan Army (AA), and
the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA).Myanmar’s government has exacerbated the difficulties
for many displaced persons by restricting humanitarian
access to certain affected areas, particularly those
controlled by armed groups. Humanitarian officials said this
undermined their ability to respond quickly to emergency
situations and to provide necessary humanitarian assistance
like shelter, access to water, and sanitation.Violations by the Myanmar ArmySince fighting
escalated in November 2016, the Myanmar Army has committed
egregious violations against civilians, sometimes amounting
to war crimes, which continued through Amnesty
International’s final research mission in May 2017.The report documents nine incidents in northern Shan
state where Myanmar Army troops arbitrarily detained and
tortured civilians from ethnic minorities.In the
town of Monekoe in late November 2016, the Army arbitrarily
detained 150 men, women and children who were preparing for
a wedding. After releasing the women and children, as well
as men from certain ethnic groups, the Army used the
remaining men as human shields along the inner perimeter of
a hilltop base; several were killed and others were
seriously wounded by gun and grenade fire.The
report also documents two cases of enforced disappearance of
ethnic minority civilians and four incidents of
extrajudicial executions by the Myanmar Army since mid-2016,
involving at least 25 victims.Eighteen young men
were killed in a single massacre at Nam Hkye Ho village in
late November 2016. Amnesty International interviewed two
eyewitnesses who said that around 100 Myanmar Army soldiers
entered the village after fighting nearby with the MNDAA.
Most of the village, including the women and children, had
fled as fighting approached; after letting the remaining
elderly men go, the soldiers marched the young men off at
gunpoint. A short while later, fleeing villagers heard the
sound of gunfire from the direction in which the soldiers
had left.The surviving villagers fled across the
border to China, and when they returned several weeks later,
found the remains of bodies dumped in two mass graves.“We saw charred remains of what looked like a body.
[There were] bones, but it was mostly ashes. We saw some of
the [belongings]. … We already knew the 18 people were
missing,” an elderly villager told Amnesty
International.The report documents how the Myanmar
Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law
by failing to distinguish between civilian and military
targets when firing mortar shells.In one instance
on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of
villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village,
northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a
young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the
Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was
almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and
fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty
International.The Army also continues to forcibly
conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often
linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin
men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA
attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for
signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a
shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
More than 98,000 civilians are currently displaced in
northern Myanmar amid fierce fighting between the Myanmar
Armed Forces and various ethnic armed groups in the area,
including the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), the Ta’ang
National Liberation Army (TNLA), the Arakan Army (AA), and
the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA).Myanmar’s government has exacerbated the difficulties
for many displaced persons by restricting humanitarian
access to certain affected areas, particularly those
controlled by armed groups. Humanitarian officials said this
undermined their ability to respond quickly to emergency
situations and to provide necessary humanitarian assistance
like shelter, access to water, and sanitation.Violations by the Myanmar ArmySince fighting
escalated in November 2016, the Myanmar Army has committed
egregious violations against civilians, sometimes amounting
to war crimes, which continued through Amnesty
International’s final research mission in May 2017.The report documents nine incidents in northern Shan
state where Myanmar Army troops arbitrarily detained and
tortured civilians from ethnic minorities.In the
town of Monekoe in late November 2016, the Army arbitrarily
detained 150 men, women and children who were preparing for
a wedding. After releasing the women and children, as well
as men from certain ethnic groups, the Army used the
remaining men as human shields along the inner perimeter of
a hilltop base; several were killed and others were
seriously wounded by gun and grenade fire.The
report also documents two cases of enforced disappearance of
ethnic minority civilians and four incidents of
extrajudicial executions by the Myanmar Army since mid-2016,
involving at least 25 victims.Eighteen young men
were killed in a single massacre at Nam Hkye Ho village in
late November 2016. Amnesty International interviewed two
eyewitnesses who said that around 100 Myanmar Army soldiers
entered the village after fighting nearby with the MNDAA.
Most of the village, including the women and children, had
fled as fighting approached; after letting the remaining
elderly men go, the soldiers marched the young men off at
gunpoint. A short while later, fleeing villagers heard the
sound of gunfire from the direction in which the soldiers
had left.The surviving villagers fled across the
border to China, and when they returned several weeks later,
found the remains of bodies dumped in two mass graves.“We saw charred remains of what looked like a body.
[There were] bones, but it was mostly ashes. We saw some of
the [belongings]. … We already knew the 18 people were
missing,” an elderly villager told Amnesty
International.The report documents how the Myanmar
Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law
by failing to distinguish between civilian and military
targets when firing mortar shells.In one instance
on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of
villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village,
northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a
young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the
Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was
almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and
fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty
International.The Army also continues to forcibly
conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often
linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin
men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA
attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for
signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a
shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
Myanmar’s government has exacerbated the difficulties
for many displaced persons by restricting humanitarian
access to certain affected areas, particularly those
controlled by armed groups. Humanitarian officials said this
undermined their ability to respond quickly to emergency
situations and to provide necessary humanitarian assistance
like shelter, access to water, and sanitation.Violations by the Myanmar ArmySince fighting
escalated in November 2016, the Myanmar Army has committed
egregious violations against civilians, sometimes amounting
to war crimes, which continued through Amnesty
International’s final research mission in May 2017.The report documents nine incidents in northern Shan
state where Myanmar Army troops arbitrarily detained and
tortured civilians from ethnic minorities.In the
town of Monekoe in late November 2016, the Army arbitrarily
detained 150 men, women and children who were preparing for
a wedding. After releasing the women and children, as well
as men from certain ethnic groups, the Army used the
remaining men as human shields along the inner perimeter of
a hilltop base; several were killed and others were
seriously wounded by gun and grenade fire.The
report also documents two cases of enforced disappearance of
ethnic minority civilians and four incidents of
extrajudicial executions by the Myanmar Army since mid-2016,
involving at least 25 victims.Eighteen young men
were killed in a single massacre at Nam Hkye Ho village in
late November 2016. Amnesty International interviewed two
eyewitnesses who said that around 100 Myanmar Army soldiers
entered the village after fighting nearby with the MNDAA.
Most of the village, including the women and children, had
fled as fighting approached; after letting the remaining
elderly men go, the soldiers marched the young men off at
gunpoint. A short while later, fleeing villagers heard the
sound of gunfire from the direction in which the soldiers
had left.The surviving villagers fled across the
border to China, and when they returned several weeks later,
found the remains of bodies dumped in two mass graves.“We saw charred remains of what looked like a body.
[There were] bones, but it was mostly ashes. We saw some of
the [belongings]. … We already knew the 18 people were
missing,” an elderly villager told Amnesty
International.The report documents how the Myanmar
Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law
by failing to distinguish between civilian and military
targets when firing mortar shells.In one instance
on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of
villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village,
northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a
young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the
Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was
almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and
fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty
International.The Army also continues to forcibly
conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often
linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin
men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA
attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for
signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a
shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
Violations by the Myanmar ArmySince fighting
escalated in November 2016, the Myanmar Army has committed
egregious violations against civilians, sometimes amounting
to war crimes, which continued through Amnesty
International’s final research mission in May 2017.The report documents nine incidents in northern Shan
state where Myanmar Army troops arbitrarily detained and
tortured civilians from ethnic minorities.In the
town of Monekoe in late November 2016, the Army arbitrarily
detained 150 men, women and children who were preparing for
a wedding. After releasing the women and children, as well
as men from certain ethnic groups, the Army used the
remaining men as human shields along the inner perimeter of
a hilltop base; several were killed and others were
seriously wounded by gun and grenade fire.The
report also documents two cases of enforced disappearance of
ethnic minority civilians and four incidents of
extrajudicial executions by the Myanmar Army since mid-2016,
involving at least 25 victims.Eighteen young men
were killed in a single massacre at Nam Hkye Ho village in
late November 2016. Amnesty International interviewed two
eyewitnesses who said that around 100 Myanmar Army soldiers
entered the village after fighting nearby with the MNDAA.
Most of the village, including the women and children, had
fled as fighting approached; after letting the remaining
elderly men go, the soldiers marched the young men off at
gunpoint. A short while later, fleeing villagers heard the
sound of gunfire from the direction in which the soldiers
had left.The surviving villagers fled across the
border to China, and when they returned several weeks later,
found the remains of bodies dumped in two mass graves.“We saw charred remains of what looked like a body.
[There were] bones, but it was mostly ashes. We saw some of
the [belongings]. … We already knew the 18 people were
missing,” an elderly villager told Amnesty
International.The report documents how the Myanmar
Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law
by failing to distinguish between civilian and military
targets when firing mortar shells.In one instance
on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of
villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village,
northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a
young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the
Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was
almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and
fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty
International.The Army also continues to forcibly
conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often
linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin
men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA
attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for
signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a
shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
Since fighting
escalated in November 2016, the Myanmar Army has committed
egregious violations against civilians, sometimes amounting
to war crimes, which continued through Amnesty
International’s final research mission in May 2017.The report documents nine incidents in northern Shan
state where Myanmar Army troops arbitrarily detained and
tortured civilians from ethnic minorities.In the
town of Monekoe in late November 2016, the Army arbitrarily
detained 150 men, women and children who were preparing for
a wedding. After releasing the women and children, as well
as men from certain ethnic groups, the Army used the
remaining men as human shields along the inner perimeter of
a hilltop base; several were killed and others were
seriously wounded by gun and grenade fire.The
report also documents two cases of enforced disappearance of
ethnic minority civilians and four incidents of
extrajudicial executions by the Myanmar Army since mid-2016,
involving at least 25 victims.Eighteen young men
were killed in a single massacre at Nam Hkye Ho village in
late November 2016. Amnesty International interviewed two
eyewitnesses who said that around 100 Myanmar Army soldiers
entered the village after fighting nearby with the MNDAA.
Most of the village, including the women and children, had
fled as fighting approached; after letting the remaining
elderly men go, the soldiers marched the young men off at
gunpoint. A short while later, fleeing villagers heard the
sound of gunfire from the direction in which the soldiers
had left.The surviving villagers fled across the
border to China, and when they returned several weeks later,
found the remains of bodies dumped in two mass graves.“We saw charred remains of what looked like a body.
[There were] bones, but it was mostly ashes. We saw some of
the [belongings]. … We already knew the 18 people were
missing,” an elderly villager told Amnesty
International.The report documents how the Myanmar
Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law
by failing to distinguish between civilian and military
targets when firing mortar shells.In one instance
on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of
villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village,
northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a
young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the
Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was
almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and
fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty
International.The Army also continues to forcibly
conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often
linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin
men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA
attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for
signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a
shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
The report documents nine incidents in northern Shan
state where Myanmar Army troops arbitrarily detained and
tortured civilians from ethnic minorities.In the
town of Monekoe in late November 2016, the Army arbitrarily
detained 150 men, women and children who were preparing for
a wedding. After releasing the women and children, as well
as men from certain ethnic groups, the Army used the
remaining men as human shields along the inner perimeter of
a hilltop base; several were killed and others were
seriously wounded by gun and grenade fire.The
report also documents two cases of enforced disappearance of
ethnic minority civilians and four incidents of
extrajudicial executions by the Myanmar Army since mid-2016,
involving at least 25 victims.Eighteen young men
were killed in a single massacre at Nam Hkye Ho village in
late November 2016. Amnesty International interviewed two
eyewitnesses who said that around 100 Myanmar Army soldiers
entered the village after fighting nearby with the MNDAA.
Most of the village, including the women and children, had
fled as fighting approached; after letting the remaining
elderly men go, the soldiers marched the young men off at
gunpoint. A short while later, fleeing villagers heard the
sound of gunfire from the direction in which the soldiers
had left.The surviving villagers fled across the
border to China, and when they returned several weeks later,
found the remains of bodies dumped in two mass graves.“We saw charred remains of what looked like a body.
[There were] bones, but it was mostly ashes. We saw some of
the [belongings]. … We already knew the 18 people were
missing,” an elderly villager told Amnesty
International.The report documents how the Myanmar
Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law
by failing to distinguish between civilian and military
targets when firing mortar shells.In one instance
on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of
villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village,
northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a
young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the
Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was
almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and
fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty
International.The Army also continues to forcibly
conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often
linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin
men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA
attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for
signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a
shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
In the
town of Monekoe in late November 2016, the Army arbitrarily
detained 150 men, women and children who were preparing for
a wedding. After releasing the women and children, as well
as men from certain ethnic groups, the Army used the
remaining men as human shields along the inner perimeter of
a hilltop base; several were killed and others were
seriously wounded by gun and grenade fire.The
report also documents two cases of enforced disappearance of
ethnic minority civilians and four incidents of
extrajudicial executions by the Myanmar Army since mid-2016,
involving at least 25 victims.Eighteen young men
were killed in a single massacre at Nam Hkye Ho village in
late November 2016. Amnesty International interviewed two
eyewitnesses who said that around 100 Myanmar Army soldiers
entered the village after fighting nearby with the MNDAA.
Most of the village, including the women and children, had
fled as fighting approached; after letting the remaining
elderly men go, the soldiers marched the young men off at
gunpoint. A short while later, fleeing villagers heard the
sound of gunfire from the direction in which the soldiers
had left.The surviving villagers fled across the
border to China, and when they returned several weeks later,
found the remains of bodies dumped in two mass graves.“We saw charred remains of what looked like a body.
[There were] bones, but it was mostly ashes. We saw some of
the [belongings]. … We already knew the 18 people were
missing,” an elderly villager told Amnesty
International.The report documents how the Myanmar
Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law
by failing to distinguish between civilian and military
targets when firing mortar shells.In one instance
on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of
villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village,
northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a
young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the
Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was
almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and
fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty
International.The Army also continues to forcibly
conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often
linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin
men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA
attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for
signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a
shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
The
report also documents two cases of enforced disappearance of
ethnic minority civilians and four incidents of
extrajudicial executions by the Myanmar Army since mid-2016,
involving at least 25 victims.Eighteen young men
were killed in a single massacre at Nam Hkye Ho village in
late November 2016. Amnesty International interviewed two
eyewitnesses who said that around 100 Myanmar Army soldiers
entered the village after fighting nearby with the MNDAA.
Most of the village, including the women and children, had
fled as fighting approached; after letting the remaining
elderly men go, the soldiers marched the young men off at
gunpoint. A short while later, fleeing villagers heard the
sound of gunfire from the direction in which the soldiers
had left.The surviving villagers fled across the
border to China, and when they returned several weeks later,
found the remains of bodies dumped in two mass graves.“We saw charred remains of what looked like a body.
[There were] bones, but it was mostly ashes. We saw some of
the [belongings]. … We already knew the 18 people were
missing,” an elderly villager told Amnesty
International.The report documents how the Myanmar
Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law
by failing to distinguish between civilian and military
targets when firing mortar shells.In one instance
on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of
villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village,
northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a
young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the
Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was
almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and
fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty
International.The Army also continues to forcibly
conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often
linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin
men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA
attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for
signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a
shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
Eighteen young men
were killed in a single massacre at Nam Hkye Ho village in
late November 2016. Amnesty International interviewed two
eyewitnesses who said that around 100 Myanmar Army soldiers
entered the village after fighting nearby with the MNDAA.
Most of the village, including the women and children, had
fled as fighting approached; after letting the remaining
elderly men go, the soldiers marched the young men off at
gunpoint. A short while later, fleeing villagers heard the
sound of gunfire from the direction in which the soldiers
had left.The surviving villagers fled across the
border to China, and when they returned several weeks later,
found the remains of bodies dumped in two mass graves.“We saw charred remains of what looked like a body.
[There were] bones, but it was mostly ashes. We saw some of
the [belongings]. … We already knew the 18 people were
missing,” an elderly villager told Amnesty
International.The report documents how the Myanmar
Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law
by failing to distinguish between civilian and military
targets when firing mortar shells.In one instance
on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of
villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village,
northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a
young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the
Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was
almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and
fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty
International.The Army also continues to forcibly
conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often
linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin
men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA
attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for
signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a
shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
The surviving villagers fled across the
border to China, and when they returned several weeks later,
found the remains of bodies dumped in two mass graves.“We saw charred remains of what looked like a body.
[There were] bones, but it was mostly ashes. We saw some of
the [belongings]. … We already knew the 18 people were
missing,” an elderly villager told Amnesty
International.The report documents how the Myanmar
Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law
by failing to distinguish between civilian and military
targets when firing mortar shells.In one instance
on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of
villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village,
northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a
young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the
Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was
almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and
fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty
International.The Army also continues to forcibly
conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often
linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin
men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA
attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for
signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a
shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
“We saw charred remains of what looked like a body.
[There were] bones, but it was mostly ashes. We saw some of
the [belongings]. … We already knew the 18 people were
missing,” an elderly villager told Amnesty
International.The report documents how the Myanmar
Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law
by failing to distinguish between civilian and military
targets when firing mortar shells.In one instance
on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of
villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village,
northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a
young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the
Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was
almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and
fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty
International.The Army also continues to forcibly
conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often
linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin
men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA
attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for
signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a
shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
The report documents how the Myanmar
Army has repeatedly violated international humanitarian law
by failing to distinguish between civilian and military
targets when firing mortar shells.In one instance
on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of
villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village,
northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a
young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the
Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was
almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and
fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty
International.The Army also continues to forcibly
conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often
linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin
men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA
attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for
signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a
shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
In one instance
on 12 January 2017, mortar shells were fired as dozens of
villagers gathered for a festival in Hol Chaung village,
northern Shan state, killing two civilians, including a
young boy, and injuring at least eight more. Though the
Myanmar Army denied responsibility for the shelling, it was
almost certainly to blame, based on eyewitness accounts and
fragments of the mortars observed by Amnesty
International.The Army also continues to forcibly
conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often
linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin
men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA
attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for
signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a
shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
The Army also continues to forcibly
conscript villagers as porters and guides, a practice often
linked to other abuses, including torture. As four Kachin
men forcibly guided Army soldiers in November 2016, the TNLA
attacked the unit. The soldiers blamed the four men for
signalling their position, beating them brutally and using a
shaving blade to slice the faces of three of them.Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
Civilians repeatedly implicated the Army’s 33rd and
99th Light Infantry Divisions in many of the violations, but
soldiers and commanders responsible almost never face
investigation, much less prosecution, even for war
crimes.“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
“For decades, the Myanmar Army has acted
with near total impunity. This must change urgently, with
those responsible for atrocities brought to book. The
Myanmar government must also ensure unfettered access to the
UN-established independent, international fact-finding
mission,” said Matthew Wells.Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
Abuses by armed
groupsWhile many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
While many ethnic minority civilians see
armed groups as their protectors, they also suffer abuses
from these groups.Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
Various armed groups use forced
conscription, including of children, and impose “taxes”
on villagers and market sellers, extorting cash and goods
from communities that are already vulnerable due to the
conflict.Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
Amnesty International documented a total
of 45 abductions of civilians committed by two ethnic armed
groups in the course of fighting in northern Shan state.
People were typically taken in groups. Months later, their
families still have no information about their whereabouts,
raising fears about summary killings.Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
Landmines and
IEDsBoth the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
Both the Myanmar Army and ethnic armed groups
use landmine-like weapons, planting antipersonnel landmines
or improvised explosive devices (IEDs) that often harm
civilians, including children, going to work on the
family’s farm or returning home after being displaced. The
Myanmar Army is one of only a handful of state forces
worldwide, along with North Korea and Syria, to still use
antipersonnel landmines. Amnesty International is calling on
all sides to halt their use, facilitate clearance and for
Myanmar to accede to the global Mine Ban Treaty.All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
All
sides to the conflict must end the pattern of violations and
abuses against civilians, and the Myanmar authorities must
end the cycle of impunity by investigating and prosecuting
violations by all sides to the conflicts.The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
The UN
Human Rights Council must ensure that its recently announced
independent, international fact-finding mission is fully
resourced to investigate ongoing conflict abuses in Kachin
and northern Shan states. UN agencies on the ground and
international donor countries must call for an end to
restrictions on humanitarian access and increase their
assistance to those affected by the conflict.“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
“Aung San Suu Kyi has prioritized the ongoing national
peace process – but for it to succeed, it will have to be
rooted in accountability and respect for the rights of all
civilians, including ethnic minorities,” said Matthew
Wells.ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
ENDS© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
© Scoop MediaAdvertisement - scroll to continue readingAre you licensed for Scoop?Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out moreFind more fromAmnesty Internationalon InfoPages.
Scoop is free for personal use, but you’ll need a licence for work use. This is part of our Ethical Paywall and how we fund Scoop without a regular paywall. Join today with plans starting from just $11 per month, and start using Scoop like a Pro.Join Pro IndividualFind out more

Nations can't grow if their people can't. The Pacific's future depends on reliable access to clean water and decent food so that every child, no matter how remote their home can realise their full potential.
At this extremely volatile time, I appeal to all States with influence in the region and beyond to take immediate measures to avert further widening of the current conflicts – enough of the daily horrors, enough of the suffering.
'Thailand has become less important in the eyes of the U.S. side, compared to Singapore, Vietnam, the Philippines, and even Indonesia. The new Thai government has to review and reposition itself first.'
RSF exposes the inner workings of a disinformation campaign designed to justify President Vladimir Putin's war narrative.
The international humanitarian medical organisation had been present in Russia since 1992. MSF would like to still work in Russia again if and when possible.
A relentless siege, deadly targeted attacks and chronic restrictions on lifesaving aid deliveries into the war-torn Gaza Strip by Israeli forces: that’s just some of what aid workers are grappling with as they try to provide the level of lifesaving assistance needed to stave off widespread famine and epidemics in the strip.
Oilprice.comDemocracy NowRaw StoryGoogle NewsSlashdotGuardian NewspaperThe IndependentWashington PostNew York TimesBBC NewsAl JazeeraThe Huffington PostCouncil on Hemispheric AffairsGreen Peace




Title: No title found
