Title: Myanmar's irrational denial of citizenship to Rohingyas | The Daily Star
Workers’ minimum wage to be reviewed
Killer of Pathao founder gets  40 years in jail
B’baria Border: Former MP Fazle Karim arrested
Rab arrests ex-DMP  chief Asaduzzaman
The exodus of Rohingyas, one of the most persecuted minorities in the world, from Myanmar to neighbouring countries is not a new phenomenon. Historically, Rohingyas have been fleeing to Bangladesh, Malaysia, Thailand, and other neighbouring counties to escape serious repressions in Myanmar. One of the key issues of contention regarding the Rohingya crisis is the question over their citizenship. Denial of citizenship poses serious obstacles in achieving a durable solution to the Rohingya refugee flows.
There are two schools of thought that analyse the controversy related to the existence of Rohingyas in Myanmar. One of these perspectives comes from the proponents of the government of Myanmar and its Buddhist-led population. They consider Rohingyas as "outsiders" and "foreign residents of Myanmar". According to this perspective, Rohingyas are the direct descendants of immigrants from Chittagong of East Bengal, present-day south-eastern region of Bangladesh. Rohingyas are, thereby, referred to as "Bengali" in Myanmar's state media, official policy documents, and school textbooks as well. They are also portrayed as a threat to Myanmar's national security.
The "1982 Citizenship Law" enacted by Myanmar's military government refer to "Nationals such as the Kachin, Kayah, Karen, Chin, Burman, Mon, Rakhine or Shan and ethnic groups as have settled in any of the territories included within the State as their permanent home from a period  prior to 1185 B.E., 1823 A.D. are Burma citizens". It clearly denotes that Myanmar's citizens are those persons whose ancestors settled in the country before 1823, the beginning of British occupation of Arakan, present-day northern Rakhine State. Myanmar authorities claim that Rohingyas settled in Arakan after its annexation by the British in 1824.
On the other hand, the stance of Myanmar's Buddhist majority and its authority is strongly contested by the government of Bangladesh, the Rohingya themselves, foreign governments, international organisations and scholars. Bangladesh claims that Rohingyas are Myanmar nationals and they have reportedly entered the territory of Bangladesh through illegal means. Rohingyas are the Muslims of Myanmar who have lived in Arakan for a long period of time.
As far as the debate is concerned, there is a question that needs to be answered: whether Rohingyas are illegal immigrants from Bangladesh or not. How plausible are the arguments proposed by the government of Myanmar? In this regard, it is important to re-examine the history of Rohingyas' settlement in Arakan.
If we look at the first claim projected by Myanmar's military junta about the "illegal immigrants from Bangladesh", the evidences accumulated from historical facts and scholarly documents do not comply with this proposition. The clarification of this non-compliance can be reiterated from in-depth observation.
Historical evidence show that Rohingyas are Muslims whose settlements in Arakan date back to the 7th century C.E., long before the British colonial rule in the Indian subcontinent. Some scholarly documents mention that Rohingyas have been living in the Rakhine State since the 8th century. The Human Rights Watch traces the well-established presence of Rohingyas in the Mrauk-U (Mrohaung) kingdom in Arakan, now Rakhine State. It has also been mentioned that Rohingya Muslims had ruled over Arakan for more than 250 years until Burmese invasion and occupation of Arakan in 1784 C.E. Such evidence can also be found from the records of Francis Buchanan. He wrote, "I shall now add three dialects, spoken in the Burma Empire, but evidently derived from the language of the Hindu nation. The first is that spoken by the Mohammedans, who have long settled in Arakan, and who call themselves 'Rooinga', or natives of Arakan."
At that time it was not only the Bengalis who entered into Arakan for better livelihood opportunities;  the Arakanese arrived in Chattogram, the then Chittagong, as well. When the Burmese invaded and conquered Arakan in 1784, Rohingyas were conquered and incorporated into the majority Buddhist kingdom of Burma. As a result, considerable numbers of Rohingyas sought refuge in Chattogram and Cox's Bazar. Some Rohingyas assimilated into the Bengali community because of their cultural and linguistic similarities with the people living in Chattogram.
It is also important to note that during the British rule of the Indian subcontinent and Burma, movement of people was considered as "internal movement", from one district to another within the same political entity. Chattogram came under the British rule in 1760, while after the end of three Anglo-Burmese Wars (1824-1826, 1852-1853, and 1885), Burma became a part of British India (1886-1937). The borders of the British Indian Empire were extremely porous prior to the colonial period and during its initial phases. Consequently, people could easily move across the region without permission or legal documents. In addition, it was British policy to move populations between the then East Bengal and Burma to suit their labour needs that triggered intra-regional labour flows. As a result, a considerable level of movement occurred across the region during that period, mostly for economic purpose which was considered as normal seasonal migration.
It is, therefore, meaningless to term people's movement as well as their settlements at that time between the two parts—Arakan of Burma and the then Chittagong Division of Bengal in British India—as illegal. The question of illegal immigration only comes after the demarcation of borders among independent states.
Given this above-mentioned analyses, it is no longer rational or reasonable to claim Rohingyas as "Bengalis" or "illegal immigrants from Bangladesh". Rather they have historically been living in Arakan. Unless their status of ethnicity is recognised or resolved, the long-term solution of the Rohingya crisis will remain questionable.
Sultana Yesmin is a PhD Candidate at the School of Politics and International Studies (SPIS), Central China Normal University, Wuhan, Hubei, China.Email:[email protected]
উপদেষ্টা পরিষদের বৈঠকের পর পরিবেশ উপদেষ্টা সৈয়দা রিজওয়ানা হাসান এ কথা জানান।

Title: Highlighting the plight of the Rohingya refugees | The Daily Star
Workers’ minimum wage to be reviewed
Killer of Pathao founder gets  40 years in jail
B’baria Border: Former MP Fazle Karim arrested
Rab arrests ex-DMP  chief Asaduzzaman
The historical documentary film titled,Blossoms From Ash, featuring the persecuted Rohingya people, has been completed with the active contribution of a unique team. Blum Family Foundation (USA) has produced the film created by Circle Media International (Bangladesh). The poster and trailer of the documentary are available in the official website (www.blossomsfromashmovie.com).
This documentary incorporates the summary of a 1200-year old story with visual evidence of the involvement of Islam and the Roginya community in Arakan state of Myanmar. It is noted that, the current Myanmar Government head Aung San Suu Kyi has denied any involvement of Rohingya people in Arakan state history in different aspects, rather stating them as Bangladeshi citizens.
Blossoms From Ashhas proven the statement wrong with historical documents and evidence. For now, this film is narrated in English. It will gradually be rendered into Bangla, Hindi, French, German and Spanish.
The shooting team was present at Rohingya camps in Bangladesh from August 17 to 27 this year. The film portrays the Rohingya refugee life on the eve of Eid-Ul-Azha, one of the holy occasions for the Muslims over there. The crew has also documented the unremitting miserable situation and persecution the Rohingyas have been facing in Arakan for the last 250 years.
“Three different Rohingya refugee children and their family stories in Ukhiya camp have been shot in the film. The children are living in the tortuous environment of the refugee camp,” says Noman Robin, the director of the film. “But they have a keen interest in their studies and sports. The hopes, desires, goals, happiness and pain of these children from Arakan are the main focus of this film.”
The American producer Alex Blum also discussed the project. “Blum Family Foundation wants to show the film in different film festivals worldwide,” he explains.  “The main motive of the foundation is to stir up the sensible audience around the world about the injustice happening in Arakan against the Rohingya through this film.”
Sarun Manandhar (Nepal) is the DOP of the documentary while Shafayet Faraizi (USA) has narrated the documentary.
উপদেষ্টা পরিষদের বৈঠকের পর পরিবেশ উপদেষ্টা সৈয়দা রিজওয়ানা হাসান এ কথা জানান।

Title: Myanmar Army Announces Unilateral Ceasefire Against Ethnic Rebels - 21.12.2018, Sputnik International
In the first major breakthrough since 2011, the Myanmar Army had declared a unilateral ceasefire against various rebel groups fighting in different parts of the nation. The proclaimed ceasefire includes de-escalation of troop mobilisation. The move towards a unilateral ceasefire was decided upon to facilitate un-hindered negotiations with the ethnic rebel groups.
READ MORE: Myanmar Govt Launches Investigation into Human Rights Abuses in Rakhine
The Myanmar Army has formed a negotiations team led by Lt. General Yar Pyae and includes senior and regional commanders. The team will discuss issues with rebel groups, especially the prominent ones like the Arakan Army in northern Rakhine state.
Myanmar Army announces unilateral ceasefire. Major announcement to bring peace in the countrypic.twitter.com/GtFlLgn1jo
​
READ MORE: Bangladeshi Failure to Inform Rohingya of Repatriation Hampers Return — Envoy
Myanmar Army did not impose a sixth principle "to march towards a democratic country in accord with the 2008 Constitution".
In last few days over 700 people have been displaced by clashes between the Myanmar Army and the Arakan Army (AA) in northern Rakhine State.
A study conducted by the Myanmar Institute for Peace and Security (MIPS) says that there were 44 clashes in November — 21 between ethnic armed groups and the army, and 23 between ethnic armed groups themselves.

Title: Myanmar policeman found killed in northern Rakhine state | Rohingya News | Al Jazeera
Body found two days ago with ‘gunshot wounds in his face, arm and leg’, according to government-backed media.
The bullet-riddled body of aMyanmarpoliceman has been found in northern Rakhine state, according to government media, as tensions rise in the hotspot where theRohingyacrisis erupted last year.
His body was found two days ago with “gunshot wounds in his face, arm and leg”, government-backed Global New Light of Myanmar reported on Sunday.




The western territory is a tinderbox of ethnic and religious divisions and security forces have clashed with both Rohingya armed groups and much better-armed Rakhine fighters from the mostly Buddhist Arakan Army.
Private Aung Kyaw Thet went missing in action after an ambush last week by unknown assailants in Maungdaw township near the border with Bangladesh.
The ambush happened the same day that two ethnic Rakhine Buddhist men disappeared while fishing in the same township and were later found with their throats slit, prompting the army to launch local “clearance operations” and raising fears of renewed large-scale violence.
Sunday’s report in Global New Light did not identify the alleged perpetrators of the shooting but said authorities found foxholes near the scene, bullet casings and biscuits manufactured in Bangladesh.
More than 720,000 Rohingya fled northern Rakhine to Bangladesh after Myanmar launched a crackdown on the mostly Muslim minority in August 2017.
UN investigators want senior Myanmar generals to beprosecuted for genocidebut the army says it was responding to attacks on border guard posts by Rohingya fighters that killed around a dozen security forces.
The army this week called a rare ceasefire against ethnic armed groups in the northeast of the country, but Rakhine state was not included.
Analysts say the military left Rakhine out because it does not want the Arakan Army to gain a foothold in the state, and has lingering concerns over the less powerful Rohingya armed groups, who call themselves the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army.













Follow Al Jazeera English:

Title: Myanmar cop found killed in Rakhine state
YANGON: The bullet-riddled body of a Myanmar policeman was found in northern Rakhine state, government media said Sunday, as tensions rise in the hotspot where the Rohingya crisis erupted last year.The western territory is a tinderbox of ethnic and religious divisions and security forces have clashed with both Rohingya insurgents and much better armed Rakhine fighters from the mostly Buddhist Arakan Army. Private Aung Kyaw Thet went missing in action after an ambush last week by unknown assailants in Maungdaw township near the border with Bangladesh.His body was found two days ago with “gunshot wounds in his face, arm and leg near a hill inside the other country,” according to government-backed Global New Light of Myanmar. The ambush happened the same day that two ethnic Rakhine Buddhist men disappeared while fishing in the same township and were later found with their throats slit, prompting the army to launch local “clearance operations” and raising fears of renewed large-scale violence.Sunday’s report in Global New Light did not identify the alleged perpetrators of the shooting but said authorities found foxholes near the scene, bullet casings and biscuits manufactured in Bangladesh.More than 720,000 Rohingya fled northern Rakhine to Bangladesh after Myanmar launched a crackdown on the Muslim minority in August 2017.UN investigators want senior Myanmar generals to be prosecuted for genocide but the army says it was responding to attacks on border guard posts by Rohingya insurgents that killed around a dozen security forces.The army this week called a rare ceasefire against ethnic armed groups in the northeast of the country but Rakhine state was not included. Analysts say the military left Rakhine out because it does not want the Arakan Army to gain a foothold in the state as well as lingering concern over the less powerful Rohingya militants, who call themselves the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army.
The western territory is a tinderbox of ethnic and religious divisions and security forces have clashed with both Rohingya insurgents and much better armed Rakhine fighters from the mostly Buddhist Arakan Army. Private Aung Kyaw Thet went missing in action after an ambush last week by unknown assailants in Maungdaw township near the border with Bangladesh.His body was found two days ago with “gunshot wounds in his face, arm and leg near a hill inside the other country,” according to government-backed Global New Light of Myanmar. The ambush happened the same day that two ethnic Rakhine Buddhist men disappeared while fishing in the same township and were later found with their throats slit, prompting the army to launch local “clearance operations” and raising fears of renewed large-scale violence.Sunday’s report in Global New Light did not identify the alleged perpetrators of the shooting but said authorities found foxholes near the scene, bullet casings and biscuits manufactured in Bangladesh.More than 720,000 Rohingya fled northern Rakhine to Bangladesh after Myanmar launched a crackdown on the Muslim minority in August 2017.UN investigators want senior Myanmar generals to be prosecuted for genocide but the army says it was responding to attacks on border guard posts by Rohingya insurgents that killed around a dozen security forces.The army this week called a rare ceasefire against ethnic armed groups in the northeast of the country but Rakhine state was not included. Analysts say the military left Rakhine out because it does not want the Arakan Army to gain a foothold in the state as well as lingering concern over the less powerful Rohingya militants, who call themselves the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army.
His body was found two days ago with “gunshot wounds in his face, arm and leg near a hill inside the other country,” according to government-backed Global New Light of Myanmar. The ambush happened the same day that two ethnic Rakhine Buddhist men disappeared while fishing in the same township and were later found with their throats slit, prompting the army to launch local “clearance operations” and raising fears of renewed large-scale violence.Sunday’s report in Global New Light did not identify the alleged perpetrators of the shooting but said authorities found foxholes near the scene, bullet casings and biscuits manufactured in Bangladesh.More than 720,000 Rohingya fled northern Rakhine to Bangladesh after Myanmar launched a crackdown on the Muslim minority in August 2017.UN investigators want senior Myanmar generals to be prosecuted for genocide but the army says it was responding to attacks on border guard posts by Rohingya insurgents that killed around a dozen security forces.The army this week called a rare ceasefire against ethnic armed groups in the northeast of the country but Rakhine state was not included. Analysts say the military left Rakhine out because it does not want the Arakan Army to gain a foothold in the state as well as lingering concern over the less powerful Rohingya militants, who call themselves the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army.
Sunday’s report in Global New Light did not identify the alleged perpetrators of the shooting but said authorities found foxholes near the scene, bullet casings and biscuits manufactured in Bangladesh.More than 720,000 Rohingya fled northern Rakhine to Bangladesh after Myanmar launched a crackdown on the Muslim minority in August 2017.UN investigators want senior Myanmar generals to be prosecuted for genocide but the army says it was responding to attacks on border guard posts by Rohingya insurgents that killed around a dozen security forces.The army this week called a rare ceasefire against ethnic armed groups in the northeast of the country but Rakhine state was not included. Analysts say the military left Rakhine out because it does not want the Arakan Army to gain a foothold in the state as well as lingering concern over the less powerful Rohingya militants, who call themselves the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army.
More than 720,000 Rohingya fled northern Rakhine to Bangladesh after Myanmar launched a crackdown on the Muslim minority in August 2017.UN investigators want senior Myanmar generals to be prosecuted for genocide but the army says it was responding to attacks on border guard posts by Rohingya insurgents that killed around a dozen security forces.The army this week called a rare ceasefire against ethnic armed groups in the northeast of the country but Rakhine state was not included. Analysts say the military left Rakhine out because it does not want the Arakan Army to gain a foothold in the state as well as lingering concern over the less powerful Rohingya militants, who call themselves the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army.
UN investigators want senior Myanmar generals to be prosecuted for genocide but the army says it was responding to attacks on border guard posts by Rohingya insurgents that killed around a dozen security forces.The army this week called a rare ceasefire against ethnic armed groups in the northeast of the country but Rakhine state was not included. Analysts say the military left Rakhine out because it does not want the Arakan Army to gain a foothold in the state as well as lingering concern over the less powerful Rohingya militants, who call themselves the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army.
The army this week called a rare ceasefire against ethnic armed groups in the northeast of the country but Rakhine state was not included. Analysts say the military left Rakhine out because it does not want the Arakan Army to gain a foothold in the state as well as lingering concern over the less powerful Rohingya militants, who call themselves the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army.
Bench also directed all authorities concerned to refrain from arresting them and instructed petitioners to appear...
Police authorities admitted that no investigation had been conducted so far but mentioned that a video had been uploaded
Khaqan said rally was scheduled to be held outside Islamabad, but government shut down half of Islamabad
Court inquired, “Under what law, you put the name in the list”
Meeting was attended by Senators Irfanul Haq Siddiqui and Samina Mumtaz Zehri, along with representatives from...
No case of incident was registered, while polio team in Jacobabad refused to perform duties, demanding strict against...
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: Myanmar Army Announces Unilateral Ceasefire Against Ethnic Rebels
Sputnik News
13:47 21.12.2018(updated 14:03 21.12.2018)
The Myanmar Army (Tatmadaw) announced a unilateral ceasefire on Friday in five regional commands (North, Northeast, East, Middle East and Triangle) to facilitate negotiations with rebel groups fighting in different parts of the country.
In the first major breakthrough since 2011, the Myanmar Army had declared a unilateral ceasefire against various rebel groups fighting in different parts of the nation. The proclaimed ceasefire includes de-escalation of troop mobilisation. The move towards a unilateral ceasefire was decided upon to facilitate un-hindered negotiations with the ethnic rebel groups.
The Myanmar Army has formed a negotiations team led by Lt. General Yar Pyae and includes senior and regional commanders. The team will discuss issues with rebel groups, especially the prominent ones like the Arakan Army in northern Rakhine state.
Nevertheless, the Myanmar Army has made it clear that ethnic armed organisations should respect four out of six principles, namely, to keep promises agreed to in peace deals, avoid capitalising on the peace agreement, avoid placing a heavy burden on local people, and to abide by existing laws.
Myanmar Army did not impose a sixth principle "to march towards a democratic country in accord with the 2008 Constitution".
In last few days over 700 people have been displaced by clashes between the Myanmar Army and the Arakan Army (AA) in northern Rakhine State.
A study conducted by the Myanmar Institute for Peace and Security (MIPS) says that there were 44 clashes in November – 21 between ethnic armed groups and the army, and 23 between ethnic armed groups themselves.

© Sputnik



Title: Myanmar policeman found killed in northern Rakhine state
Today's E-Paper
Web Stories
Shorts
Updated on:23 December,2018 11:47 AM IST  |  YangonAFP|
Private Aung Kyaw Thet went missing in action after an ambush last week by unknown assailants in Maungdaw township near the border with Bangladesh

Representational picture
The bullet-riddled body of a Myanmar policeman was found in northern Rakhine state, government media said Sunday, as tensions rise in the hotspot where the Rohingya crisis erupted last year. The western territory is a tinderbox of ethnic and religious divisions and security forces have clashed with both Rohingya insurgents and much better armed Rakhine fighters from the mostly Buddhist Arakan Army. Private Aung Kyaw Thet went missing in action after an ambush last week by unknown assailants in Maungdaw township near the border with Bangladesh.ADVERTISEMENTHis body was found two days ago with "gunshot wounds in his face, arm and leg near a hill inside the other country," according to government-backed Global New Light of Myanmar. The ambush happened the same day that two ethnic Rakhine Buddhist men disappeared while fishing in the same township and were later found with their throats slit, prompting the army to launch local "clearance operations" and raising fears of renewed large-scale violence.Sunday's report in Global New Light did not identify the alleged perpetrators of the shooting but said authorities found foxholes near the scene, bullet casings and biscuits manufactured in Bangladesh. More than 720,000 Rohingya fled northern Rakhine to Bangladesh after Myanmar launched a crackdown on the Muslim minority in August 2017. UN investigators want senior Myanmar generals to be prosecuted for genocide but the army says it was responding to attacks on border guard posts by Rohingya insurgents that killed around a dozen security forces.The army this week called a rare ceasefire against ethnic armed groups in the northeast of the country but Rakhine state was not included. Analysts say the military left Rakhine out because it does not want the Arakan Army to gain a foothold in the state as well as lingering concern over the less powerful Rohingya militants, who call themselves the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army.Catch up on all the latestCrime, National, International and Hatke newshere.Also download the new mid-dayAndroidandiOSapps to get latest updatesThis story has been sourced from a third party syndicated feed, agencies. Mid-day accepts no responsibility or liability for its dependability, trustworthiness, reliability and data of the text. Mid-day management/mid-day.com reserves the sole right to alter, delete or remove (without notice) the content in its absolute discretion for any reason whatsoever
The bullet-riddled body of a Myanmar policeman was found in northern Rakhine state, government media said Sunday, as tensions rise in the hotspot where the Rohingya crisis erupted last year. The western territory is a tinderbox of ethnic and religious divisions and security forces have clashed with both Rohingya insurgents and much better armed Rakhine fighters from the mostly Buddhist Arakan Army. Private Aung Kyaw Thet went missing in action after an ambush last week by unknown assailants in Maungdaw township near the border with Bangladesh.
ADVERTISEMENT
His body was found two days ago with "gunshot wounds in his face, arm and leg near a hill inside the other country," according to government-backed Global New Light of Myanmar. The ambush happened the same day that two ethnic Rakhine Buddhist men disappeared while fishing in the same township and were later found with their throats slit, prompting the army to launch local "clearance operations" and raising fears of renewed large-scale violence.
Sunday's report in Global New Light did not identify the alleged perpetrators of the shooting but said authorities found foxholes near the scene, bullet casings and biscuits manufactured in Bangladesh. More than 720,000 Rohingya fled northern Rakhine to Bangladesh after Myanmar launched a crackdown on the Muslim minority in August 2017. UN investigators want senior Myanmar generals to be prosecuted for genocide but the army says it was responding to attacks on border guard posts by Rohingya insurgents that killed around a dozen security forces.

The army this week called a rare ceasefire against ethnic armed groups in the northeast of the country but Rakhine state was not included. Analysts say the military left Rakhine out because it does not want the Arakan Army to gain a foothold in the state as well as lingering concern over the less powerful Rohingya militants, who call themselves the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army.
Catch up on all the latestCrime, National, International and Hatke newshere.Also download the new mid-dayAndroidandiOSapps to get latest updates
This story has been sourced from a third party syndicated feed, agencies. Mid-day accepts no responsibility or liability for its dependability, trustworthiness, reliability and data of the text. Mid-day management/mid-day.com reserves the sole right to alter, delete or remove (without notice) the content in its absolute discretion for any reason whatsoever

• This is our original content. Please fill up the form for authorized use of the content.

Captcha Code
>

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT

ADVERTISEMENT

Title: Myanmar policeman shot dead in northern Rakhine state | Myanmar | The Guardian
The body was found amid rising tensions in the hotspot where the Rohingya crisis erupted last year
The bullet-riddled body of a Myanmar policeman has been found in northern Rakhine state, government media said, as tensions rise in the hotspot where theRohingyacrisis erupted last year.
The western territory is a tinderbox of ethnic and religious divisions and security forces have clashed with both Rohingya insurgents and much better armed Rakhine fighters from the mostly Buddhist Arakan Army.
Private Aung Kyaw Thet went missing in action after an ambush last week by unknown assailants in Maungdaw township near the border with Bangladesh.
His body was found two days ago with “gunshot wounds in his face, arm and leg near a hill inside the other country,” according to government-backed Global New Light ofMyanmarnewspaper on Sunday.
The ambush happened on the day two ethnic Rakhine Buddhist men disappeared while fishing in the same township and were later found with their throats slit, prompting the army to launch local “clearance operations” and raising fears of renewed large-scale violence.
Sunday’s report in Global New Light did not identify the alleged perpetrators of the shooting but said authorities found foxholes near the scene, bullet casings and biscuits manufactured in Bangladesh.
More than 720,000 Rohingya fled northern Rakhine to Bangladesh after Myanmar launched a crackdown on the Muslim minority in August 2017.
UN investigators want senior Myanmar generals to be prosecuted for genocide but the army says it was responding to attacks on border guard posts by Rohingya insurgents that killed around a dozen security forces.
The army this week called a rare ceasefire against ethnic armed groups in the northeast of the country but Rakhine state was not included.
Analysts say the military left Rakhine out because it does not want the Arakan Army to gain a foothold in the state as well as lingering concern over the less powerful Rohingya militants, who call themselves the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army.

Title: 
Myanmar military refutes northern alliance armed group's gunfire exchange statement - Xinhua | English.news.cn

YANGON, Dec. 26 (Xinhua) -- Myanmar military has refuted a statement made by the Ta'ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), one of the Northern Alliance ethnic armed group, which accused the government forces of launching an offensive against TNLA on Monday.
Zaw Min Tun, deputy director of Public Relations and Psychological Warfare of the Office of the Commander-in-Chief (Army), said that the TNLA statement and the coverage by the Radio Free Asia and The Irrawaddy were both false, the official Global New Light of Myanmar reported on Wednesday.
The deputy director cited a military announcement issued on Dec. 21 as saying that the armed forces will unilaterally suspend all its military action against armed groups in operation areas in five regional commands for over four months starting from Dec. 21 until April 30, 2019.
The military command areas include northern, northeastern, eastern, central-eastern and triangle's.
The announcement of the Office of the Commander-in-Chief called on all those remaining non-ceasefire signatory armed groups in respective operation areas to negotiate for ceasefire and peace with the National Reconciliation and Peace Center during the military's non-operation period to sign the Nationwide Cease fire Accord (NCA).
The deputy director said the all five regional commands were given specific directions to observe ceasefire immediately after the military's Dec. 21 announcement, confirming that there has been no fighting since then.
However, he added that the military has not directed the Western Command in Rakhine state to cease its operation as there found terrorist groups active in the area which is not classified as peaceful or stable region.
The military's announcement came after Dec. 12 joint statement of three non-ceasefire signatory Northern Alliance Ethnic Forces, Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA), Ta'ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) and Arakan Army (AA), in which they voiced support for the government's efforts for national reconciliation and nationwide peace.
The three forces expressed their desire to join hands with government to settle military dispute and political matters through dialogue, while hoping for suspension of military action to pave way for the political engagement.
Exhibition marking China's reform and opening-up receives over 2 mln visitors
China launches telecommunication technology test satellite
In pics: ice and snow hotel in north China's Inner Mongolia
High-speed railway starts operation in China's coldest region
High-speed railway starts operation in China's coldest region
Winter view of Kanas scenic area in China's Xinjiang
Plum blossoms in east China's Jiangsu
In pics: construction site on Lhasa-Nyingchi section of Sichuan-Tibet Railway in China's Tibet

Title: Rebels breach Myanmar ceasefire in army attack: military | Daily Mail Online
ByAfp
Published:06:56 EDT, 28 December 2018|Updated:06:56 EDT, 28 December 2018


Conflicts have been festering in border areas since independence from Britain 70 years ago, with various armed groups fighting for autonomy, identity, resources and territory
Myanmar's army accused rebels on Friday of attacking and killing "some" of its soldiers, the first skirmish acknowledged by the military in the wake of a rare ceasefire with ethnic armed groups.
The military announced last week it would suspend "all military movements" in the troubled northern and eastern regions for four months, a move observers say is unprecedented.
Halting a simmering decades-long civil war could be a way to coax ethnic armed groups into a fractious peace process, which has been marred by continuous fighting in restive border areas.
But the Tatmadaw, the military's Myanmar name, said their soldiers stationed in Shan state were attacked on Thursday by troops from the Shan State Army (SSA) -- also known as the Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS).
"Some Tatmadaw men were killed and some injured in the attack were sent to the military hospital... for treatment," said a statement Friday from the Office of the Commander-in-Chief.
"The Tatmadaw will strongly stand by its...ceasefire declaration and respond in line with the law to the attacks of the SSA."
The army also hit out at local news outlets for publishing reports of skirmishes between the Tatmadaw and other armed groups, threatening "action in accordance with the law", said a statement posted Thursday by the military's information team.
A spokesman with RCSS's liaison office in Taunggyi, the capital of Shan State, denied the Myanmar army's account.
"Our local military commanders said it didn't happen among us," Lieutenant Colonel Sai Oo told AFP. "We have instructed our troops on the ground level already to avoid fighting."
Even with the army's declaration of a ceasefire, Myanmar's border regions are subjected to fighting between opposing armed groups.
The situation on the ground is "very complicated", said Brigadier General Tarr Phone Kyaw, a spokesman for the Taaung National Liberation Army (TNLA) -- one of the larger ethnic armed groups battling the military in the northeast.
While the TNLA is still battling the RCSS, Tarr Phone Kyaw said they are honouring the ceasefire with Myanmar government troops and there has been "no offensive" against them.
"We have been instructed to stay in our own area," he told AFP.
Conflicts have been festering in border areas since independence from Britain 70 years ago, with various armed groups fighting for autonomy, identity, resources and territory.
The peace process has been defacto leader Aung San Suu Kyi's stated priority since her party swept to power in landmark elections in 2015, as the country opened up following half a century of military rule.
But she has had no say over security policy, with the military retaining key government posts in a delicate power-sharing arrangement.
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group

Title: Myanmar coal mining ‘causing environmental disasters’ | Environment News | Al Jazeera
Lack of regulation blamed for pollution in Shan State, where many Chinese companies are investing in hazardous mining.
Farmers in Myanmar’s Shan State say coal mining operations are causing widespread environmental damage.
Bordering China and Laos, Shan State is home to several ethnic groups and is only partly under the control of Myanmar’s government.
Activists warn that pollution levels are increasing as mining operations across the state continue to grow.

Al Jazeera’s Rob McBride reports.
Follow Al Jazeera English:

Title: 
            Rebels breach Myanmar ceasefire in army attack: military
          
US
After the army announced halting a simmering decades-long civil war
COMMENTS
Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive.
For more information, please see ourComments FAQ
A suspect was arrested following an active shooter situation at Arista Flats Apartments in Broomfield, near Denver.
An active shooter situation is unfolding at Arista Flats Apartments in Broomfield, located northwest of Denver.
A 4.7-magnitude earthquake struck near Malibu early Thursday, felt as far south as Mexicali.
Harvey Weinstein indicted by a New York grand jury on new charges, which remain under seal.
Muslim, European FMs to meet in Madrid on Israel-Palestine two-state solution today
Biden administration hits back at Venezuela's election fraud with new sanctions
Russia places six foreign journalists on wanted list for illegal border entry
India, China pledge to intensify efforts for full disengagement on Himalayan border
West risks 'war' if it backs Ukraine long-range strikes, warns Putin
Greece introduces cash incentives, tax breaks to address declining birthrate
BISE Abbottabad Board HSSC Result 2024
Meghan Markle makes exit from Montecito event to attend to Archie and Lilibet
Juhi Chawla becomes India's richest actress, dethrones Aishwarya, Deepika and Priyanka
IMF pressure halts new EPZ plan
Fazl rejects govt’s claim of support for constitutional amendment
NADRA chairman restored
The cosmos started with a bang
American presidential debate
A peep into the power dynamics at educational conferences
Balochistan - the bogey of Baloch in angst
The container city
Adapting to a changing world
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
redistributed or derived from. Unless otherwise stated, all content is
copyrighted © 2024 The Express Tribune.

Title: 
German bank extends grant to Myanmar for improving agricultural infrastructure - Xinhua | English.news.cn

YANGON, Dec. 21 (Xinhua) -- The German Development Bank, KfW, has extended 5 million euros (5.7 million U.S. dollars) more grant to Myanmar for improvement of the country's agricultural transport infrastructure, the official Global New Light of Myanmar reported Friday.
Under the financing and separate agreements signed between the bank and Myanmar's Ministry of Construction in Nay Pyi Taw on Thursday, the program will be implemented within the framework of German Financial Cooperation via KfW Development Bank by the Department of Rural Roads Development of the Ministry of Construction.
The program includes upgrading of rural roads for the improvement of agricultural products in southern part of Shan state.
Germany is the first partner of Myanmar to support rural roads construction.
So far, Germany has provided Myanmar with 47 million euro grant aid to develop rural areas by upgrading and constructing rural roads and bridges.
Some German-Myanmar friendship rural roads supported by German aid in Shan state have been upgraded to promote the socio-economic life of local rural people.
China marks 40th anniversary of reform and opening-up
Macao marks 19th anniversary of returning to motherland
China's Antarctic expedition team takes sample from snow pit
U.S. stocks close lower after Fed decision
Scernery of winter maple leaves across China
Flowers seen in Gongshui River national wetland park in China's Hubei
People attend annual Christmas Run in Vilnius, Lithuania
Winter scenery across China

Title: Rebels breach Myanmar ceasefire in army attack
YANGON: Myanmar’s army accused rebels on Friday of attacking and killing "some" of its soldiers, the first skirmish acknowledged by the military in the wake of a rare ceasefire with ethnic armed groups.The military announced last week it would suspend "all military movements" in the troubled northern and eastern regions for four months, a move observers say is unprecedented. Halting a simmering decades-long civil war could be a way to coax ethnic armed groups into a fractious peace process, which has been marred by continuous fighting in restive border areas.But the Tatmadaw, the military’s Myanmar name, said their soldiers stationed in Shan state were attacked on Thursday by troops from the Shan State Army (SSA) -- also known as the Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS)."Some Tatmadaw men were killed and some injured in the attack were sent to the military hospital... for treatment," said a statement Friday from the Office of the Commander-in-Chief. "The Tatmadaw will strongly stand by its...ceasefire declaration and respond in line with the law to the attacks of the SSA."The army also hit out at local news outlets for publishing reports of skirmishes between the Tatmadaw and other armed groups, threatening "action in accordance with the law", said a statement posted Thursday by the military’s information team.A spokesman with RCSS’s liaison office in Taunggyi, the capital of Shan State, denied the Myanmar army’s account. "Our local military commanders said it didn’t happen among us," Lieutenant Colonel Sai Oo told AFP. "We have instructed our troops on the ground level already to avoid fighting."Even with the army’s declaration of a ceasefire, Myanmar’s border regions are subjected to fighting between opposing armed groups. The situation on the ground is "very complicated", said Brigadier General Tarr Phone Kyaw, a spokesman for the Taaung National Liberation Army (TNLA) -- one of the larger ethnic armed groups battling the military in the northeast.
The military announced last week it would suspend "all military movements" in the troubled northern and eastern regions for four months, a move observers say is unprecedented. Halting a simmering decades-long civil war could be a way to coax ethnic armed groups into a fractious peace process, which has been marred by continuous fighting in restive border areas.But the Tatmadaw, the military’s Myanmar name, said their soldiers stationed in Shan state were attacked on Thursday by troops from the Shan State Army (SSA) -- also known as the Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS)."Some Tatmadaw men were killed and some injured in the attack were sent to the military hospital... for treatment," said a statement Friday from the Office of the Commander-in-Chief. "The Tatmadaw will strongly stand by its...ceasefire declaration and respond in line with the law to the attacks of the SSA."The army also hit out at local news outlets for publishing reports of skirmishes between the Tatmadaw and other armed groups, threatening "action in accordance with the law", said a statement posted Thursday by the military’s information team.A spokesman with RCSS’s liaison office in Taunggyi, the capital of Shan State, denied the Myanmar army’s account. "Our local military commanders said it didn’t happen among us," Lieutenant Colonel Sai Oo told AFP. "We have instructed our troops on the ground level already to avoid fighting."Even with the army’s declaration of a ceasefire, Myanmar’s border regions are subjected to fighting between opposing armed groups. The situation on the ground is "very complicated", said Brigadier General Tarr Phone Kyaw, a spokesman for the Taaung National Liberation Army (TNLA) -- one of the larger ethnic armed groups battling the military in the northeast.
But the Tatmadaw, the military’s Myanmar name, said their soldiers stationed in Shan state were attacked on Thursday by troops from the Shan State Army (SSA) -- also known as the Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS)."Some Tatmadaw men were killed and some injured in the attack were sent to the military hospital... for treatment," said a statement Friday from the Office of the Commander-in-Chief. "The Tatmadaw will strongly stand by its...ceasefire declaration and respond in line with the law to the attacks of the SSA."The army also hit out at local news outlets for publishing reports of skirmishes between the Tatmadaw and other armed groups, threatening "action in accordance with the law", said a statement posted Thursday by the military’s information team.A spokesman with RCSS’s liaison office in Taunggyi, the capital of Shan State, denied the Myanmar army’s account. "Our local military commanders said it didn’t happen among us," Lieutenant Colonel Sai Oo told AFP. "We have instructed our troops on the ground level already to avoid fighting."Even with the army’s declaration of a ceasefire, Myanmar’s border regions are subjected to fighting between opposing armed groups. The situation on the ground is "very complicated", said Brigadier General Tarr Phone Kyaw, a spokesman for the Taaung National Liberation Army (TNLA) -- one of the larger ethnic armed groups battling the military in the northeast.
"Some Tatmadaw men were killed and some injured in the attack were sent to the military hospital... for treatment," said a statement Friday from the Office of the Commander-in-Chief. "The Tatmadaw will strongly stand by its...ceasefire declaration and respond in line with the law to the attacks of the SSA."The army also hit out at local news outlets for publishing reports of skirmishes between the Tatmadaw and other armed groups, threatening "action in accordance with the law", said a statement posted Thursday by the military’s information team.A spokesman with RCSS’s liaison office in Taunggyi, the capital of Shan State, denied the Myanmar army’s account. "Our local military commanders said it didn’t happen among us," Lieutenant Colonel Sai Oo told AFP. "We have instructed our troops on the ground level already to avoid fighting."Even with the army’s declaration of a ceasefire, Myanmar’s border regions are subjected to fighting between opposing armed groups. The situation on the ground is "very complicated", said Brigadier General Tarr Phone Kyaw, a spokesman for the Taaung National Liberation Army (TNLA) -- one of the larger ethnic armed groups battling the military in the northeast.
The army also hit out at local news outlets for publishing reports of skirmishes between the Tatmadaw and other armed groups, threatening "action in accordance with the law", said a statement posted Thursday by the military’s information team.A spokesman with RCSS’s liaison office in Taunggyi, the capital of Shan State, denied the Myanmar army’s account. "Our local military commanders said it didn’t happen among us," Lieutenant Colonel Sai Oo told AFP. "We have instructed our troops on the ground level already to avoid fighting."Even with the army’s declaration of a ceasefire, Myanmar’s border regions are subjected to fighting between opposing armed groups. The situation on the ground is "very complicated", said Brigadier General Tarr Phone Kyaw, a spokesman for the Taaung National Liberation Army (TNLA) -- one of the larger ethnic armed groups battling the military in the northeast.
A spokesman with RCSS’s liaison office in Taunggyi, the capital of Shan State, denied the Myanmar army’s account. "Our local military commanders said it didn’t happen among us," Lieutenant Colonel Sai Oo told AFP. "We have instructed our troops on the ground level already to avoid fighting."Even with the army’s declaration of a ceasefire, Myanmar’s border regions are subjected to fighting between opposing armed groups. The situation on the ground is "very complicated", said Brigadier General Tarr Phone Kyaw, a spokesman for the Taaung National Liberation Army (TNLA) -- one of the larger ethnic armed groups battling the military in the northeast.
Even with the army’s declaration of a ceasefire, Myanmar’s border regions are subjected to fighting between opposing armed groups. The situation on the ground is "very complicated", said Brigadier General Tarr Phone Kyaw, a spokesman for the Taaung National Liberation Army (TNLA) -- one of the larger ethnic armed groups battling the military in the northeast.
A firefighter uses a hose to extinguish embers in the remains of a home destroyed in the Bridge Fire, in Wrightwood,...
This collage of images shows, Indian PM Narendra Modi and India’s Opposition Leader Rahul Gandhi. —...
Rohingya refugees are seen at Thaingkhali makeshift refugee camp in Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh, September 14, 2017. —...
Spokeswoman of Russian Foreign Ministry Maria Zakharova attends a press conference held by Foreign Minister Sergei...
Ruling Morena Party senator Gerardo Fernandez Norona and members of Mexico's Senate celebrate after they passed the...
Iraq's Prime Minister Mohammed Shia al-Sudani and Iran's President Masoud Pezeshkian attend a ceremony signing...
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: News and Events | Johns Hopkins | Bloomberg School of Public Health
Stay up to date on all the International Health news and events.
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health615 N. Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD 21205
Johns Hopkins University

Title: Myanmar’s Conflicts Are Even Worse Than Often Discussed | Council on Foreign Relations
Climate Change
Global Climate Agreements: Successes and Failures
Backgrounderby Lindsay MaizlandDecember 5, 2023Renewing America
Myanmar
Myanmar’s Troubled History
Backgrounderby Lindsay MaizlandJanuary 31, 2022
Health
How New Tobacco Control Laws Could Help Close the Racial Gap on U.S. Cancer
Interactiveby Olivia  Angelino,Thomas J. Bollyky, Elle Ruggiero and Isabella TurilliFebruary 1, 2023Global Health Program
United States
Reagan
BookbyMax BootSeptember 10, 2024
Oil and Petroleum Products
Academic Webinar: The Geopolitics of Oil
Webinarwith Carolyn Kissane andIrina A. FaskianosApril 12, 2023
Europe
NATO’s Future: Enlarged and More European?
Virtual Eventwith Emma M. Ashford, Michael R. Carpenter, Camille Grand, Thomas Wright, Liana Fix andCharles A. KupchanJune 25, 2024Europe Program
More on:
Myanmar
Southeast Asia
Over the past two years, the international community, and much of the media, has focused on the situation in western Myanmar’s Rakhine State, where a brutal campaign against the Rohingya, reportedly by the Myanmar military and its associates, has been called crimes against humanity and genocide by leadingrights organizationsand theUnited Nations. The situation in Rakhine is undoubtedly horrific, and there appears to be little chance of it improving measurably in the coming years. Despite an agreement by Bangladesh and Myanmar to begin repatriating Rohingya from Bangladesh back to Myanmar, few Rohingya are willing to return, given that little has changed on the ground in Rakhine State. Some Rohingya are trying toescaperefugee camps to prevent themselves from having to return to Myanmar.The horrendous situation in Rakhine State, which is essentially defended by Myanmar’s civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi, is compounded by the fact that, in other parts of the north, east, and northeast, violent conflict has spiked as well, despite getting little attention from the international media, save some Southeast Asia–focused outlets. The spiraling conflict in other parts of the country undermines any hope for a longtime peace agreement between the central government and ethnic minority armies, adds to instability in Myanmar, and potentially further empowers the military, which takes advantage of instability to continually assert itself as the real power in the country.AsAsia Timesrecentlynoted, the Karen National Union (KNU), one of the longest-standing insurgent groups, now has pulled out of the Myanmar government’s peace initiative with ethnic minority rebel outfits, at least temporarily. This deals a further blow to the sputtering peace initiative, one of the Suu Kyi administration’s biggest priorities. The KNU had been the biggest group to sign onto the initiative. The withdrawal sets the stage for possible renewed conflict between the KNU and the military.Meanwhile, in the north, the Kachin Independence Organization and its armed wing, the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), which are not signatories to the peace imitative, have been engaged in significantly stepped-up conflict with army units. As longtime Southeast Asia conflict expert Anthony Davisnotes, the military has been engaged in the broadest counterinsurgency program in Myanmar in “decades,” and in response the KIA has prepared for long-term guerilla warfare with the military, with no end in sight. Davis notes that the military launched multiple dry season offensives against the KIA earlier in the year. These offensives have caused significant civilian casualties, with internally displaced people fleeing to camps throughout Kachin State. UNCHR, in areportreleased earlier this year, said there had been a recent “spike in reported human rights violations and abuses and violations of international humanitarian law in Kachin and Shan states.”Meanwhile, the lack of any progress between the central government and ethnic armies in the north and east like the KIA further convinces other insurgent groups that Naypyidaw has no real interest in peace. Many of the smaller ethnic armies are increasingly suspicious of the peace initiative, while the United Wa State Army, the biggest armed ethnic group in Myanmar, has no real reason to move forward and support the peace initiative.The United States has little influence over Naypyidaw’s approach to these myriad conflicts. U.S.-Myanmar relations are tense, due largely to the crisis in Rakhine State. Other outside actors—notably China—do have real leverage over Naypyidaw’s approach to the ethnic armies, especially since some of the conflicts, such as those in Shan state, flare up right by China’s borders. China has shown somesignsof support for the peace process, such as paying for some representatives of armed insurgent groups to attend talks with Naypyidaw and serving as an interlocutor for some of the ethnic armies.
But if Naypyidaw can provide stability on China’s borders by crushing insurgent groups, rather than a peace deal, Beijing probably would be happy with that result too. So far, Beijing seems content to mostly back the Myanmar military’s approach to Kachin State. Fortify Rights, a rights documenting group, released areportin August noting that Beijing has tried to keep aid groups from assisting internally displaced people in Kachin State, near the Chinese border, a move that could cause even more suffering.
More on:
Myanmar
Southeast Asia
Blog Post
Blog Post
Backgrounder

Title: Myanmar: Peace Talks Belied by Ongoing Conflict in Rakhine and Chin States - Myanmar | ReliefWeb
Myanmar
Over the past few months, battles between the Myanmar military and the Arakan Army (AA) have increased in Rakhine and Chin states. Initially during the Union Solidarity and Development Party (USDP) administration, and now during the National League for Democracy (NLD) administration, ethnic armed organizations (EAOs) that once had limited numbers and military capabilities have gained in strength by allying with more powerful EAOs, posing a challenge to the peace process. The continued insistence by the government and military that all EAOs sign the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement (NCA) before engaging in further substantive dialogue has only exacerbated the many armed conflicts in the country.
Along with ongoing fighting in Kachin and northern Shan state, the clashes in Rakhine and Chin states come as the peace process is faltering even among groups who are already signatories to the NCA. The Karen National Union/Karen National Liberation Army (KNU/KNLA) and the Restoration Council of Shan State/Shan State Army-South (RCSS/SSA-S), two key signatories to the NCA, have suspended their participation in formal peace negotiations (The Irrawaddy, 12 November 2018). While informal meetings have since been held in an attempt bring these groups back into the formal process, the military continues to hold to its six-point plan while EAOs argue for more attention to issues of equality and self-determination in the building of a democratic federal union. EAOs have also pushed for the inclusion of all ethnic armed groups in the formal peace talks, not just those who have signed the NCA (The Irrawaddy, 19 November 2018).
The Myanmar government and military have long refused to include the Arakan Army (AA), as well as the Palaung State Liberation Front/Ta’ang National Liberation Army (PSLF/TNLA) and Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA), in formal peace talks now held under the banner of the 21st Century Union Peace Conference. It is the lack of inclusion in the formal peace process that led these three groups to band with four other non-signatory EAOs to form the Federal Political Negotiation and Consultative Committee (FPNCC) in an attempt to gain leverage in arguing for a new framework for peace negotiations. When the government’s Peace Commission met informally with the AA, PSLF/TNLA, and MNDAA in Kunming, China concerning the possibility of joining the 21st Century Panglong Union Peace Conference, the three groups expressed a willingness to find a political solution to the ongoing armed conflicts, though details on a way forward have not yet been forthcoming (The Irrawaddy, 13 December 2018).
It is against this backdrop that conflict in Rakhine and Chin states has been on the rise (see Figure 1). Drawing recruits partly from Rakhine working in the mines in Hpakant, Kachin state (Asia Times, 11 June 2017), the AA is believed to be around 3,000 strong (Myanmar Peace Monitor, 12 December 2018). Having been trained and supported by the Kachin Independence Organization/Kachin Independence Army (KIO/KIA), the AA has gained battlefield experience fighting alongside the KIO/KIA in Kachin and northern Shan state. They have likewise fought in joint operations with the PSLF/TNLA and MNDAA, groups that the KIO/KIA also trained and supported. The four groups have fought together in various combinations, often under the name the Northern Alliance. In 2015, coming off fighting alongside the MNDAA in their battles with the Myanmar military in the Kokang area of Shan state, the AA began engaging in clashes with the Myanmar military in Rakhine and Chin states. The heaviest fighting between the AA and the Myanmar military occurred in November 2017.
While a significant portion of the fighting between the AA and the Myanmar military occurs in Rakhine state, the majority of battles between the two have occurred in Paletwa township in Chin state which borders Rakhine state (see Figure 2). The poorest township in the poorest state in Myanmar, Paletwa is located off the banks of the Kaladan river, a key means of transit in the region. It is the site of the Indian government’s Kaladan Multi-Modal Transport (KMMT) project as well as other development projects (Tea Circle Oxford, 17 May 2018). Recent fighting between the AA and the Myanmar military in Paletwa has led to displacement and hardship for many villagers. It has also raised the specter of conflict between ethnic armed groups in the region, as the Chin National Front/Chin National Army (CNF/CNA), a signatory to the NCA, has suggested it will engage the AA if its actions continue to affect Chin civilians (Euro Burma Office, 3 July 2015).
Popular support for the AA has risen along with a growing Rakhine ethnic nationalism that is founded not solely in opposition to the Rohingya, but out of a distrust of the Burman majority. Earlier in the year, when a march in Mrauk-U, marking the anniversary of the fall of the Rakhine kingdom, was met with the police shooting and killing seven demonstrators, it exacerbated tensions in the region (The New York Times, 17 January 2018). The subsequent arrest of Dr. Aye Maung, the leader of the largest ethnic Rakhine political party, the Arakan National Party (ANP), on charges of supporting the AA also led to many demonstrations in the state (see ACLED’s piece on demonstrations in Myanmar this past yearhere). More recently, a man who released a balloon with the leader of the AA’s portrait on it wishing him happy birthday was sentenced to two years in prison under Article 17 (1) of the Unlawful Associations Act, a law that is often used to imprison those with contacts to groups deemed unlawful (The Irrawaddy, 27 November 2018).
With the recent by-elections showing a decline in the support of the NLD in ethnic regions (Myanmar Times, 5 November 2018), the ongoing peace process is likely to face more challenges. The growing number of military bases being built in Rakhine state also raises concern (Amnesty International, 12 March 2018). While talking peace, it is likely that conflict across the country, including in Rakhine and Chin states, will continue.
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Over 70,000 Kachin IDPs face food shortage - Myanmar | ReliefWeb
Myanmar
By Soe Thu Aung
Food supplies cannot be transported through Chinese territory to over 70,000 Kachin Internally Displaced People (IDPs) staying along the Sino-Myanmar border because of a war game being conducted by the army of the People’s Republic of China.
Rev. Dr. Hkalam Samson from Kachin Baptist Convention (KBC) said, “China bans our usual transport of food supplies to the IDP camps along the border. We can do nothing. Now the ban has been over two weeks so we have difficulties in supplying food such as rice and other basic foodstuffs to these camps.”
He added that people in these camps badly need food and Kachin religious groups and organizations helping IDPs would hold a meeting to try to address the issue.
International organizations and UN agencies are assisting IDP camps along Sino-Myanmar border by sending food. Currently nearly 80,000 IDPs are taking refuge at IDP camps in Kachin Independence Army (KIA) controlled areas and over 60,000 IDPs are staying in camps in government-controlled area.
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar+ 1 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: The Kachin IDP crisis: Myanmar’s other humanitarian disaster | Human Rights | Al Jazeera
As the world focuses on the Rohingya issue, the Myanmar army stands accused of targeting another group in Kachin State.
Kachin, Myanmar –A Myanmar military unit that has been sanctioned by the US Treasury Department was sent to Northern Rakhine State, where more than 700,000 Rohingya Muslims fled across the border to Bangladesh,last year.
The 33rd Light Infantry Division (LID), known for its brutality, is nowback in actionin Kachin.




Where they go, human rights abuses follow, local aid workers say.
This is the same group of soldiers that carried out extrajudicial executions, forced disappearances, and sexual violence, as well as firing on fleeing villagers inRakhine State in August and September 2017.
“These tactics are familiar to communities in Kachin,” says David Baulk, a Myanmar human rights expert. “The history of the 33rd LID’s operations in these areas is long and bloody.”
When fighting broke out in Kachin in April, the 33rd LID was involved as the conflict between the Myanmar army, or Tatmadaw, and Kachin Independence Army (KIA) intensified, local civil society groups say.
The Tatmadaw, in the first six months of the year,contributedto thedisplacement of 14,000 peopleMyanmar Humanitarian Brief – September 2018.pdf.
One group of these villagers now sits in a church compound in Myitkyina, Kachin’s capital.
“Fighting started in April. Four military fighter jets came over us. We heard a motor gun. Three people in our town were injured and one died. Our village had only 2,000 people, we were all friends,” says Phyo Su Lat.
“We hid in a farm for three days, helping the old, sick and young. Then every two to three days we moved through the jungle, nine times in total. We made camps in the forest hiding from the military who were chasing us. We could hear their planes and their guns, their machines and drones, night and day. We were scared that if they caught up with us, women would be raped, men tortured and killed.”
Three people died on the journey: a newborn baby, a five-year-old boy and a 60-year-old man.
Nyunt Sein Moe, another villager, says they were the lucky ones.
“In another town nearby, our friends were used as human shields and forcibly recruited. They had to travel with the army, and when they got to an area infected with landmines, two men were made to walk in front. A landmine exploded on one.”
The state-building project of the Myanmar government hinges on their control of the country's ethnic states, not least because these areas are home to extremely lucrative natural resources and large-scale development projects.
byDavid Baulk, Myanmar analyst
Dating back to 1962, the conflict centres around the KIA, an ethnic militia numbering near 10,000 seeking greater federalism or independence, and the Tatmadaw, which has traditionally used force in its efforts to maintain the state.
“At the heart of the Kachin conflict is the Myanmar government’s rejection of the Kachins’ longstanding demands for a genuinely federal state in which their human rights are protected,” says Baulk.
“The state-building project of the Myanmar government hinges on their control of the country’s ethnic states, not least because these areas are home to extremely lucrative natural resources and large-scale development projects.”
Both the KIA and Tatmadaw rely on natural resources for their survival, with much of themilitary’s incomecomingfrom jade alone.
“The places where the army moves are very strategic.Where they focus are areas of vast natural resources, like jade and ruby, or amber,” says Khon Ja, a researcher and advocate at Kachin Women’s Peace Network.
“They also go to places where we have national plans, such as road and rail construction, including the One Belt One Road project. Fighting at the moment is in KIA-controlled areas, indicating the army is encroaching on areas that are resource-heavy or part of economic plans. The Tatmadaw doesn’t ask if people will move, they just go and fight.
“It’s huge money. [China’s] One Belt One Road project is an economic corridor through Myanmar. The plan is to build infrastructure, road, rail waterways, to connect China’s landlocked region. Once they are able to open this corridor their goods can transport through the region and globally.”
With no political progress on these issues, a 17-year ceasefire ended in 2011, leading to thousands more IDPs.
In another camp in Kachin, IDP Than Khin Khin says: “In April, we heard military trucks move in with 1,000 troops. A military fighter jet flew over and shot at a location near ours and we heard heavy machine gun fire. We were scared. We fled to another village and waited there. Some of us were rescued quickly but the rest were made to wait at a checkpoint, near the conflict zone and with scarce food, for a week.”
A friend, Thuya Zaw Win, adds: “Our friends in some villages nearby could not get away. In areas of fighting, they are not allowed to leave, even though bullets were flying by their heads from machine guns. The villagers are kept close as human shields, so that the enemy doesn’t attack.”
Organisations such as the International Committee of the Red Cross have been working hard to help the displaced when they arrive, upgrading makeshift camps, creating newer camps that have electricity and clean water.
Yet even in the camps, IDPs to not feel safe.
Given shallow international financing, “in desperation some have gone back to their villages, putting themselves in danger. When people flee they leave everything and have to go back. They could step on a landmine or be arrested by the Tatmadaw and killed,” says Khon Ja of Kachin Women’s Peace Network. “Since 2017 five people from IDP camps have been killed by the Tatmadawafter being tortured. One was 65 years old and another was handicapped.”
“We do not want to go home: we are scared it is not safe. You need to find a solution to the conflict before forcing people to return,” says Htun Kyi Lwin.
Nyunt Sein Moe adds: “In a village nearby people were asked to return, and when they did they were shot. Everyone said it would be fine but they got caught in the middle of the conflict and had to flee again.”
As IDPs flee and linger in camps, Chinese companies are entering and planting bananas on their land for export back to China.
According to Kachin rights groups, there are now dozens of Chinese businesses and thousands of Chinese technical experts working in the state.
Often the original land owners are still in the camps, unaware their land has been taken.
In other cases, Chinese companies send agents who offer IDPs meagre sums to rent the land.
Desperate, many accept. Those who do not are threatened that if they do not agree, the government will create an industrial zone and rent it to the companies anyway, says San Htoi, joint general secretary of Kachin Women’s Association of Thailand.
When IDPs contest it, they fail as they do not have a land registration, having lived on it for generations.
The result is many do not have a home to return to, and consequently take a risk by going back to secure their land.
“[This is] making it illegal for people to go to their own land. This is hundreds of thousands of acres. In many cases, when people go back to their homeland in conflict areas, they have been arrested, or killed by the Tatmadaw,” Khon Ja says.
At the same time, humanitarian access has been decreasing, as civilian and military authorities work together to weaponise the denial of humanitarian aid to Kachin State, according to areportfromFortify Rights.
“It’s difficult to survive in camps because the government has been blocking international humanitarian aid,” San Htoi says. “Some camps in Kachin have no humanitarian support by NGOs whatsoever. So many IDPs do not want to stay. They want to return to their homeland, which they are worried about losing, but it’s dangerous.”
Before the 2015 election, many hoped situation would change as Aung San Suu Kyi swept to power.
But humanitarian access to areas beyond government control has become worse since the elections, says Pierre Peron, public information and advocacy officer in Myanmar for the United Nations’ Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. “Before 2015 we would get travel authorizations to go to displacement camps in non-Government areas; since then that has become almost completely cut off. Since elections things have gotten worse for many people in Kachin. That’s the sad fact.”
For Baulk, the human rights expert, denying access to humanitarian aid is part of the Myanmar army’s long history of perpetrating extensive and systematic human rights violations against the Kachin.
“Extrajudicial killings, sexual violence, torture, the use of human shields, arbitrary arrest and detention, the targeted denial of humanitarian aid – the list goes on and on, and continues to grow day by day. And it will continue to grow as long as the perpetrators of these crimes are not brought to justice.”









Follow Al Jazeera English: