Title: Savaş ve ekonomik krizin gölgesinde Ramazan  | Euronews
No Comment
Önyargısız, sansürsüz, yorumsuz, No Comment. Haberleri yorumsuz izleyin.
Climate Now
Size dünyanın önde gelen kaynaklarının son iklim verilerini sunuyoruz. İklim değişikliğinin etkilerini azaltmak için yeni stratejiler arayan uzmanlarla görüşerek, son durumu analiz ediyor ve gezegenimizin değişimini açıklıyoruz.
No Comment
Önyargısız, sansürsüz, yorumsuz, No Comment. Haberleri yorumsuz izleyin.
Climate Now
Size dünyanın önde gelen kaynaklarının son iklim verilerini sunuyoruz. İklim değişikliğinin etkilerini azaltmak için yeni stratejiler arayan uzmanlarla görüşerek, son durumu analiz ediyor ve gezegenimizin değişimini açıklıyoruz.
İslam dünyasında Ramazan heyecanı başladı. Ancak savaş ve ekonomik krizin vurduğu coğrafyalarda bu heyecanı hissetmek gittikçe zorlaşıyor.
İslam dünyasında Ramazan heyecanı başladı. Ancak savaş ve ekonomik krizin vurduğu coğrafyalarda bu heyecanı hissetmek gittikçe zorlaşıyor. İsrail kuşatması altındaki Gazze Şeridi'nde, büyükelçilik protestolarında yaşanan katliam Ramazan coşkusuna gölge düşürdü.
Gazze sakinleri ekonomik şartların da her geçen gün kötüleştiğini belirtiyor: "Ramazan bu yıl önceki yıllara oranla çok farklı. Durum kötüye gidiyor. İyi bir Ramazan geçirmeyeli yıllar oldu. Maaş kesintilerinden dolayı bu yıl da çok zor. İnsanlar evlerinin ihtiyaçlarını karşılayamıyor. Durum gerçekten sıkıntılı, Allah yardımcımız olsun."
Irak'ın Musul kentinde uzun bir aradan sonra pazarlara Ramazan öncesi alışveriş canlılığı yansıdı.
IŞİD işgalindne kurtulan kentte halk, önceki yıllara oranla durumlarından memnun: "Çok şükür bu yıl geçen yıllardan daha iyi. Terörden kurtulunca rahatladık. Tüm Irak'ta barış olması için dua ediyorum. Allah'a şükrediyoruz."
Suudi Arabistan müdahalesi ve iç savaşın vurduğu Yemen'de ise Ramazan, büyük bir insani dramın gölgesinde yaşanıyor.
Başkent Sanaa'da halk, çatışma ve bombardımandan uzak bir Ramazan hayal ediyor: "Önceden Ramazan yaklaşınca çarşı pazar alışveriş yapmak için gelen heyecanlı insanlarla dolardı. İnsanların sabit gelirleri vardı. Fakat bu yıl tam bir felaketle karşı karşıyayız."
Sabır ayı Ramazan'a, yokluk içinde giren Rohingya Müslümanları da, Bangaldeş'te sığındıkları mülteci kamplarında kendilerine ulaşacak yardımları bekliyor.
Bangladeş'teki kamplarda, Myanmar ordusunun katliamlarından kaçan yaklaşık 700 bin kişi yaşıyor.



Title: Myanmar insurgents free 2 of 3 abductees | The Daily Star
Workers’ minimum wage to be reviewed
Killer of Pathao founder gets  40 years in jail
B’baria Border: Former MP Fazle Karim arrested
Rab arrests ex-DMP  chief Asaduzzaman
Myanmar insurgents yesterday released two of three abductees in remote Bandarban, police said.
Members of Arakan Army kidnapped Hri Mya Marma, 43, and her sister-in-law Mya Nu Prue, 30, and Atui Mong, husband of Hri Mya on Friday.
The insurgents group from Myanmar released Hri Mya Marma, 43, and Mya Nu Prue, 30, while Atui Mong is still in their captivity.
Atui is a karbari (village chief) in remote Tong Kyong Para in Thanchi upazila, said Bandarban Superintendent of Police Md Zakir Hossain Majumdar.
Mong Sing of Tong Kyong Para said a group of Arakan Army, an insurgent outfit of Myanmar, cordoned off the area and took the three people away on Friday.
“Arakan Army came to our para to search for Mong Mong Shwe, 25, who joined the outfit two years ago. Mong ran away from the outfit's camp on Thursday. He fled when the Arakan Army came,” he said.
Mong is son of Atui Karbari, said union parishad Chairman Mangchar Mro.
উপদেষ্টা পরিষদের বৈঠকের পর পরিবেশ উপদেষ্টা সৈয়দা রিজওয়ানা হাসান এ কথা জানান।

Title: 
Myanmar receives back first 62 returnees from Bangladesh: gov't - Xinhua | English.news.cn

YANGON, May 27 (Xinhua) -- Myanmar has received first 62 returnees through Nga Khu Ya reception camp in Rakhine state, who had fled to Bangladesh due to the Rakhine conflict, according to a statement from the State Counselor's Office Sunday.
The returnees include 58 persons pardoned by the President and four lifted from prosecution.
They had first returned by their own arrangement, ignoring the official procedure, and they had been arrested by the Myanmar authorities earlier.
However, pardoned by the president, they were brought to the reception camp on Saturday.
In accordance with the Myanmar-Bangladesh agreement, those returnees will be transferred to the Hla Pho Khaung transit camp in Maungtaw after proper verification, the statement said.
Myanmar and Bangladesh had reached an agreement on the arrangement concerning the return of displaced people from Rakhine state on Nov. 23 last year.
The Myanmar side has made arrangements to receive returnees by establishing two reception centers -- Nga Khu Ya and Taung Pyo Latwe and one Hla Phoe Khaung transit camp in Maungtaw.
The Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army extremist terrorists launched attacks on police outposts in Rakhine on Aug. 25 last year, displacing residents from a number of areas in Maungtaw district.
YANGON, May 27 (Xinhua) -- Myanmar has received first 62 returnees through Nga Khu Ya reception camp in Rakhine state, who had fled to Bangladesh due to the Rakhine conflict, according to a statement from the State Counselor's Office Sunday.
The returnees include 58 persons pardoned by the President and four lifted from prosecution.
They had first returned by their own arrangement, ignoring the official procedure, and they had been arrested by the Myanmar authorities earlier.
However, pardoned by the president, they were brought to the reception camp on Saturday.
In accordance with the Myanmar-Bangladesh agreement, those returnees will be transferred to the Hla Pho Khaung transit camp in Maungtaw after proper verification, the statement said.
Myanmar and Bangladesh had reached an agreement on the arrangement concerning the return of displaced people from Rakhine state on Nov. 23 last year.
The Myanmar side has made arrangements to receive returnees by establishing two reception centers -- Nga Khu Ya and Taung Pyo Latwe and one Hla Phoe Khaung transit camp in Maungtaw.
The Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army extremist terrorists launched attacks on police outposts in Rakhine on Aug. 25 last year, displacing residents from a number of areas in Maungtaw district.
Copyright © 2000 - 2018 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-12 20:52Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: 19 Killed in Myanmar Fighting
Print
An ethnic rebel group in northern Myanmar has attacked security forces at a casino in an area near China's border, killing 19 people, including 15 civilians and four security forces. Twenty people were wounded.Government spokesman Zaw Htay said the rebel operation was "...a destructive terrorist attack."The rebel group Ta'ang National Liberation Army, or TNLA, has claimed responsibility for the attack Saturday in the town of Muse in Shan state.TNLA spokesman Colonel Tar Aik Kyaw said the attack targeted soldiers and the militiamen who run the casino, but conceded that civilians could have been caught in the crossfire.Shan State is located at a border crossing between Myanmar and China's Yunnan province, a major trading point between the two countries.The TNLA is one of several groups fighting for more autonomy in northern Myanmar.
The Voice of America provides news and information in more than 40 languages to an estimated weekly audience of over 326 million people. Stories with the VOA News byline are the work of multiple VOA journalists and may contain information from wire service reports.


Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-12 20:52Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: UN Worries of Escalation Between Military Forces and Armed Groups in Myanmar | Al Bawaba
The U.N. on Tuesday warned of increasing attacks perpetrated by military forces and armed groups in the Kachin and Shan states of Myanmar.
"We are deeply concerned about the escalation in attacks by military forces and armed groups in Kachin and northern Shan States in Myanmar. Some 7,400 people have been internally displaced in Kachin State since early April," U.N. human rights spokesman Rupert Colville said in a press conference in U.N. at Geneva on Tuesday.
The Myanmar military and the Kachin Independent Army (KIA), an armed ethnic group, have engaged in clashes after a 17-year cease-fire broke down in June 2011.
Thousands of people have been forced to flee their homes as fighting between the military and Kachin Independence Army (KIA) has escalated in the northern Kachin state since April.
"About 2,000 of these civilians spent about four weeks trapped in the jungle after fleeing the fighting in the conflict zone of Awng Lat, but this weekend, they were reportedly relocated to other towns in Kachin State. Many more remain trapped in areas of active fighting, with extremely difficult escape routes through mountains and forests, and in need of humanitarian support," Colville said.
"In Shan State, on Saturday, at least 14 civilians were reportedly killed and at least 20 others injured in attacks by armed groups, with the military mounting an offensive in response," Colville said.
The ethnic rebel group Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) said it had launched surprise attacks on three military outposts near and in Muse, a major trading town in the northeastern part of Shan, earlier in the day.



"There are also reports that the military, known as the Tatmadaw, has used heavy weaponry an aerial bombing in the region. More than 600 people have been displaced in Namtu Township in northern Shan," Colville said.
Kachin and Shan are not the only states to have faced their share of violence in Myanmar.
Since Aug. 25, 2017, some 750,000 Rohingya, mostly children and women, fled Myanmar when Myanmar forces launched a crackdown on the minority Muslim community, according to the Amnesty International.
At least 9,000 Rohingya were killed in the western Rakhine state from Aug. 25 to Sept. 24, according to Doctors Without Borders.
In a report published on Dec. 12, the global humanitarian organization said the deaths of 71.7 percent or 6,700 Rohingya were caused by violence. They include 730 children below the age of 5.
The Rohingya, described by the UN as the world's most persecuted people, have faced heightened fears of attack since dozens were killed in communal violence in 2012.
The U.N. has documented mass gang rapes, killings -- including of infants and young children -- brutal beatings, and disappearances committed by security personnel. In a report, U.N. investigators said such violations may have constituted crimes against humanity.

This article has been adapted from its original source.
ViaSyndiGate.info
� Copyright Andolu Ajansi
Subscribe to our newsletter for exclusive updates and enhanced content
Subscribe


Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-12 20:52Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: China Protests Fighting Along Myanmar Border
Print
China on Sunday condemned fighting in Myanmar between Myanmar government troops and ethnic militants near the Chinese border that caused people to flee into Chinese territory.
Myanmar’s military frequently clashes with several groups who say they are fighting for greater autonomy for ethnic minorities in the area, through which much of Myanmar’s foreign trade flows.
The Myanmar government said Saturday that ethnic insurgents in Myanmar killed 19 people, including four members of the security forces, in a major attack near the main border gate with China.
Fifteen civilians, including two women, were killed, and 20 were wounded, according to a government spokesman.
​The Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), made up of fighters from the Ta’ang or Palaung ethnic group, said the group had attacked a casino run by militiamen and a Myanmar army post on the outskirts of border town Muse, a few hundred meters from a river that separates Myanmar’s northern Shan state and China’s Yunnan province.
China’s embassy in Myanmar said in a statement that the conflict had sent stray bullets into China, along with an unidentified number of people seeking refuge.
“China’s embassy in Myanmar condemns this violent incident, and feels pained for the relevant innocent people who were harmed,” the embassy said in a statement, adding that it had made “solemn representations” to Myanmar’s government.
China called for all parties to “exercise restraint,” implement a ceasefire, and prevent the situation from escalating, so as to restore peace to the China-Myanmar border region.
Violence on the Myanmar side of the border has in recent years sent thousands fleeing through the rugged mountain terrain into China, where the Chinese government at times has set up relief camps.
In 2017, Chinese authorities estimated a flare-up of violence to have sent more than 20,000 refugees across the border, and fighting in 2009 and 2015 displaced tens of thousands of people. Ordnance has occasionally strayed into China and killed people.
Such conflict has frayed ties between China and Myanmar, which Beijing has hoped could be a key gateway in its multi-pronged “One Belt One Road” strategy to promote regional economic links.
Reuters is a news agency founded in 1851 and owned by the Thomson Reuters Corporation based in Toronto, Canada. One of the world's largest wire services, it provides financial news as well as international coverage in over 16 languages to more than 1000 newspapers and 750 broadcasters around the globe.


Title: Work on Myanmar dam goes on under heavy guard | The Star
Tuesday, 08 May 2018
Taunggyi (Shan state): Work on a massive hydropower dam appears to be picking up in eastern Myanmar as the electricity-starved nation seeks ways to light more homes amid protests from locals and environmentalists.
Locals say employees of a Chinese state-owned power firm in Shan state have been working under heavy guard at the Mong Ton Hydropower project along the Salween river.
RM13.90/monthRM6.95 only
Billed as RM6.95 for the 1st month then RM13.90 thereafters.
RM12.33/monthRM6.17/month
Billed as RM78 for the 1st year then RM148 thereafters.
Free Trial
For new subscribers only
Tags / Keywords:World,myanmar

Report it to us.
Thank you for your report!

Copyright © 1995-Star Media Group Berhad [197101000523 (10894-D)]
Best viewed on Chrome browsers.

We would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion. Kindly fill the form below
We hope you enjoy this feature!

Title: 19 Killed in Fighting Between Myanmar Army, Ethnic Armed Group: Myanmar Army - News18
Edited By:Bijaya Das
AFP
Last Updated:May 12, 2018, 20:03 IST
Image for Representation only.
Yangon: At least 19 people have been killed in fresh clashes between Myanmar's military and an ethnic armed group on Saturday in remote northern Shan State, Myanmar army and local sources told AFP, as fighting in the country's borderlands intensifies.

"Nineteen people were killed in fighting," the military source said, adding that two-dozen had been injured.

Rights defenders say clashes in northern Myanmar near the China border have ramped up in recent months as the international community focuses on the Rohingya crisis in the west of the country.

The military stands accused of carrying out an ethnic cleansing campaign against the stateless minority in Rakhine.

Today's violence was between the military and the Ta'ang National Liberation Army, or TNLA, one of several insurgent groups fighting for more autonomy in the north.

"Fighting took place since 5am this morning at three places: two military bases in Muse and one near a bridge on the way to Lashio town," TNLA spokesman Major Mai Aik Kyaw told AFP, citing two of the towns in northern Shan where the clashes occurred.

Title: Myanmar’s Fighting Season in Kachin – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
The fighting in Kachin is a microcosm of Myanmar’s stalled peace process.
In Myanmar, life often follows the seasons. Farmers burn their fields during the hot season, and harvest them after the rains. Migrant workers in the mines wait for the clouds to go home and visit their family. And when the roads dry out, the armies go to war.
Residents of Kachin state, in Myanmar’s far north, have grown accustomed to this cycle during the past seven years. In 2011, the Kachin Independence Army (KIA) went to war against Myanmar’s national armed forces, known locally as the Tatmadaw. It wasn’t so much a new fight as it was a continuation of Myanmar’s long, exhausting civil war. The conflict between the central government and myriad opposition groups has continued unabated in one form or another since 1948, making it the world’s longest continuing armed conflict. The KIA first began fighting for their right to self-govern in 1961, and continued that battle until 1994, when they signed a ceasefire with the country’s military-run government. After a 17-year lull in the fighting, the KIA resumed their insurgency in 2011. Since then, the fighting has displaced 120,000 residents of Kachin and Shan states, while land mines and indiscriminate shelling have killed and injured thousands.
Last fall, at the beginning of the fighting season, it seemed as though the violence in Kachin state might finally start dying down. Buoyed by the KIA’s battlefield successes during the 2016-2107 dry season, optimistic residents had hope that the current fighting season would bring a different pattern from the previous years. “This year, I think that the two sides will finally come together,” Brang Si, a farmer from Myikytina, said last October. “I think that because the KIA has been able to defend their territory, the Tatmadaw will not try again.”
The KIA has refused to join the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement, and insists that the current negotiating platform is biased against minority ethnic groups. Instead, they have joined with six other self-identifying “ethnic armed revolutionary organizations,” to create an alternative dialogue structure, called the Federal Political Negotiation and Consultative Committee. The FPNCC is dominated by the powerful United Wa State Army, often seen as a Chinese proxy group in Myanmar, and some analysts see the group as a vehicle for China to gain leverage over the country’s peace process.
Echoing that sentiment, a Kachin Independence Organization (KIO) representative, Dau Hka, said that the organization expected the fighting to decrease. “We can say that the fighting will be less and less,” he said in December. “We expect change will be imposed by China.”
But by early February 2018, it had become clear that the fighting was in fact more and more. As the roads dried out, the Tatmadaw launched a massive offensive against KIA strongholds across the north. Among other areas, the military began targeting KIA-controlled gold and amber mining areas in Tanai township in order to cut off a critical revenue source. Within days, thousands of residents were stranded without food or assistance, some seeking refuge in underground mines. By April, the conditions had grown even worse, as a wide KIA counteroffensive cut off what little access there had been between the battlefield and secure areas. KIA forces destroyed roads and bridges throughout northern Kachin state, making it impossible for humanitarian groups to reach certain areas and driving up the costs of staple such as rice and gasoline. Where humanitarian groups could reach, they were often harassed by Tatmadaw troops who were afraid of information leaking out.
Tanai is a difficult battleground. Its geography is not naturally friendly to the KIA, whose guerrilla fighting style is much more suited to the steep mountains and thick jungle found in the rest of Kachin state.
“We can keep this fight going for many years. We just disappear back into the jungle. Especially in northern Shan state, the geography is very much on our side,” said Dau Hka, the KIO spokesman. But over the last few years, the Tatmadaw has squeezed KIA forces along the Chinese border, limiting their opportunities for lucrative cross-border trade. As a result, the militia has been forced to expand their holdings to other, less secure parts of the north, such as the amber mines of Tanai.
The spring offensive has been felt all over Kachin state. Fighting has increasingly shut down road travel to the jade mines, the largest region’s most important economic center. The war even reached into normally sleepy Myitkyina for the first time since 2013. In early February, artillery could be heard firing just over the ridge from the military-owned golf course near the city’s airport.
In Tanai, which has seen the heaviest fighting of the year, humanitarian relief efforts have been stymied by difficult conditions. The Kachin State Red Cross, which is considered an impartial actor, and works in both state- and KIA-controlled areas, has reported difficulties gaining access to deliver aid.
The bloody stalemate has led some in Kachin state to begin questioning why the KIA keeps fighting. “They cannot win. It is clear. Maybe they can stop from losing, but what do they gain by continuing to fight?” one Myitkyina resident said. “The people at the top get rich during the war, but regular people suffer. They should all just stop fighting.”
A Tatmadaw analyst in Yangon asserted that the fighting was merely jostling for stronger negotiating positions. “The Tatmadaw is trying to pressure the KIA to sign the NCA,” the analyst, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said. “Like anywhere else in the world, before two armies come sit at the table, they will fight to get more bargaining power. It is the same in Kachin.”
It is clear that the KIA has no interest in negotiating with Aung San Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy government. Along with the rest of the country, the Kachin militia held out hopes after the 2015 election that the Lady’s popular support among the people would translate to concrete progress in the national peace process. However, the KIA, like other ethnic opposition groups, has been disappointed by the slow and impenetrable process of the national dialogue. Many groups have complained of the convoluted nature of the peace process, in which multiple institutional bodies all have overlapping mandates and communication is skewed by the competing narratives of the three major stakeholders: the NLD civilian government, the Tatmadaw, and the ethnic opposition groups.
Myanmar’s civilians often complain about not having any idea what is happening within the peace process. Aung San Suu Kyi has repeatedly said that forging peace with the ethnic opposition groups is the most important policy goal of her government, but public opinion polls show that only one-fifth of the country actively follows the process. Many people believe that those inside the negotiations have more reliable access to information than the public, but the KIO representatives said otherwise. “If we miss one meeting, we have no idea what is going on anymore, and have to ask all around,” said one KIO officer.
Most people in Kachin are disillusioned by the opacity and slowness of the peace process.
“Aung San Suu Kyi had a lot of support, and we expected her to use the people power. But she hasn’t used this power to make changes to the constitution, not changes to the country’s rule of law,” said Dau Hka, the KIO spokesman. “If Aung San Suu Kyi is out, our position will be stronger.”
Instead, it is becoming increasingly clear that the KIA only sees one reliable negotiating partner: the Tatmadaw. While shells were flying in Myitkyina in February, there were reports that KIA officials were meeting in Yunnan province, across the Chinese border, with representatives from the Tatmadaw. The small summit was supposedly organized by the Chinese special representative to Myanmar, Sun Guoxiang.
The Tatmadaw analyst in Yangon confirmed that the KIA was actively negotiating with the Myanmar military, and that people should look forward to an end to the hostilities.
By the end of April, the rains came back to Myitkyina, but there was no more optimism about a lull in the fighting. Already, the rumors had begun to spread through the city: a massive military offensive being planned for the fall, when the dry season comes again. But for a few rainy months, the farmers can tend the fields in peace.
Daniel Combs is an author and researcher who spent the last year investigating Myanmar’s jade trade and the civil war in Kachin State. He is working on a book about the country.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: Kachin civilians flee Myanmar's 'forgotten war' - SE Asia - The Jakarta Post
Please Update your browser
Your browser is out of date, and may not be compatible with our website. A list of the most popular web browsers can be found below.Just click on the icons to get to the download page.

eng Moon grabbed her day-old baby and fled into the thick jungle, joining thousands of villagers escaping fighting between ethnic Kachin rebels and Myanmar's army, now reinforced by a unit notorious for its brutal "clearance" operations.
The insurgency in Myanmar's remote northeast has festered for six decades, but unlike the Rohingya crisis in the far west of the country, it has garnered few global headlines.
Fighting has surged dramatically this year, displacing 20,000 people since January, adding to the legions already uprooted by one of the world's longest-running civil wars.
Often called the "forgotten war", the Kachin conflict is a messy struggle over autonomy, ethnic identity, drugs, jade and other natural resources between the Kachin Independence Army (KIA) and the Myanmar state.
On April 11, with the sound of gunfire and fighter jets closing in, the villagers of Danai township sought refuge in their paddy fields.
Three days later shells started falling on their village and leaders took the decision for the 2,000 inhabitants to flee.
Seng Moon, 22, had given birth to her daughter only the day before.
"I was still bleeding (from the birth) and I felt like I was dying," she told AFP at a camp in Danai town. "It was so difficult and we had to cross a river."
For the group that included many young children, as well as the sick and elderly, progress through the arduous jungle terrain was slow.
But they were lucky to encounter local elephant handlers -- known as mahouts -- who helped ferry the most vulnerable across a chest-deep river to a displacement camp in the grounds of a small, wooden church.
Ethnic Kachin are mainly Christians in a nation that is overwhelmingly Buddhist.
33rd Light Infantry
International focus has been on the crisis in Rakhine state, from where some 700,000 Rohingya Muslims have been driven into Bangladesh by a relentless military campaign the UN says amounted to "ethnic cleansing".
An army unit accused of atrocities against the Rohingya -- the 33rd Light Infantry Division -- has now been redeployed to Kachin.
While the scale of violence in Kachin does not match operations against the Rohingya, experts say the deployment of the unit is an ominous sign for civilians.
"Yes, they are here," Kachin state minister for security and border affairs, Colonel Thura Myo Tin, told AFP without giving any further details about their mission.
Human Rights Watch accuses the unit of "multiple massacres" in northern Rakhine while Amnesty International has recorded "violations" against civilians on previous missions to Kachin.
"Kachin civilians... have little hope of divisions like these changing their behaviour," HRW Myanmar researcher Rich Weir said.
Surge in fighting
The insurgency in the northeast is one of two dozen ethnic minority rebellions that have plagued Myanmar since independence from British colonial rule in 1948.
Civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi said forging nationwide peace was her main priority after her government assumed power two years ago, ending decades of military domination. But the army still retains control over security issues.
The Kachin conflict reignited in 2011 after a 17-year ceasefire collapsed. Clashes have intensified since 2016, displacing more than 100,000 in Kachin and the north of neighbouring Shan state.
Independent analyst David Mathieson said the military appears to be taking advantage of the focus on the Rohingya to attack the KIA and bring it "to the peace negotiation table".
The military is also "targeting the KIA's sources of income" in amber and jade mining areas, he added.
Myanmar's army accuses the KIA of involvement in an attack at the weekend on security posts and a casino in Shan that left at least 19 dead.
The military says it is protecting the country's sovereignty and borders. But the KIA's political wing has a different view.
"They are invaders. We are defenders," said Dau Hka, a spokesman for the Kachin Independence Organisation (KIO).
"The fighting will stop immediately" once the military halts its offensive, he added.
Peace protest crackdown
The Kachin conflict is a powerful rallying cry in a country whose citizens suffered under decades of junta repression.
Youth groups have led peace protests that spread from Kachin's capital Myitkyina across the country.
In Myanmar's largest city Yangon, riot police on Saturday arrested several demonstrators at a large rally.
Three protest leaders in Kachin have also fallen foul of the law after an army officier filed a defamation case against them -- a charge that carries up to two years in jail.
For now church grounds around Myitkyina are providing sanctuary to those able to escape remote villages.
Sin Na Khawn Bu's family says she is over 100 years old and was carried some 30 kilometres (19 miles) by her grandson to safety.
"I have not been able to eat well for 12 days because I'm so afraid," the centenarian told AFP, stuttering and rocking back and forth as she spoke.
"We are suffering a lot. Please help us."
© 2016 - 2024 PT. Bina Media Tenggara
Share your experiences, suggestions, and any issues you've encountered on The Jakarta Post. We're here to listen.
Thank you for sharing your  thoughts. We appreciate your feedback.
Quickly share this news with your network—keep everyone informed with just a single click!
Customize your reading experience by adjusting the text size to small, medium, or large—find what’s most comfortable for you.
Share the best of The Jakarta Post with friends, family, or colleagues. As a subscriber, you can gift 3 to 5 articles each month that anyone can read—no subscription needed!