Title: Muslim Man Dons Burqa to Escape Lynching, Cops Baffled | New Age Islam News Bureau | New Age Islam | Islamic News and Views | Moderate Muslims & Islam

Age Islam News Bureau

5
Jul 2017



Olive
Residency Hotel, Bengaluru, turns away interfaith couple because ‘Hindus don’t
marry Muslims’ Image credit: Shafeek Subaida Hakkim/Facebook
-----

•Muslim
Man Dons Burqa to Escape Lynching, Cops Baffled


•Bengaluru Hotel Turned Us Away, Says Hindu-Muslim
Interfaith Couple


•Turkey
Bans the Teaching of Evolution in Public Schools
•Saudi
Arabia Has 'Clear Link' To UK Extremism, Report Says
•Daesh
Executes 200 Iraqis Summary-Style near Mosul: Report

India
•Muslim
Man Dons Burqa to Escape Lynching, Cops Baffled
•Bengaluru
Hotel Allegedly Denies Room to Interfaith Couple, Says Hindu and Muslim Can't
Stay Together
•Kashmir:
4 Hizbul militants killed in Pulwama
•ATS
questions Chennai man over Islamic State ‘links’
•As
PM Modi visits Israel, Chorus from Gaza: ‘He should have come to Palestine’
-------
Mideast
•Turkey
Bans the Teaching of Evolution in Public Schools
•UNESCO
Slams Israel’s ‘Illegal’ Acts in East Al-Quds as Occupying Power
•General
Soleimani: Yemen War Result of Lack of Common Sense among Saudi Leaders
•Iran
Stresses Increased Coordination with Russia to Block US Intervention in Syria
•Iranian
helicopters seen in Taliban dominated areas in Afghanistan
•Iran
raps Canada’s recognition of US courts rulings
•Iran
urges UN technical aid for Syria de-escalation zones
-------
Europe
•Saudi
Arabia Has 'Clear Link' To UK Extremism, Report Says
•London
Muslims ‘Scared To Leave Homes’ Amid Online Panic Over Acid Attacks
•Germany
must brace for more attacks by radicalized Muslims: officials
•Too
many foreigners in France and Islam not compatible, majority of French say
•US
terror attacks received five times more media coverage when perpetrator was
Muslim: Study
-------
Arab World
•Daesh
Executes 200 Iraqis Summary-Style near Mosul: Report
•Qatar
Shows Mettle, Offers Compromise As Gulf States Prepare Meeting
•Iraqi
General Denies US Partnership in Mosul Liberation
•Top
Aide of ISIL's Baghdadi Killed in Joint Operation of Russian, Syrian Forces
•UK
NGO: Civilian Death Toll in Raqqa War Much Higher than US Claims
•Several
Turkey-Backed Militants Killed in Clashes with Kurdish Forces in Northern Syria
•Remaining
Daesh terrorists ‘fight to death’ in Mosul’s Old City: Iraqi army
•US-backed
forces breach IS defences in heart of Syria's Raqa
•Saudi
soldier killed, three wounded in explosion
•Syrian
Army Makes Fresh Gains in Eastern Damascus, Inflicts Heavy Casualties on
Terrorists
•Volunteer
Forces: Using Infamous Blackwater Firm Threatens Iraq's National Security
•Syrian
Army Makes Fresh Gains in War on Terrorism in Homs Province
•Russia
may deploy military in Syrian buffer zones within weeks
•Qaradawi’s
daughter, husband sent to separate prisons pending investigation
-------
Africa
•Nigeria:
Communal clashes leave 150 dead
•Over
half of migrants uprooted from West and Central Africa are children: U.N.
•Nigeria:
Expose Anti-Islamic Tendencies of Newsmen, Tella Tells Muslim Journalists
•Trump
does have a plan for Africa and it doesn’t look good
•Liberia:
National Muslim Heritage Foundation Endorses Joe Boakai Candidacy
•Gambia:
U.S. Denies Visa to School Robotics Team
-------
North America
•US
Leaves Assad’s Fate in Russia’s Hands to Focus on Islamic State
•Canada
rewards terrorists; Israel punishes them
•McCain:
We are not on a course to success in Afghanistan
•Quebecers
demand separation of church and zoo after Parc Safari Muslim prayer video goes
viral
-------
Pakistan
•After
ISIS Killings In Pakistan, China Blames The Victims
•Pakistan
High Commission Seeks Release of Hindu Family Arrested In India
•McCain
calls for support of Pakistan to eliminate militancy in Afghanistan
•Pakistan
proposes joint border ops with Kabul
•Kamal
demands action against rulers producing ‘terrorists’
-------
South Asia
•18
Taliban Insurgents Surrender to Afghan Forces after Killing Their Commander
•Afghanistan
optimistic new US strategy will also focus on terrorists sanctuaries
•Blast
in Bangladesh garment factory kills 10
•4
IS militants killed in US air strike
•Bangladesh
urges Myanmar to repatriate Rohingya refugees
•Afghanistan
agrees with joint operations along the Durand Line monitored by US
-------
Southeast Asia
•Indonesia,
Malaysia Muslim Groups Call For Starbucks Boycott over LGBT Stance
•Singapore
repatriates two ‘radicalised’ maids to Indonesia: Home Affairs Minister
•UM
to host tribunal on atrocities against Rohingya
•Police
Investigate Islamic State Flag Incident in South Jakarta
Compiled
byNew Age Islam News Bureau
URL:https://www.newageislam.com/islamic-world-news/muslim-man-dons-burqa-escape/d/111788

-------

Muslim
man dons burqa to escape lynching, cops baffled
Jul
5, 2017
AGRA:
Paranoid over the recent lynching of Muslims, a 42-year-old assistant engineer
in Aligarh's Kasimpur power station was caught at the railway station on Sunday
afternoon wearing a burqa. Alerted by other travellers, GRP men observed his
suspicious movements for some time before they detained him. When questioned by
police and intelligence officials, Nazmul Hassan told them that he wanted to
conceal his identity as he was scared of being lynched for being a Muslim man.
Hassan
told police officials that he had to frequent Delhi to take care of an ailing
cousin and had accidentally pushed a man while alighting at the Aligarh railway
station last week. According to Hassan, the man insulted him and his religion
in full public view and threatened him openly, as others joined in, that they
would not allow him to live in the city. "I had read about Junaid's
killing in a train in Ballabhgarh a few days ago. I was scared for my life
after the threat, but couldn't avoid travelling. So I thought of wearing a
burqa," Hassan told cops.
Though
he was released by police after questioning, his act left senior police
officials wondering about the extent of insecurity among minorities.
Senior
superintendent of police Rajesh Pandey said they had verified Hassan's claims
and have so far found nothing amiss in them. He said, "When Hassan was
handed over to the GRP, he was crying and shaking and kept repeating that he is
a simple man who has never done anything wrong." Pandey said Hassan was
released after questioning and they are in touch with him.
Hassan
said as he had to go to Delhi on Sunday to visit his ailing cousin. He was
scared to travel alone but he could not find anyone to accompany him. Senior
sub-inspector (GRP), who is also the investigating officer in Hassan's case,
said, "We found nothing suspicious in his statement to police. Different
agencies verified that his act of wearing burqa was born out of his fear following
the incident that occurred with him at the railway station last week."
http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/city/agra/muslim-man-dons-burqa-to-escape-lynching-cops-baffled/articleshow/59449360.cms
-------



Bengaluru Hotel Turned Us Away, Says Hindu-Muslim
Interfaith Couple


Jul,
05 2017
It
seems some Indian hotels have forgotten the age-old principle of 'Atithi devo
bhava (guest is equivalent to God)'. Nearly two weeks after a woman was denied
a room in Hyderabad for being single, a hotel in Bengaluru has reportedly
denied a room to an interfaith couple.
Shafeek
Subaida Hakkim and Divya DV, a married couple from Kerela, were denied a room
in Olive Residency Hotel at Annipuram Main Road in Sudhama Nagar in Bengaluru.
According to the couple, the receptionist denied them a room after he saw their
ID cards, reported NewsX.
“He
noted the names in the register and then realised that I am a Muslim, while my
wife is Hindu. He asked us if we were married as we follow different religions.
When I confirmed that we were in fact married, he refused to give us a single
room saying that it is not acceptable for a Muslim and a Hindu to stay
together," The News Minute quoted Shafeek as saying.
Earlier,
Nupur Saraswat, an Indian-origin spoken word artist from Singapore, was denied
a room in Hotel Deccan Erragadda in Hyderabad because she was a "single
woman". The hotel had a policy of not allowing locals, unmarried couples
and single ladies.
Unhappy
with the bad experience, the NRI woman instantly took to social media,
describing her situation. After her post went viral, Goibibo, a travel portal
through which she had made her reservations, tendered an apology. In a
statement, Goibibo had assured her that they that they take such issues very
seriously and have delisted the hotel pending investigation.
In
an another incident, Tailin Lyngdoh, a woman from Meghalaya, was shunted out of
the Delhi Golf Club (DGC) for wearing a Jainsem, a traditional dress worn by
the indigenous Khasi women in Meghalaya.
http://www.firstpost.com/india/bengaluru-hotel-allegedly-denies-room-to-interfaith-couple-says-hindu-and-muslim-cant-stay-together-3777485.html
-------

Turkey
Bans the Teaching of Evolution in Public Schools
July
04, 2017
Turkey
has historically prided itself on being a secular state.
Amendments
to the constitution during the 1920s and 1930s separated religion and
government policy.
Since
that time, debates about the role of religion in public life have continued in
the Muslim-majority country.
Evolution
in Turkish schools
In
a recent decision, the government banned the teaching of evolution in high
school.
This
action means that Turkish students entering high school will no longer learn
about the theory of evolution. The theory comes from the work of Charles
Darwin, the famed British naturalist.
His
ideas are considered to be the basis for the scientific study of life on Earth.
The
government said its decision was not about teaching Islam. Instead, officials
said high school students "don't have the necessary scientific background
and information-based context” to understand the theory of evolution.
Alpaslan
Durmus is the head of the education ministry's curriculum board. Durmus said
members of the board thought the theory should be taught to higher-level
students.
"We
tried to leave out some of the controversial issues from our students'
agenda," Durmus added.
Critics
of the decision
Critics
of the decision say that Turkish children will not get the education they need.
Scholar
Alaattin Dincer told VOA "The Turkish education system is very weak
concerning the fundamental sciences. Both in domestic and international exams;
be it math, physics, chemistry and biology, our students have very low passing
grade percentages. It is actually terribly low."
Dincer
added that the next generation of Turkish students should learn about evolution
and Darwin. "If you raise them [students] without learning those subjects,
how can you argue that we are a scientifically enlightened country that can
produce the scientists of the future?" Dincer asked.
This
week, Turkey's main teachers' union, Egitim Sen, said it was taking the issue
to court.
Mehmet
Balik is the chairperson of Egitim Sen. He criticized the decision to ban the
teaching of evolution and a new policy that requires schools to have a prayer
room. These actions "destroy the principle of secularism and the
scientific principles of education," he said.
Other
critics say the government's ban on teaching evolution is part of a plan by
President Erdogan to push an Islamic identity onto Turkish society.
International
perspectives on the teaching of evolution
Similar
debates about the teaching of evolution have taken place in other countries,
including the United States.
In
the late 1990s, the state of Kansas famously banned the teaching of evolution
in public schools. The School Board reversed its decision in early 2001 amid
public criticism.
In
the mid-2000s, at least 16 U.S. states were considering changes to the teaching
of evolution in schools.
Religion
and science
Although
critics say religion and science are at odds, some Islamic theologians say
evolution and Islam can exist together quite easily.
Ihsan
Eliacik is a Muslim theologian. He told VOA, "If evolution is scientific
truth that exists in nature, nobody can stand against it…Besides, by my
religious faith, scientific truth means religious truth. The two are not
contradictory."
I'm
Jonathan Evans.
Kevin
Enochs reported on this story for VOA News. John Russell adapted the story with
additional materials for Learning English. Hai Do was the editor.
https://learningenglish.voanews.com/a/turkey-bans-teaching-of-evolution-in-public-schools/3926756.html
-------

Saudi
Arabia has 'clear link' to UK extremism, report says
4
July 2017
audi
Arabia is the chief foreign promoter of Islamist extremism in the UK, a new
report has claimed.
The
Henry Jackson Society said there was a "clear and growing link"
between Islamist organisations in receipt of overseas funds, hate preachers and
Jihadist groups promoting violence.
The
foreign affairs think tank called for a public inquiry into the role of Saudi
Arabia and other Gulf nations.
The
UK's Saudi Arabian embassy says the claims are "categorically false".
Ministers
are under pressure to publish a report on UK-based Islamist groups.
The
Home Office report into the existence and influence of Jihadist organisations,
commissioned by former Prime Minister David Cameron in 2015, has reportedly yet
to be completed amid questions as to whether it will ever be published.
Qatar
crisis: After the deadline, what next?
May
defends UK ties with Saudi Arabia
Reality
Check: Why does the Prevent strategy divide opinion?
Critics
have suggested it could make uncomfortable reading for the government, which
has close and longstanding diplomatic, security and economic links with the
Gulf, particularly Saudi Arabia.
Wednesday's
report says a number of Gulf nations, as well as Iran, are providing financial
support to mosques and Islamic educational institutions which have played host
to extremist preachers and been linked to the spread of extremist material.
At
the top of the list, the report claims, is Saudi Arabia. It alleges individuals
and foundations have been heavily involved in exporting what it calls "an
illiberal, bigoted Wahhabi ideology", quoting a number of examples.
In
a minority of cases, the report alleges institutions in the UK that receive
Saudi funding are run directly from Saudi Arabia, although in most instances
the money appears to "simply buy foreign donors' influence".
'Violent
extremism'
In
a statement, the Saudi embassy in London said any accusations that the kingdom
had radicalised "a small number of individuals are baseless and lack
credible evidence".
And
it pointed out that the country has itself been subject to numerous attacks by
al-Qaeda and so-called Islamic State.
It
added: "We do not and will not condone the actions or ideology of violent
extremism and we will not rest until these deviants and their organizations are
destroyed."
The
BBC's security correspondent, Frank Gardner, said the report's release comes at
a sensitive time with Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Bahrain and Egypt all accusing
Qatar of supporting extremism - a charge the report says is hypocritical.
Arab
foreign ministers are meeting in Cairo on Wednesday to discuss possible further
sanctions on Qatar, while the Qatari foreign minister will be making his own
country's case at a press conference in London.
'Worrying'
links
Endorsing
the report, Labour MP Dan Jarvis said it shed light on "very
worrying" links between Saudi Arabia and the funding of extremism and he
called for the government to release its report on foreign funding.
"In
the wake of the terrible and tragic terrorist attacks we have seen this year,
it is vital that we use every tool at our disposal to protect our
communities," he said.
"This
includes identifying the networks that promote and support extremism and
shutting down the financial networks that fund it."
He
said the proposed Commission for Countering Extremism, a new body intended to
expose examples of extremism in civil society, should make the foreign funding
of UK institutions a priority.
Prime
Minister Theresa May, who visited Saudi Arabia in April, has insisted the UK's
historic relationship with the desert kingdom is important for British security
and trade.
Labour
leader Jeremy Corbyn has called for the immediate suspension of UK arms exports
to Saudi Arabia because of its human rights record and involvement in military
action in Yemen.
http://www.bbc.com/news/uk-politics-40496778
-------

Daesh
executes 200 Iraqis summary-style near Mosul: Report
Jul
5, 2017
Daesh
is reported to have killed as many as 200 Iraqi civilians in a summary
execution spree as they attempted to flee the Takfiri terrorist group’s
remaining turf near the northern Iraqi city of Mosul.
Iraq’s
al-Sumariah news network cited a local source as saying that Daesh carried out
the executions on Tuesday as the civilians were trying to flee the city of Tal
Afar, located 63 kilometers west of Mosul, to government-controlled areas in Nineveh
Province.
Separately,
Commander of Iraqi Federal Police Ra’ed Shaker Judat said at least 60 Daesh
terrorists had died as Iraqi forces advanced through Mosul’s Old City, the last
district controlled by the group in the city.
He
said the Iraqi forces had also seized explosive belts, rockets, and rocket
launchers from the terrorists.
Judat
further said that Iraqi forces had also raided three residences used to make
bombs, discovering several booby-traps and explosive-laden vehicles, defusing
all the devices.
Daesh
named Mosul as its so-called headquarters in Iraq back in 2014, the year it
launched a terrorist campaign inside the Arab country.
Iraqi
forces have now pushed Daesh into a shrinking rectangle no more than 300 by 500
meters in area beside the Tigris River.
Also
on Tuesday, Iraq’s Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi congratulated Iraqi forces
fighters on “the big victory in Mosul.”
“Praise
be to God, we managed to liberate (Mosul) and proved the others were wrong, the
people of Mosul supported and stood with our security forces against
terrorism,” he said.
http://217.218.67.231/Detail/2017/07/05/527476/Iraq-Tal-Afar-Daesh-summary-executions
-------

India

Kashmir:
4 Hizbul militants killed in Pulwama
by
Mir Ehsan
July
5, 2017
FOUR
HIZBUL militants were killed in a two-day encounter at Behmoona village in
Pulwama district that ended on Tuesday morning, security officials said. Police
have recovered bodies of three of the militants. Two of them were identified as
Kifayaat Khanday of Behmoona village and Jahangir of the neighbouring Kellar
village.
Search
is on for the body of the fourth militant which is under the debris, police
said. Several villagers were injured when they tried to disrupt the operation,
the police said. Inspector General of Police Muneer Ahmad Khan said: “Four
militants have been killed. Today, we retrieved the body of the third militant,
while the fourth body is still under the debris. We have recovered three AK-47
rifles and one SLR rifle.”
The
Army said that there is a chance that the bodies of two more militants could be
under the debris. “We had information that five militants were hiding in the
village… three bodies have been retrieved and the search operation is on,” an
officer said.
Khan
said the militants were associated with the Hizbul Mujahideen. “Four jawans
were also injured,” he added. Based on a tip-off , the Army, police and CRPF
launched a joint operation on Monday in Behmoona. The Army’s elite para
commandos were also called in and three of them were injured in the gun fight.
Locals
said the Army used mortars and IED to counter the militants and four houses
were damaged in the operation. The police said efforts were on to ascertain the
identity of the two other militants who were killed on Tuesday.
Dozens
of villagers had tried to disrupt the operation when it was launched on Monday,
pelting the security personnel with stones. The police used pellets for crowd
control, leaving more than a dozen injured. Some of the injured were shifted to
the SMHS Hospital in Srinagar.
http://indianexpress.com/article/india/kashmir-4-hizbul-militants-killed-in-pulwama-4736037/
-------

ATS
questions Chennai man over Islamic State ‘links’
by
Mohammad Hamza Khan
July
5, 2017
The
Rajasthan Anti-Terrorism Squad on Tuesday “summoned” a 36-year-old suspect for
his alleged links to Islamic State (IS) and its sympathisers, particularly
suspected IS financier Mohammad Iqbal who was arrested from the Tamil
Nadu-Andhra Pradesh border on February 4.
“Haroon
Rasheed, a resident of Chennai, has joined us in investigations today. We had
summoned him and not arrested or detained him. He flew in from Chennai today
and is staying on his own. We are questioning him and his role is being
ascertained. He was summoned in connection with the arrests of Iqbal and
Ahmed,” Rajasthan ATS chief Umesh Mishra said.
The
ATS zeroed in on Rasheed following the arrests of Iqbal and Jameel Ahmed.
Iqbal, 32, allegedly had a smuggling network, mainly in South East Asia, and
used it to send money to IS. Ahmad, 41, originally from Rajasthan and an
assistant financial manager with a Dubai firm, had been allegedly funding the
group “through various channels” since 2014, according to the Rajasthan ATS.
Iqbal was arrested in February while Ahmed was arrested in November last year.
“Rasheed’s
name had come up in the interrogation notes. We had been monitoring him closely
for the past 6-7 days and following sufficient evidence we served him a legal
notice,” said Vikas Kumar, ATS Superintendent of Police. “There are some issues
on which he is to be questioned. The course of action depends on his
cooperation with the investigation.”
Full
report at:
http://indianexpress.com/article/india/ats-questions-chennai-man-over-islamic-state-links-4736041/
-------

As
PM Modi visits Israel, Chorus from Gaza: ‘He should have come to Palestine’
by
Shubhajit Roy
July
5, 2017
Inside
a windowless room near the Erez border crossing between Israel and the
Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip, 85 km from Jerusalem, Fathi Tobail is a
disappointed man. “He should have come to Palestine,” says the 53-year-old,
shaking his head. “We believe India has good cooperation with Palestine, and we
wanted him to come to Gaza as well,” says Tobail, wearing the traditional
keffiyeh.
Tobail,
who owns a multimedia firm, is referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who
arrived in Israel Tuesday for the first visit to the country by an Indian Prime
Minister. Unlike previous visits by three Indian leaders — foreign ministers
Jaswant Singh in 2000, S M Krishna in 2012 and Sushma Swaraj in 2016 — Modi’s
visit is limited to Israel, and does not include Palestine. Married to an
Indian, Tobail says he has stayed in Chandigarh and now produces short films
and manages websites in Gaza.
“India
can cooperate in the field of electricity. If he had visited Palestine, we
would have submitted a request to him about the scarcity of power in Gaza,” he
says, pointing to the fan that doesn’t work. On Tuesday morning, there was no
electricity, too. “Power cuts are very common in Gaza,” says Tobail.
The
one-hour, 20-minute ride to Erez is smooth, on a four-lane expressway, where
lush greenery on either side leads to the imposing, concrete crossing at Erez,
with a glass facade. On the Israeli side of the immigration facility, a lone
woman officer is playing “candy crush” on her cellphone. Two families wait in
the lobby, with a little girl chewing on a plastic teddy bear. Photography is
not allowed.
The
immigration officer takes a hard look at the passport before issuing a stern
reminder: “The gates close for foreigners by 3 pm.” Informed that the Israeli
foreign ministry had specified 3.30 pm, she corrects herself: “Until 3.30 pm.”
The
“other side” lies past the immigration checkpoints through a narrow labyrinth
of grey concrete, and a “tuk-tuk” ride through a tunnel-like path, caged with
wire and steel. In Gaza, an officer sits under a poster of Yasser Arafat on the
wall, and a map of Gaza Strip. Nearby, the Al Awda cafeteria advertises “free
WiFi”. The cafeteria also flaunts Bisci chocolate biscuits, date bars, Sirma
mineral water and Shuga wet wipes.
Tobail’s
office is another taxi ride away, past Palestinian immigration, controlled by
Hamas. At the office, journalist Suhada Hammad, 25, echoes the disappointment.
“We
expected that he will come to Palestine, and to Gaza. He should have come to
see the situation here, talk to us about our issues, lives. Unfortunately, this
time, it has not happened. Another time, we hope,” says Suhada, wearing a blue
dress and a head scarf with yellow-and-blue floral prints.
Then
there’s Ali Mohammad Abushbak, 25, who is keen on getting an admission to Jamia
Millia Islamia’s mass communications programme. “It’s very sad that Modi did
not come to Palestine. A lot of people believe the story of Israel, but what
about the Palestine story? We are feeling discriminated by this approach of the
Indian government,” says Ali.
Israeli
officials say that Hamas, which controls Gaza, is a terrorist organisation.
According to Mark Sofer, a senior official in Israel’s foreign ministry, there
is no difference between Lashkar-e-Toiba and Hamas.
Israel’s
concerns resonate in the security checks on the way back. Here, bags are
emptied completely — pens, keys, handkerchieves, headphones and open laptops
are placed on a large plastic tray, so that each item is visible. Then, there
are body scanners and more security checks.
Full
report at:
http://indianexpress.com/article/india/as-pm-modi-visits-israel-chorus-from-gaza-he-should-have-come-to-palestine-4736017/
-------

Mideast

UNESCO
slams Israel’s ‘illegal’ acts in East al-Quds as occupying power
Jul
5, 2017
The
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) has
passed a resolution, denouncing Israel’s “illegal” practices in East Jerusalem
al-Quds and describing the regime as an “occupying power.”
The
Jordanian-sponsored resolution was approved during a session of UNESCO’s
21-member World Heritage Committee in the southern Polish city of Krakow on
Tuesday. Ten countries voted for, three against and eight abstained.
The
resolution slammed “the failure of the Israeli occupying authorities to cease
the persistent excavations, tunneling, works, projects and other illegal
practices in East Jerusalem [al-Quds], particularly in and around the Old City
of Jerusalem, which are illegal under international law.”
It
further called Israel “the occupying power” and reaffirmed UN resolutions that
rejected the regime’s claims to East Jerusalem al-Quds.
Israel
occupied the West Bank and East Jerusalem al-Quds during the Six-Day War in
1967. It later annexed East Jerusalem al-Quds in a move not recognized by the
international community.
The
vote was originally scheduled to take place next week, but it was advanced,
according to reports.
Israeli
UN Ambassador Danny Danon reacted to UNESCO’s resolution and said, “Nothing is
more disgraceful than UNESCO declaring” Israel the occupier of the Western Wall
and Jerusalem al-Quds’ Old City.
Last
year, UNESCO adopted a similar resolution, titled Occupied Palestine and
sponsored by several Arab countries.
It “strongly
condemns the escalating Israeli aggression and illegal measures against… the
freedom of worship and Muslims’ access to their holy site al-Aqsa
Mosque/al-Haram al-Sharif.”
Enraged
by such anti-Israel measure, Tel Aviv has cut ties with UNESCO and reduced its
UN budget, putting the 2017 payments at $3.7 instead of the original $11
million.
Al-Khalil,
an endangered city
Meanwhile,
UNESCO is to vote Friday on the inclusion of the old city of al-Khalil
(Hebron), where the Ibrahimi Mosque is situated, on its List of World Heritage
in Danger.
Plaestine’s
Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities said the old city of al-Khalil urgently
needed protection from “assaults that harm the exceptional international value
of the place.”
US
Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley wrote to UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres
and UNESCO Director General Irina Bokova, claiming that the mosque “is in no
immediate threat. Such a designation risks undermining the seriousness such an
assessment by UNESCO should have.”
She
further expressed the hope that other countries would join the UN in opposing
the measure.
Palestine’s
Foreign Ministry hit back at Haley, accusing her of being “racist and
anti-Palestinian” and serving as an ambassador for Israel, rather than the US
at the UN.
It
also condemned “the crude intervention of the US ambassador in the work of
UNESCO and the attempt to influence the independence of the UN organization.”
http://217.218.67.231/Detail/2017/07/05/527478/Israel-Palestine-UNESCO
-------

General
Soleimani: Yemen War Result of Lack of Common Sense among Saudi Leaders
Jul
04, 2017
"If
a country possesses lots of crude oil but with no common sense and insanity
rules the country, horrible events will happen and crazy things like the war
against Yemen will be done," General Soleimani said, addressing a forum in
the Southeastern city of Kerman on Tuesday.
He
added now the ignorant Saudi leaders are not able to put out the fire that they
themselves have ignited in Yemen.
Saudi
Arabia has been striking Yemen since March 2015 to restore power to fugitive
president Mansour Hadi, a close ally of Riyadh. The Saudi-led aggression has so
far killed at least 14,100 Yemenis, including hundreds of women and children.
Meanwhile,
a cholera epidemic has killed over 1,500 people in Yemen since late April as,
according to the World Health Organization (WHO), the war-torn country is
facing the "world's worst cholera outbreak".
Despite
Riyadh's claims that it is bombing the positions of the Ansarullah fighters,
Saudi bombers are flattening residential areas and civilian infrastructures.
According
to several reports, the Saudi-led air campaign against Yemen has drove the
impoverished country towards humanitarian disaster.
Full
report at:
http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13960413000617
-------

Iran
Stresses Increased Coordination with Russia to Block US Intervention in Syria
Jul
04, 2017
"Increased
coordination between Iran and Russia to prevent the US illegal intervention in
Syria and block aggression against the country's territorial integrity and
national sovereignty is one of the unavoidable necessities in the path of
cooperation between Tehran and Moscow," Shamkhani said in a phone
conversation initiated by his Russian counterpart Nikolai Patrushev on Tuesday.
He
warned that the US adventurism in Syria can pave the ground for exacerbating
tensions in the region and strengthening the terrorist front.
"An
obvious trend is witnessed to boost the terrorists' morale and maintain their
controlled areas by the US through its attacks on the Syrian army positions
which is a violation of the UN Security Council resolutions and the UN
Charter," Shamkhani said.
In
relevant remarks on Sunday, Iranian deputy Foreign Minister Seyed Abbas Araqchi
warned Washington against taking actions in Syria without coordination with the
Damascus government.
"The
US should avoid acting arbitrarily against the international rules and
regulations in Syria," Araqchi told reporters.
The
Iranian deputy foreign minister underlined that Iran is acting in coordination
with the Syrian government.
Araqchi,
meantime, hailed the efforts by the Organization for the Prohibition of
Chemical Weapons (OPCW), and called for continuation of the international
body's approach towards complete annihilation of chemical weapons across the
world.
The
Iranian deputy foreign minister expressed concern over access of terrorist
groups to chemical weapons, adding that OPCW is in charge of preventing
terrorists’ access to such weapons.
Full
report at:
http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13960413000759
-------

Iranian
helicopters seen in Taliban dominated areas in Afghanistan
4
July 2017
According
to several media outlets, Afghan border police said that on Iranian helicopters
were seen on July 1 in Taliban-dominated Farah province.
Previously,
security sources in Herat province confirmed that Iran provided financial and
military assistance to the Taliban in the provinces of Herat and Farah.
Afghan
political analysts have said that the Iranian government sees the Taliban as a
“beneficial enemy that strengthens the country's interests in an attempt to
weaken American presence in Afghanistan”.
“They
have said that Iran's recent collaborations with the Taliban means ignoring the
government and people of Afghanistan. And Iran's close proximity to the Taliban
will force Afghanistan to get closer to the United States and NATO,” one
analyst said.
During
the recent weeks, many reports have emerged that accuse Iran of boosting its
engagement with the Taliban in the northern and eastern regions of Afghanistan.
Historically,
the Taliban had vowed and worked on cleansing northern Afghanistan from the
Shiite tribe of Hazaras.
Full
report at:
https://english.alarabiya.net/en/features/2017/07/04/Iranian-helicopters-seen-in-Taliban-dominated-areas-in-Afghanistan.html
-------

Iran
raps Canada’s recognition of US courts rulings
Jul
4, 2017
The
Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman has criticized a Canadian court’s
recognition of the US courts’ rulings against the Islamic Republic in absentia,
saying the US move runs counter to the international judicial norms.
“Principally,
the issuance of a ruling against a foreign country runs counter to the
principle of equality of states and is in violation of their immunity under
international law,” Bahram Qassemi said on Tuesday, adding, “The Islamic
Republic of Iran reserves the right to oppose and follow up on the ruling.”
The
Iranian spokesperson emphasized that irrespective of internal power divisions
in Canada, the country’s administration would be “directly liable for any possible
material and spiritual damage [caused] by various branches of the Canadian
government as a result of such measures, which are in contradiction to the
international law.”
A
Canadian court on Tuesday accused Iran of supporting terrorism, upholding a
previous ruling by a US court, which required the Islamic Republic to pay
around $1.7 billion in damages to “American victims of terrorism.”
Full
report at:
The
JVTA allows so-called victims of terrorism to sue foreign states for damages.
http://217.218.67.231/Detail/2017/07/04/527439/Iran-Canada-US-Bahram-Qassemi-court
-------

Iran
urges UN technical aid for Syria de-escalation zones
Jul
4, 2017
Iranian
Deputy Foreign Minister for Arab and African Affairs Hossein Jabari Ansari has
called for the United Nations’ technical aid for the establishment of
de-escalation zones in Syria.
Jabari
Ansari, who is in the Kazakh capital city, Astana, to attend a new round of
peace talks on the Syrian crisis, held talks with UN special envoy on Syria
Staffan de Mistura on Tuesday.
He
said the UN must assist the intra-Syrian talks for the national reconciliation
process to start.
Astana
hosts the fifth round of talks between the Syrian government and opposition,
with Iran, Russia, and Turkey as mediators.
In
the last round of Astana talks in May, Iran, Russia and Turkey agreed on the
creation of four de-escalation zones in Syria.
De
Mistura, for his part, said the UN supported joint efforts by Iran, Russia and
Turkey within the framework of the Astana talks on Syria and called on the
Islamic Republic to help the UN-brokered Syria peace talks in Geneva.
Six
rounds of the Syrian peace talks have been held in the Swiss city of Geneva
under the auspices of the United Nations as part of efforts to facilitate a
political resolution for the deadly conflict in the Arab country.
Jaberi
Ansari and De Mistura also discussed the intra-Syrian talks, the establishment
of a permanent ceasefire and peace, and an end to violence in the Arab country.
They
also stressed the importance of paying attention to the needs of the Syrian
people.
Also
on Tuesday, Jaberi Ansari held discussions with Russia's special envoy on
Syria, Alexander Lavrentiev, about the Astana peace talks and the latest
political developments in Syria, particularly in the four de-escalation zones.
At
Damascus’ request, Iran has been providing military advisory support to the
Syrian military in its counterterrorism operations.
Russia
has been also carrying out an aerial campaign in Syria in coordination with
Damascus since September 2015 to further boost the Syrian military’s
anti-terror fight.
Meanwhile,
the US-led coalition has been conducting airstrikes against what it claims to
be Daesh targets inside Syria since September 2014, but without any
authorization from the Damascus government or a United Nations mandate.
The
military alliance has repeatedly been accused of targeting and killing
civilians. It has also been largely incapable of fulfilling its declared aim of
destroying Daesh.
Full
report at:
http://217.218.67.231/Detail/2017/07/04/527409/Iran-Russia-UN-Syria-Astana-Hossein-Jabari-Ansari-Alexander-Lavrentiev-Staffan-de-Mistura
-------

Europe

London
Muslims ‘scared to leave homes’ amid online panic over acid attacks
5
July 2017
Rampant
reports of acid attacks targeting Muslims are being shared online across the
British capital this week, with accompanying warnings for “people of Asian
appearance” to be vigilant.
This
follows an acid attack in east London last week that left an aspiring model and
her cousin with life-changing injuries and is now being treated as a hate
crime.
But
so far, it has not been immediately made clear whether all the incidents
detailed on social media have been reported to police as hate crimes.
A
local imam was quoted by British press as saying that despite some acid attacks
being classed as robberies and targeting non-Muslims, there was still fear
among the Muslim community.
“Even
my own wife was saying to me yesterday that she didn’t want to leave the house
because she might face an acid attack.”
On
social media, meanwhile, warnings have included: “Please be careful, especially
if you’re brown. These attacks seem to be targeting south Asians or ‘Muslim
looking people’.”
On
Whatsapp, this message is circulating in London: “There are people posing as
delivery men going door to door and throwing ACID on Muslims. Please. Be.
Safe.”
According
to The Independent, one attack on a man of Asian origin who had a noxious
substance squirted at him and his car stolen was being treated as a robbery.
“There
were also social media reports of two attacks in East Ham on Friday – one
involving a woman being partially burned on her doorstep by someone pretending
to be a delivery man, and the other of a woman being targeted by moped-driving
acid attackers in the Plashet Grove area,” the newspaper reported.
“In
another attack cited on social media, outside Whipps Cross Hospital in
Leytonstone on 8 June, the victim, junior doctor Syed Nadeem, 44, said four
masked men on mopeds had rushed towards him shouting: ‘Give me your money or
I’ll cut your throat.’ Mr Nadeem was sprayed in the face with acid and suffered
burns to his face and arms,” The Independent added.
Nadeem
reportedly said that National Health Service staff had been sent a warning on
WhatsApp after Emergency doctors treated three other victims for acid burns in
one hour. He said: “We got a text message saying people had been knocking on
car windows and when you open it, they throw acid in.”
A
statement by the Muslim Council of Britain obtained by Al Arabiya has cited the
“shocking spate of hate crimes against Muslims in the past few weeks. In
particular, two Muslim cousins suffered an acid attack in east London, leaving
their faces disfigured for life.”
Harun
Khan, Secretary General of the Muslim Council of Britain said the attacks
underline “the importance to tackle anti-Muslim hate crime seriously.
“The
Muslim Council of Britain has been contacted several times about recent attacks
on Muslims, and I regret to say that there is a sense of fear amongst some
sections of our community, particularly amongst Muslim women.
“It
is imperative that not only is there political leadership on ensuring a
zero-tolerance policy on Islamophobia and all forms of hate crime – but also
that the rhetoric translates into action and the many recommendations in the
Hate Crime Action Plan are actually put into practice.”
https://english.alarabiya.net/en/features/2017/07/05/London-Muslims-scared-to-leave-homes-amid-online-panic-over-acid-attacks-.html
-------

Germany
must brace for more attacks by radicalized Muslims: officials
Jul
4, 2017
Germany
should brace for further attacks given growing numbers of potential Islamist
militants, top security officials warned on Tuesday, vowing to step up efforts
to prosecute, convict and deport suspects.
Germany
was hit by five Islamist attacks in 2016, including a December attack on a
Berlin Christmas market that killed 12 people, while an additional seven
attacks failed or were thwarted, Hans-Georg Maassen, president of Germany's BfV
domestic intelligence agency, told reporters.
"We
must expect further attacks by individuals or terror groups," Maassen
said, citing growing evidence and over 1,000 expressions of concern from the
general public about growing risks.
"Islamist
terrorism is the biggest challenge facing the BfV and we see it as one of the
biggest threats facing the internal security of Germany," he said.
The
agency's annual report for 2016 said there were 24,400 Islamists in Germany,
including around 9,700 Salafists, and the number of Salafists had increased to
10,100 this year. The total also includes some 10,000 members of the Turkish
Islamist Milliu Gorus movement, the report showed.
The
total number of suspected Islamists marks a drop from the year earlier, but the
report said that did not mean the threat had diminished.
"In
fact the opposite is the case," the report said, citing a shift toward
"a more violence-prone and terrorist spectrum ..."
The
report said hundreds of "jihadists" had entered the country among the
over one million migrants who had come into Germany over the past two years.
Altogether,
security officials were keeping tabs on some 680 potential Islamist threats,
most of whom were influenced by Salafist ideology, Interior Minister Thomas de
Maiziere said.
Full
report at:
https://www.reuters.com/article/us-germany-security-idUSKBN19P1MY
-------

Too
many foreigners in France and Islam not compatible, majority of French say
4
July 2017
Most
French people say there are too many foreigners in France, immigrants do not
make an effort to assimilate and Islam is incompatible with the French values.
France's
new president clearly has some healing to do when it comes to two longstanding
divisive issues in France.
Immigration
and the place of Islam in society, are still very much contentious questions
for the French, a new annual survey has revealed.
A
poll by the Ipsos institute for Le Monde newspaper has revealed that a majority
of 65 percent of French people say there are too many foreigners in France, a
figure that has remained elevated in recent years, with the figure as high as
70 percent in 2017.
Another
stat demonstrating a majority of French people are uncomfortable with
immigration was the 60 percent of people who agreed with the statement:
"Today I no longer feel at home like I did before".
On
top of that some 61 percent of French people share the belief that
"immigrants in France do not make an effort to integrate".
Some
46 percent of French people believe it's not difficult for an immigrant to
integrate.
Unsurprisingly
the percentages are far higher among those on the far right- 95 percent of National Front voters believe
there are too many foreigners in France compared to those on the left (46
percent of Socialists).
When
it came to the other ever divisive issue of the role of Islam, 60 percent of
the people questioned for the survey titled "French Fractures 2017",
believe the religion of Islam is incompatible with the values of the French
Republic".
In
a separate question some 78 percent of French people are of the view that Islam
"seeks to impose its way of life on others".
Regarding
radical Islam, 46% of the French polled said that "even if it is not its
main message, Islam still contains within it the seeds of violence and
intolerance".
That
reflects a jump of five percentage points on last year's survey.
France
has been at the receiving end of a string of Jihadist terror attacks in recent
years, including the November 2015 attack at the Bataclan which claimed 150
lives.
The
repeated terror attacks, which have exposed the deep insecurity around
“l'identité nationale”, have led to demands for foreigners to assimilate,
rather than just integrate into the French way of life and culture.
In
September 2016, The Local reported that French politicians were aggressively
demanding immigrants drop their own identities and assimilate into French
culture and way of life.
Rows
over the influence of Islam regularly flare up in France, whether its over the
wearing of the veil, school dinners for Muslim pupils or most notably the
wearing of burkinis on French beaches, an issue which made global headlines
last Summer when the swimwear was banned by around 30 French mayors last year.
France
has had a longstanding tradition of demanding immigrants assimilate, dating
back to the 19th century when it was used as a policy towards its Jewish
population and then towards colonized countries.
Full
report at:
https://www.thelocal.fr/20170704/sixty-five-percent-of-french-say-there-are-too-many-foreigners-in-france
-------

US
terror attacks received five times more media coverage when perpetrator was
Muslim: Study
July
4, 2017
A
study conducted by researchers at Georgia State University found that terror
attacks in the US between 2011-2015, when perpetrated by a Muslim, received
five times more media coverage as compared to terror attacks committed by
non-Muslim perpetrators.
“On
February 6, 2017, President Trump stated that media neglect to report some
terrorist attacks,” write Erin Kearns, Allison Betus and Anthony Lemieux who
conducted the study. “It turns out that President Trump was right: media do not
cover some terrorist attacks at all, while disproportionately covering others,”
the report adds. The underreported ones, however, turned out to be different
sort of attacks than what Trump had been implying, which is, radical Islamic
terror attacks.
The
analysis of news reports from that period showed that: “Regardless of other
factors, attacks perpetrated by Muslims receive a disproportionate amount of
media coverage. In the present data, Muslims perpetrated 12.4 per cent of the
attacks yet received 41.4 per cent of the news coverage.”
The
three researchers found that the Boston Marathon bombing of 2013, which was
carried about by two Muslim terrorists and took the lives of three, emerged as
a hyper salient event in this context. It accounted for a whopping, nearly 20
per cent of the media coverage on terrorism between 2011-2015. Compared to
that, a 2012 Sikh gurdwara massacre in the state of Wisconsin which left six
people dead and was carried out by Wade Michael Page, a Caucasian man, received
just 3.8 per cent coverage. Frazier Glenn Miller’s attack on a synagogue in
Kansas in 2013 which left three dead accounted for just 3.3 per cent.
Similarly, Dylan Roof’s attack on an African-American church in Charleston,
South Carolina in 2015 where nine people were murdered, received only 7.4 per
cent of news reports. What united the latter three attacks was: a caucasian
perpetrator and a target group which was both religious and a minority.
“Whether
the disproportionate coverage is a conscious decision on the part of
journalists or not, this stereotyping reinforces cultural narratives about what
and who should be feared,” the researchers write. The media narrative thus
erroneously suggested that such attacks were more prevalent and propagated a
hysteria that is unsubstantiated by facts.
Full
report at:
http://indianexpress.com/article/world/us-terror-attacks-received-five-times-more-media-coverage-when-perpetrator-was-muslim-study-4735166/
-------

Arab World

Qatar
shows mettle, offers compromise as Gulf states prepare meeting
Jul
05, 2017
Qatar
announced plans for a steep rise in Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) production
capacity on Tuesday that suggested it was ready for a protracted dispute with
Gulf neighbors, but Doha said it was doing all it could to reach agreement.
Saudi
Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Egypt and Bahrain were due to meet on
Wednesday to decide whether to continue sanctions they imposed on Qatar on
accusations it was aiding terrorism and courting regional rival Iran. Doha
denies the charges and has submitted to mediator Kuwait replies to 13 demands
that the gathering will consider.
"What
Qatar has given in goodwill and good initiative for a constructive solution,
based on dialogue, we believe should be sufficient (to show) we have carried
out our duties from our side," Qatari Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin
Abdulrahman al-Thani told a news conference in Doha.
"There
is a lot of progress that has been made on that front (countering terrorism
financing)... but of course there is always room for improvement," he
said, describing the sanctions as illegal steps under the pretext of fighting
terrorism.
The
three Gulf states and Egypt have severed diplomatic and transport ties with
Doha in a dispute that has raised concern across the Middle East and beyond.
Western states fear a lengthy dispute, besides threatening political
instability, could upset supply chains in a region vital for energy supplies.
German
Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel told the same Doha news conference he felt
Qatar had shown restraint in the row which began on June 5 when the Gulf states
severed diplomatic and transport ties.
"We
hope others will respond in a similar spirit.
Qatar
says it is ready to meet any "reasonable" demands.
But
the Gulf state, with a population of just over two million to Saudi Arabia's 31
million, may be reluctant to carry out conditions such as the closure of the
al-Jazeera television station and removal of a Turkish military base - matters
it considers impinge on Qatari sovereignty.
Qatar
mounted what appeared to be a show of strength on Tuesday, when the state-owned
Qatar Petroleum [QATPE.UL] announced plans to raise liquefied natural gas
capacity by 30 percent. Its immediate effect will be to worsen a glut on the
LNG market where Australia, the United States and Russia vie.
LNG
is natural gas liquified at low temperatures to reduce its volume, thus
allowing it to be transported by tanker where pipelines are not feasible.
Qatar
Petroleum chief executive Saad al-Kaabi said the firm would increase gas
production from its giant North Field, which it shares with Iran, by 20 percent
after new gas development.
In
April, Qatar lifted a self-imposed ban on development of the North Field, the
world's biggest natural gas field, and announced a new project to develop its
southern section, increasing output in five to seven years.
That
new project will raise Qatar's total LNG production capacity by 30 percent to
100 million tonnes from 77 million tonnes per year in five to seven years,
Kaabi said.
The
decision will have international ramifications.
With
such low production costs and LNG facilities closer to buyers in Europe and
Asia, the Qatari move means U.S. producers could struggle to sell their LNG
competitively and projects still needing finance could struggle to find
investors. So far only Cheniere (LNG.A) exports U.S. LNG, but there are project
proposals with a total capacity of some 150 million tonnes/year.
Energy
sales have driven Qatar's rapid rise as a regional player, with vast
infrastructure projects and widening diplomatic influence as well as a role in
the Syrian conflict that is viewed with suspicion by Gulf neighbors.
The
Saudi Ambassador to Sudan Ali Hassan Jaafar, speaking at a news conference,
said he hoped the Gulf crisis would end "in the coming hours" with
the Qatari response to demands.
"We
wish well for the people of Qatar and we hope that the rulers of Qatar return
to their senses," he said. "We want stability in the Gulf region and
in the Arab region. … If these demands are not fulfilled we will defend our
security and stability and there will be other measures."
IRANIAN
QUESTION
The
LNG glut has already driven down prices. Asian spot LNG prices LNG-AS have
fallen more than 40 percent this year to $5.50 per mmBtu and by 70 percent from
peaks in 2014.
So
far, the majority of LNG is supplied via long-term contracts between producers
and users which allow little flexibility and in many cases also prevent
importers from reselling cargoes. With supplies far outpacing demand, analysts
expect more and more LNG to be freely traded.
Many
producers have already started to offer contracts without resale or destination
restrictions.
Kaabi,
alluding to suggestions that the Gulf states may ask trading partners to choose
between them and Doha, said the company's operations would not be affected by
the crisis.
"Qatar
Petroleum will continue working...If some companies decide they don't want to
work with QP that's their choice. We will find other foreign companies to work
with," he said.
Analysts
said the move to boost production was partly to do with added competition in
the LNG market, mainly from Australia, the United States and Russia.
"It
is also to do with Iran now set to increase production on the South Pars field,
which means they can up production from their side of the field (North Field)
without destabilizing the geology of the field," said Oliver Sanderson,
gas analyst at Thomson Reuters.
Some
experts say that, while the Gulf States accuse Qatar of cooperating too closely
with Iran, their sanctions could push it to closer cooperation with Tehran on
gas production and exports from the shared field.
"Qatar
needs the support of Iran now more than any time before. I don't believe it
would be possible for Qatar to increase production without the cooperation with
Iran, if in the long term the (political) situation stayed same as now,"
said Reza Mostafavi Tabatabaei, president of London-based ENEXD, a firm
involved in oil and gas equipment in the Middle East.
"Also,
major (oil) companies may be asked to choose between working in Qatar or
Saudi/UAE and Egypt, otherwise there be sanctions against them. That’s why I
don’t think that developing this project by Qatar now will be as easy as
before, politically not financially," he added.
Qatar
Petroleum's Kaabi said there is no cooperation with Iran on any project in the
North Field, but the countries have a joint committee that meets yearly to
discuss development of the field.
While
QP owns a majority stake, energy firms including Total, Mitsui & Co
(8031.T) and ConocoPhillips (COP.N) also possess small stakeholdings. RasGas is
a 70/30 percent joint venture between QP and Exxon Mobil (XOM.N).
"Qatar
has one of the lowest LNG production costs in the world. It has followed an
astute policy of maximizing value from market prices around the world,"
said Ajay Singh, special advisor at Japan Petroleum Exploration Co and former
gas executive at Shell.
"For
Qatar, LNG is everything."
http://nation.com.pk/international/05-Jul-2017/qatar-shows-mettle-offers-compromise-as-gulf-states-prepare-meeting
-------

Iraqi
General Denies US Partnership in Mosul Liberation
Jul
04, 2017
"All
these victories were gained due to our brothers' efforts in Hashd al-Shaabi
(Iraqi volunteer forces) and other security forces in the army, the
anti-terrorism headquarters and the police," General Abdol Amir Rashid
Yarallah said on Tuesday.
"In
this battle, all plans for operations, implementing the plans and supervising
the operations were carried out by the Iraqis," he added.
Yarallah
also appreciated Iran for supporting the Hashd al-Shaabi forces.
In
relevant remarks on Saturday, Hashd al-Shaabi Spokesman Karim al-Nouri blasted
Washington for its support for the terrorist groups, and said the US played no role
in retaking Mosul from the ISIL.
"The
(US-led) international coalition has not been serious about fighting against
the ISIL because the terrorist group moves in line with the US national
security interests. Also, the international coalition doesn’t fight against the
ISIL and it even sometimes helps them," al-Nouri said.
Stressing
that Hashd al-Shaabi has liberated different Iraqi territories without reliance
on Americans' assistance, he said, "Washington wants to include itself in
the final victory over the ISIL, but I should stress that this victory was
gained by the Iraqis and the US has played no role in it (liberation of
Mosul)."
After
heavy and door-to-door battles for 12 days in Mosul, Iraqi forces captured on
Thursday the wrecked historic mosque of Mosul in which the ISIL terrorist group
proclaimed its self-styled 'caliphate' three years ago.
Full
report at:
http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13960413001157
-------

Top
Aide of ISIL's Baghdadi Killed in Joint Operation of Russian, Syrian Forces
Jul
04, 2017
Lavdrim
al-Mohajeri, the senior Albanian commander of ISIL nom de guerre Abu Abdullah
Knosovo'yee, was killed along with six of his guards in an airstrike by the
Russian warplanes in coordination with the Syrian Army's Tiger Forces.
The
hunted Albanian commander of ISIL was responsible for the massacre and
abduction of the people, and the main the mastermind of ISIL's terrorist
operation abroad.
Iraqi
media quoted Fadhel Abu Raqif, a security expert, as saying that al-Mohajeri
was killed in an air raid at Syria's border with Iraq.
Al-Mohajeri
that was on a 4-month-long trip to Albania and Kosovo came back to Syrian in
May.
The
source said that after ISIL lost a number of commanders in clashes with Iraqi
and Syrian forces in the last several months, al-Mahajeri was considered as the
right hand man of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi.
Meantime,
a local source in Nineveh province reported on Monday that hundreds of leaflets
and flyers speaking of the death of ISIL's ring Leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi
were distributed by unknown people in the Central part of the town of Tal Afar
in Northwestern Iraq.
"A
number of these leaflets have been distributed along the roads. Some similar
flyers have also been found on the walls in trade centers. The leaflets and
flyers carry normal logo and emblem of the ISIL. The literature used in them is
the same as the one always used by the ISIL, but the terrorist group has gone
on alert and launched a search operation to find those that have released and
distributed the papers," he said.
Full
report at:
http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13960413000777
-------

UK
NGO: Civilian Death Toll in Raqqa War Much Higher than US Claims
Jul
04, 2017
Airwars,
a UK-based group that monitors airstrikes and civilian casualties in Iraq,
Libya and Syria, reported it has tracked 119 alleged civilian casualty events
at Raqqa, claiming up to 770 deaths, between June 6-29.
The
United Nations Commissioner for Human Rights warned at least 173 civilians have
been killed by air and ground strikes in Raqqa since June 1, saying this is
“likely a conservative estimate and the real death toll may be much higher.”
In
June, the UN’s chair of the Independent International Commission of Inquiry on
Syria, Paulo Pinheiro, warned the UN Human Rights Council that the fight in
Raqqa shouldn’t be “at the expense of civilians,” saying it is “gravely
concerned with the mounting number of civilians who perish during airstrikes.”
Pinheiro
said the airstrikes had resulted in a “staggering loss of life.”
Media
activists reported on Monday that over 200 civilians were killed or wounded in
the US-led coalition airstrike or in the missile and mortar attacks of the
Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) in Raqqa province.
The
sources said that 52 civilians were killed and 150 more were wounded in the
coalition air raids and in SDF's missile and artillery attack in the
neighborhoods of Raqqa city.
In
the meantime, five civilians, including a woman and four children, were killed
in the warplanes' assault on Jameh al-Atiq region in Raqqa.
Also,
12 civilians, including several women, were killed in the US-led coalition
warplanes' attack in al-Dor'iyeh neighborhood in Raqqa city.
Full
report at:
http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13960413001142
-------

Several
Turkey-Backed Militants Killed in Clashes with Kurdish Forces in Northern Syria
Jul
04, 2017
The
Turkey-backed militants' mortar and artillery units shelled heavily the
villages and towns of al-Shahba, Tal Rifat and Sheikh Issa, causing the Kurdish
forces to launch retaliatory attacks on militants' positions in the town of
Mare'a.
The
Kurdish fighters also targeted a vehicle of the militants carrying Jeish
al-Thowar militants along the road connecting Azaz to Mare'a, killing 13
militants.
In
the meantime, artillery and mortar units of the Turkey-backed militant groups
started to shell the villages of Tal Madhiq, Um Hawsh and Harbel from their
positions in the village of Kaljabrin and the center of Azaz.
A
commander of the Free Syrian Army (FSA) affiliated to the Turkish army said
that the FSA and the Turkish Armed Forces might soon launch a joint operation
against the Kurdish military units in the Syrian city of Afrin soon.
The
commander of the Syrian opposition said that the operation will have several
stages.
"At
the first stage, we plan to capture the city of Tal Rifat as well as the local
airbase, and then we plan to begin with the siege of Afrin, which is under the
control of the Syrian Kurdish People’s Protection Units (YPG) forces. Our goal
is not to enter the territory of Afrin, but rather to clear the territories
located near the Turkish border from the YPG," the commander said.
"We
have been getting ready for the operation for 2 months; the last preparations
are now underway," he added.
Around
20,000 militants of the FSA and Turkish troops will participate in the new
military operation in the Northwestern Syrian Afrin region, which is under
control of the YPG.
"The
operation can start at any moment. The Turkish forces are stationed in Mare'a,
Azaz and in the North of Idlib. Only those FSA units which were previously
involved in the Euphrates Shield will take part in the upcoming operation. The
US-backed FSA militants won't participate in the fighting in the Afrin area. We
don't trust them, as they can pass information on to the Kurdish self-defense
units," the FSA commander said.
Nuri
Mehmud, an official representative of the YPG, said earlier that the group will
defend its territory if there is an attack on Afrin from Turkey.
A
well-informed local source in Northern Aleppo reported on Monday that thousands
of militants affiliated to the Turkish Army were to kick off an imminent
large-scale operation codenamed Seif al-Forat (the Euphrates Sword) in Afrin
region.
The
source reported that the FSA, backed up by the Turkish soldiers, were ready to
carry out a large-scale operation in Afrin region with over 20,000 fighters.
Full
report at:
http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13960413001484
-------

Remaining
Daesh terrorists ‘fight to death’ in Mosul’s Old City: Iraqi army
Jul
4, 2017
Daesh
Takfiri terrorists are engaged in a “fight to the death” in Mosul’s Old City as
advancing Iraqi forces have bottled up the group's remaining elements in a few
patches of the Old City, a military commander says.
Staff
Lieutenant General Abdulghani al-Assadi, a senior commander in the Iraq’s elite
Counter-Terrorism Service (CTS), announced the news on Tuesday, adding that
army troops were just 250 meters from the Tigris River after recapturing the
embattled city’s main hospital compound a day earlier.
He
further stated that terrorists were increasingly resorting to bomb attacks,
including through detonating their explosive vests, speculating that the battle
would get even more intense as the militants were pushed closer to the river, which
divides the city into the eastern and western parts.
The
Iraqi forces took control of eastern Mosul in January after 100 days of
fighting, and launched the battle in the west on February 19. The Old City, a
densely-populated warren of narrow alleyways, is situated in the western part
of the city and its full liberation is predicted to be achieved in coming days.
Iraq's
Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi told reporters on Tuesday that the months-long
battle to free Mosul had shown that people of Mosul rejected the militants.
"We
proved that the people of Mosul are with us and not with terrorism," Abadi
was quoted by Iraq’s state-run media as saying.
He
added that he had given instructions to rebuild and stabilize areas of the city
already freed from the militant group.
Meanwhile,
Iraq’s Rapid Response Division, and the elite Interior Ministry unit, called in
precision airstrikes to be carried out just 50 meters away from the government
troops. The two sides got so close to one another in some points that in one
occasion the terrorists even tossed a hand grenade at the soldiers.
A
commander from the division said that some 10,000 civilians remained trapped
with little food, water or medicine, in a shrinking rectangular area under the
control of a few hundred terrorists. Among the trapped people are civilians,
who have been brought from other areas to serve as human shields.
"The
presence of civilians has affected the troops' advance a lot. The directions
from the commander-in-chief of the armed forces [Prime Minister Haider
al-Abadi] are to advance slowly to preserve civilians' lives and this is what
we are doing," the officer said on Iraq’s state TV without being named.
He
added that the Iraqi forces' advance had also been slowed down by plenty of
improvised explosives planted by Daesh in narrow and maze-like alleys and
densely-constructed buildings.
Government
authorities are planning a week of jubilation across the country and Premier
Abadi is expected to visit Mosul to formally declare victory. The city, located
some 400 kilometers (250 miles) north of the capital, Baghdad, fell to Daesh in
June 2014.
The
full recapture of Mosul, Daesh’s de facto capital in the Arab country, would
mark the effective end of the terror group in Iraq.
Full
report at:
http://217.218.67.231/Detail/2017/07/04/527423/Iraq-Daesh-troops-Mosul-Old-City-Abadi
-------

US-backed
forces breach IS defences in heart of Syria's Raqa
Jul
05, 2017
Raqa
- US-backed forces have penetrated the heavily fortified heart of jihadist
bastion Raqa for the first time, in a key milestone in the war against the
Islamic State group in Syria.
Air
strikes by the US-led coalition battling IS punched two holes in the mediaeval
wall surrounding the Old City of Raqa, allowing fighters of the Syrian
Democratic Forces to breach the jihadists' defences, Washington and the SDF
said on Tuesday.
The
landmark advance in IS's notorious Syria bastion - the culmination of a
seven-month campaign - comes as the jihadists face an expected defeat within
days in Iraq's second city Mosul, the other pivot of the cross-border
"caliphate" they declared in 2014.
Coalition
officials said a few hundred diehard jihadists were making a desperate last
stand in just one square kilometre (less than half a square mile) of Mosul's
Old City.
The
SDF - an alliance of Kurdish and Arab forces that has spearheaded the
coalition's fightback against IS in Syria - said its fighters had thrust into
the Old City.
It
said the two breaches opened by coalition warplanes in the 2.5 kilometre (one
and a half mile) wall around the Old City had enabled its fighters to evade the
extensive defences the jihadists have put up over the past three years.
"Daesh
(IS) have used this archaeological wall to launch attacks, and planted bombs
and mines in its gates to hinder the advance of SDF forces," it said on
its official Twitter account.
"The
precise air strike allowed the opening of two small 25-metre (80-foot) gaps in
the wall, allowing the entry of SDF forces avoiding Daesh explosives."
Raqa
became infamous as the scene of some of the group's worst atrocities, including
public beheadings, and is thought to have been a hub for planning attacks
overseas.
The
US envoy to the coalition, Brett McGurk, said on Twitter that breaching the
wall of the Old City marked a "key milestone in campaign to liberate the
city."
US
Central Command, which oversees military operations across the Middle East,
said the coalition air strike had not only spared lives among the advancing SDF
fighters but also reduced civilian casualties and damage to Raqa's
architectural heritage.
"Conducting
targeted strikes on two small portions of the wall allowed coalition and
partner forces to breach the Old City at locations of their choosing," the
statement read.
This
prevented IS from using booby-traps, landmines and suicide car bombs, while it
also "protected SDF and civilian lives, and preserved the integrity of the
greatest portion of the wall," it said.
The
United Nations has raised concerns for tens of thousands of civilians trapped
in Raqa, where it says the jihadists are using many as human shields.
The
so-called Rafiqah Wall that surrounds the city's historic heart originally
dates back to the late 8th Century, when as capital of the Abbasid caliphate,
Raqa was briefly the centre of the Islamic world.
The
Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a Britain-based monitoring group with a
wide network of sources on the ground, said the SDF advance had been supported
by US special forces.
"This
is the most important progress for the SDF since the start of the assault on
June 6," Observatory chief Rami Abdel Rahman told AFP.
The
US-backed fighters already inflicted a major blow to the jihadists in Raqa on
Sunday, crossing the south back of the Euphrates River that flows through the
city to establish a bridgehead on the north bank.
The
coalition estimates that some 2,500 IS jihadists are defending Raqa.
That
is far more than the 200 or so diehard IS fighters, most of them foreign, that
Iraqi commanders believe are holed up in the Old City of Mosul.
Iraqi
forces were moving in on the last IS-controlled neighbourhoods of the Old City
from all sides on Tuesday, commanders said, adding that they expected to
announce victory in as few as two days.
"From
the early morning, we were able to gain an important foothold in these
neighbourhoods," Staff Brigadier General Haidar al-Obeidi, a commander in
the elite Counter-Terrorism Service, told AFP.
"In
the next two days, we will announce the complete liberation of the Old City,
and therefore... the city of Mosul."
Iraqi
forces have been closing in on Mosul's Old City for months, but its maze of
narrow alleyways combined with a large civilian population has made for an
extremely difficult fight.
Iraqi
forces are facing a rising number of suicide attacks, including some by female
bombers, in the final stages of the more than eight-month-long campaign,
commanders said.
But
coalition officials said the jihadists were now on their last legs in their two
most emblematic strongholds.
"#ISIS
terrorists down to less than one square kilometre in #Mosul and totally
surrounded in #Raqqa," tweeted US envoy McGurk.
http://nation.com.pk/international/05-Jul-2017/us-backed-forces-breach-is-defences-in-heart-of-syria-s-raqa
Saudi
Arabia allows Iran to set up temporary consolates for Hajj
Iran
will be allowed to set up temporary consulates in Saudi Arabia during the Hajj
pilgrimage despite the absence of diplomatic ties between the two rivals, said
Iran's foreign ministry on Tuesday.
“Some
officials from the foreign ministry's consular section will be deployed to
Jeddah, Makkah and Madina to provide consular services to Iranian pilgrims
during the Hajj,” spokesman Bahram Ghasemi was quoted as saying by the ISNA
news agency.
Iranians
were unable to attend the Hajj last year after talks on security and logistics
fell apart. But an agreement was reached earlier this year to allow Iranians to
take part in this September's Hajj.
Full
report at:
http://nation.com.pk/international/04-Jul-2017/saudi-arabia-allows-iran-to-set-up-temporary-consolates-for-hajj
-------

Saudi
soldier killed, three wounded in explosion
Jul
05, 2017
Al-Awamiya
- A Saudi soldier was killed and three were wounded when suspected militants
attacked their convoy in eastern Saudi Arabia, the interior ministry said on
Tuesday, the latest in a series of attacks in the troubled region. The town of
al-Awamiya, located in the oil-producing al-Qatif province, is a flashpoint
between the Sunni Muslim government and minority Shi'ites complaining of
discrimination. The soldier was killed by a rocket-propelled grenade in the old
part of the town known as al-Musawara and an investigation was underway, the
ministry's spokesman told state news agency SPA, but gave no further details.
http://nation.com.pk/international/05-Jul-2017/saudi-soldier-killed-three-wounded-in-explosion
-------

Syrian
Army Makes Fresh Gains in Eastern Damascus, Inflicts Heavy Casualties on
Terrorists
Jul
04, 2017
The
army men engaged in a tough battle with Al-Nusra Front (also known as Fatah
al-Sham Front or the Levant Liberation Board) in Jobar and Ein Terma regions,
while the army's artillery units opened heavy fire at terrorists' positions
behind the frontline. In the meantime, the Syrian Air Force carried out several
combat sorties over Al-Nusra's positions in Jobar and Ein Terma.
A
military source said the army units have won back several positions in their
anti-terrorism operation in Jobar and Ein Terma.
The
source pointed to the collapse of the terrorist front and said that 25 members
of Al-Nusra were killed in the clashes with the army.
An
operation room that coordinated the movements of terrorist groups was also
destroyed in the army attacks.
Relevant
reports said on Sunday that the army men stormed terrorists' positions in the
Northern neighborhoods of Ein Terma region and drove militants out of a number
of buildings, including meat-packing company that is one of the most important
regions after al-Sonbol petrol station and Zmelka Bridge crossroad.
In
the meantime, the army's artillery and missile units opened heavy fire at a
gathering center of terrorists near Hazarma region.
A
field source, meanwhile, reported that the Syrian army used different tactics,
including penetration into terrorist-held regions by armored vehicles, to carry
out surprise attacks and night- time operations against terrorist groups.
Full
report at:
http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13960413000857
-------

Volunteer
Forces: Using Infamous Blackwater Firm Threatens Iraq's National Security
Jul
04, 2017
"Blackwater
attempts to conceal its identity but we know the firm and its nature and the
company's presence in this vital and strategic place threatens Iraq's national
security," Spokesman of Iraq's Hezbollah Brigades Mohammad Mohi said on
Tuesday.
Warning
the Iraqi government against Blackwater's dark record of activities, he said
that the country's national security shouldn’t be endangered by those who don’t
attach any importance to Iraq's interests and merely act based on the US and
Israel's benefits.
Reports
said in May that Blackwater, an American security firm, had signed a contract
with Iraq to return to the country 7 years after repeated scandals by the US
security companies forced them out of the war-torn country.
The
highway from Baghdad to Amman, Jordan, cuts through the insurgent badlands of
the Western Iraqi desert, and these days any truck driver risks confrontation
with roving groups of terrorists.
As
part of an American attempt to secure influence in the Iraq after the fight
against the ISIL, the US government has helped broker a deal between Iraq and
Olive Group, a private security company, to establish and secure the country’s
first toll highway. Head of al-Anbar province's council Faleh al-Issawi said at
the time that the US firm will start its work on June 15.
The
deal would last for 25 years and is known as a concession agreement, meaning
the Iraqi government would put no cash upfront. The multimillion-dollar
investment by Olive Group, in theory, would be recouped by tolls.
In
2015, three former employees of the US private military contractor once known
as Blackwater were sentenced to 30 years in prison and a fourth received a life
sentence, closing a sordid chapter of the Iraq conflict relating to the 2007
Nisour Square massacre in Baghdad.
In
October 2014, Paul Slough, Evan Liberty and Dustin Heard were found guilty of
13 charges of voluntary manslaughter and 17 charges of attempted manslaughter,
while Nicholas Slatten, the team’s sniper who was the first to open fire, was
convicted on a separate charge of first-degree murder.
Slatten
was sentenced to life; Slough, Liberty and Heard got 30 years each.
“In
killing and maiming unarmed civilians, these defendants acted unreasonably and
without justification,” the US attorney’s office said in a statement. “In
combination, the sheer amount of unnecessary human loss and suffering
attributable to the defendants’ criminal conduct on September 16, 2007, is
staggering.”
Full
report at:
http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13960413000394
-------

Syrian
Army Makes Fresh Gains in War on Terrorism in Homs Province
Jul
04, 2017
The
army soldiers engaged in fierce clashes with terrorists in the Depth of Syria's
Badiyeh near the road that connects the town of Arak to al-Heil oilfield and
pushed the terrorists back from several hills overlooking North of the third
oil pump station up to Qarah al-Maska hill East of the ancient city of Palmyra
(Tadmur).
In
the meantime, the army men clashed fiercely with ISIL and captured several
heights and a hill overlooking Tal (hill) al-Ramamin West of al-Heil oilfield.
A
military source, meanwhile, said that ISIL suffered heavy casualties and its
military hardware sustained major damage in the attacks.
Relevant
reports said on Sunday that the army troops, the Lebanese Hezbollah fighters
and Russian soldiers launched a new wave of offensives in Southeastern Homs,
targeting ISIL's positions near the provincial border with Deir Ezzur.
According
to battlefield reports, pro-government forces, including the Syrian soldiers,
Hezbollah fighters and the Russian army men, started a new phase of large-scale
assault in the Humeimeh region, capturing most of the hilltops, while also
killing and wounding several Takfiri terrorists along the road to Deir Ezzur
province.
Also,
two huge army convoys brushed aside ISIL resistance in Eastern Homs and pushed
through several kilometers of desert to meet around the ISIL bastion of
Humeimeh.
The
units took two hills overlooking Humeimeh and forced ISIL to withdraw from the
region during the clashes.
Amidst
ongoing clashes between pro-government forces and the ISIL terrorist group in
areas to the East of Palmyra, footage showed that Russian troops embedded with
Syrian Army troops in the frontline in Eastern Homs.
Full
report at:
http://en.farsnews.com/newstext.aspx?nn=13960413000298
-------

Russia
may deploy military in Syrian buffer zones within weeks
4
July 2017
Russia
may deploy its military to police the borders of planned de-escalation zones in
Syria within two to three weeks after finalizing an agreement with Turkey and
Iran, Russian negotiator Alexander Lavrentyev said on Tuesday.
Moscow
hopes to sign the final documents with Ankara and Tehran on Wednesday, he told
reporters after a series of meetings in the Kazakh capital, Astana.
Russia
and Iran, which back President Bashar Assad’s government, and Turkey, which
supports some of the rebels, agreed in principle to create four “de-escalation
zones” in Syria in a previous round of talks in May, but put off a planned June
meeting where they were supposed to work out the details.
Since
the May agreement was announced, the rebel-held stronghold of Idlib province in
the northwest of Syria has been mostly calm.
But
fighting has continued on other frontlines in western Syria, including Eastern
Ghouta of Damascus and the southwestern city of Deraa, where government forces
and their allies are trying to crush remaining pockets of rebellion.
Lavrentyev
told reporters that Moscow and its partners were still discussing detailed maps
and other conditions related to the Idlib and southern zones, while the borders
of two other zones, in Homs province and near Damascus, had been agreed.
“Overall,
(the agreement) provides for the presence of Russian military police in the
buffer zones, but once again this matter has not been agreed yet,” he said.
Full
report at:
https://english.alarabiya.net/en/News/middle-east/2017/07/04/Russia-may-deploy-military-in-Syrian-buffer-zones-within-weeks.html
-------

Qaradawi’s
daughter, husband sent to separate prisons pending investigation
4
July 2017
Egyptian
prosecution finished interrogating Ula al-Qaradawi, daughter of Islamic
hardline cleric Yusuf al-Qaradawi, and her husband Hussam Khalaf, member of the
supreme council of al-Wasat Party (Center Party) and they were transferred to
separate prisons pending investigation.
According
to their lawyer, Ahmad Abu al-Ula, Ula was transferred to a women’s prison in
El Qanater where she will be in solitary confinement while her husband was
transferred to a high-security prison in Tora.
Ula
refused to answer the investigators’ questions unless her lawyer was present.
The prosecution addressed the charges made against her and presented some
documents it had found in her house and that reveal the details of her
connection to the Brotherhood and that she funds them, supports them and
incites them to protest, stir chaos and topple state institutions.
Ula
and Hussam were arrested earlier this week by Egyptian authorities to
investigate their involvement in funding terrorist groups and providing
financial support for the Muslim Brotherhood and its affiliates.
The
prosecution on Monday decided to hold them under custodial investigation for 15
days on charges of financing the Muslim Brotherhood and joining a terrorist
group, which aims to obstruct constitutional provision, defies the writ of the
government, violates citizens’ personal freedom and harms national unity and
peace.
Full
report at:
https://english.alarabiya.net/en/News/middle-east/2017/07/04/Qaradawi-s-daughter-husband-transferred-to-separate-prisons-pending-investigation.html
-------

Africa

Nigeria:
Communal clashes leave 150 dead
5th
Jul 2017
By
Rafiu Ajakaye
LAGOS,
Nigeria (AA): At least 150 people were killed and several thousand others
displaced in communal clashes last week in Nigeria’s oil-rich southern Cross
River state, an official of the state-run relief agency said Tuesday.
“Between
June 27 and June 29 the people of Wanikade and Wanihem communities both in the
Yala Local Government Area of the state were involved in a communal war,” News
Agency of Nigeria quoted John Inaku, chief of Cross River State Emergency
Management Agency (SEMA), as saying.
“As
a result of the bloody war, 14,000 people have been displaced, 1,233 houses
were destroyed, while over 150 persons have lost their lives,” he added.
Inaku
said over 4,000 of those displaced victims had taken refuge in the Oju local
government area of the neighboring Benue state in central Nigeria.
The
SEMA boss said the communal clash erupted as a result of a land dispute, adding
that it had created an upheaval which led to the fleeing of the inhabitants of
about 41 villages to neighbouring communities in Yala and Oju LGAs in Benue
State.
Speaking
to Anadolu Agency, state police spokeswoman Irene Itohan, confirmed the
clashes, which she said have been ongoing over the years.
She
could not confirm the death toll put forth by the relief agency, but added:
“Over a hundred houses were burnt and several persons were displaced but calm
has now returned to the communities.”
Cross
River, like a few other Nigerian states with multiple ethnic groups, is
notorious for intercommunal clashes often caused by disputes over land
ownership or sociopolitical rivalries.
In
mid-June, over 100 people were killed in similar clashes in the Mambilla
plateau area of the northeastern Taraba state.
http://muslimnews.co.uk/news/human-rights/nigeria-communal-clashes-leave-150-dead/
-------

Over
half of migrants uprooted from West and Central Africa are children: U.N.
July
5, 2017
More
than 7 million children in West and Central Africa are on the move because of
violence, poverty and climate change, accounting for over half of all migrants
in the region, the United Nations children’s agency said on Wednesday. Yet most
children seek refuge in other African nations, and only one in five attempt the
perilous journey to Europe, UNICEF said in a report.
Half
a million people have crossed the Mediterranean from Libya to Italy over the
past four years, mainly sub-Saharan Africans who pay smugglers to shepherd them
across the desert to Libya, and onward to Europe in unseaworthy dinghies. At
least 20,000 migrants are being detained in Libya, the main gateway for those
attempting to reach Europe by sea, according to the International Organization
for Migration.
“I
went to try to provide for my mother,” said Malik, a 16-year-old Gambian who
travelled to Libya in attempt to reach Italy. Malik said he was 15 when he made
the journey, but was kidnapped and held ransom by traffickers in Libya for
months.
“I
was beaten with sticks, with lead pipes and with a motorcycle chain. Every day
they beat me and demanded money,” he was cited as saying in the report. “I tell
boys about what I have seen. If I can stop one person from going then I will be
doing something good,” Malik said, who was released with the help of a fellow migrant.
Lack
of economic opportunities, wars and climate change have forced over 12 million
people in West and Central Africa to migrate, UNICEF said in its report.
Climate change is already a harsh reality in many parts of Africa, where rising
temperatures and increasingly erratic rainfall have disrupted food production,
fuelled widespread hunger, and forced farmers to abandon their land.
“Unless
the long-term planning of governments and civil society is equipped to
anticipate these climate shocks and subsequent migration, the unmitigated
impact of these forces will create detrimental outcomes for children across the
region,” the report said.
One
in five people in Central African Republic – about a million people – have been
displaced since conflict began in 2013 between mainly Muslim Seleka rebels and
Christian militias, the Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC) says.
In
2016 alone, more than 922,000 people were driven from their homes by conflict
within the Democratic Republic of Congo, compared with 824,000 in Syria,
according the Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre, which is part of NRC.
“Children in West and Central Africa are moving in greater numbers than ever
before, many in search of safety or a better life,” said UNICEF regional
director Marie-Pierre Poirier.
“Yet
the majority of these children are moving within Africa, not to Europe or
elsewhere. We must broaden the discussion on migration to encompass the
vulnerabilities of all children on the move and expand systems to protect them,
in all their intended destinations,” she said.
Full
report at:
http://indianexpress.com/article/world/over-half-of-migrants-uprooted-from-west-and-central-africa-are-children-u-n-4736125/
-------

Nigeria:
Expose Anti-Islamic Tendencies of Newsmen, Tella Tells Muslim Journalists
30
JUNE 2017
Veteran
journalist, former Managing Director of Monitor Newspapers., Alhaji Liadi Tella
has charged Muslim journalists to be courageous in the dissemination of Islamic
stories and expose the anti-Islamic tendencies of some reporters.
Alhaji
Tella also challenged wealthy Muslims to raise media houses in order to present
undiluted message of Islam, lamenting that more than 70 per cent of the media
houses in Nigeria are owned by non-Muslims.
Also,
the President of Nasrul-Lahi-l-Fatih Society, NASFAT, Engr Kamil Bolarinwa said
that his association is the face of Islam in Nigeria.
The
duo stated these while speaking with newsmen during a special Iftar/dinner with
the Press organised by NASFAT on the last day of Ramadan.
Bolarinwa
also chided the media for describing those who take laws into their hands
maiming and killing people as Islamist terrorists, querying why the same media
has refused to give similar description to deviants in other faith.
Guest
lecture at the occasion, Alh Liadi Tella praised the efforts of various leaders
and successive leaders in NASFAT for sustaining the dawah, adding that NASFAT
was really ordained by Allah.
"At
a time that Islam was witnessing a downturn, when our Muslim brethren were
being deceived by other religion, Nasfat came like a lightning to change the
situation," Tella said.
While
encouraging the media particularly Muslim journalists to be courageous in the
dissemination of Islamic stories, Alhaji Tella also challenged wealthy Muslims
to raise media houses to check the excesses of the anti-Islam media owners.
"The
journalists should not to be afraid, but take the footsteps of other great
journalists. You should be courageous to expose the anti-Islamic tendencies of
some reporters and media executives.
"This
days where non-Muslims are mainly the media owners and executives, you can only
expect a slanted and anti-Islam stories. That is why Islam is endangered. Why
can't we raise a newspaper? Where are the rich Muslims? Why are they not
investing in media? Only 30 per cent or less of the media are owned by Muslims.
Full
report at:
http://allafrica.com/stories/201706300171.html
-------

Trump
does have a plan for Africa and it doesn’t look good
5
July 2017
Since
assuming the US presidency, Donald Trump has looked to block Muslims and
refugees from entering the country; threatened Iran and North Korea and tried
to kill the planet by pulling out of the climate deal. The African continent
rarely features in his early morning Twitter tirades.
A
lot has been said over what is being described as “Trump’s indecision over
Africa” - he has yet to appoint a head of the African Affairs bureau in the
State Department; the only African leader he has received at the White House so
far has been Egyptian leader Abdel Fattah el-Sisi; and he is rarely on the
phone whispering sweet nothings to African leaders.
But
make no mistake, Trump’s plan for the continent is already in motion.
That
Muslim ban? Three out of the original seven countries were African. Now it is
three out of six. The talk about the US reducing funding to peacekeepers? Eight
out of 15 peacekeeping missions are on the continent. The proposed 2018 budget
that reduces foreign aid? If Congress passes the budget, health, nutrition and
security aid to the continent will be cut from $8billion (R106bn) to $5.2bn.
Trump
may not be pushing a fully formed African agenda just yet, but many of his
plans and policies are set to impact the continent. And it does not augur well.
Think
of Trump not as the president of the free world, but an old white man with
antiquated, parochial, racist views. He has no interest in democracy, human
rights or the rule of law when it comes to partnerships or international
diplomacy. Follow the money and you’ll likely find a thin cake of batter for a
foreign policy.
With
China making significant dents in American and European influence on the
continent, the Trump administration knows it cannot afford not to be involved.
But Trump wants to alter the terms of US engagement. This administration’s
priority in Africa is now primarily national security and fighting “terror”.
All the proposed development cuts are to offset a military budget, set to
increase by $54bn.
Unlike
George W Bush or Barack Obama, who traded influence for development and aid,
Trump will look to trade influence in return for “security”. Previous
presidents looked to use back channels to assert military goals on a continent
sensitive to neo-colonial or imperialist agendas, but Trump will have no such
qualms bullying and arming whoever is willing to pay his price.
The
US has long been concerned that parts of the continent, in particular the Sahel
and parts of central and East Africa could fall under the influence of
so-called Islamic terror groups. Watch now as the US exploits these concerns to
deepen military resolve on the continent with buy-in by many puppet,
undemocratic regimes.
Trump
will connect with leadership who fawn over him and shower him with gifts, and
will promptly alienate those who ask questions. His disdain for process,
penchant for nefarious and crass capitalism, and emphasis on securitisation
will gift some of our worst African leaders with an opportunity to create or
cement their own tyrannical legacies.
Trump’s
policies, undefined as they are at this point, follow a roadmap laid long
before. Since the launch of the US Africa Command (Africom) in 2008, US
military influence has quietly expanded across the continent, conducting a
shadow war in the Sahel. There are massive drone bases in Djibouti and Niger.
It is unlikely there were will be more troops on the ground, but it means a
larger military influence through logistics, trainers, special short term
operations and consultants.
In
May, Trump sent a small contingent of troops on an “advise and assist” mission
with the Somali National Army to fight the Somali group al-Shabaab. Meanwhile,
and predictably so, he pulled out the troops from Obo in the unfashionable
Central African Republic, where they were meant to find LRA leader Joseph Kony.
Violence has already broken out in this part of the country as armed groups
fill the vacuum left by the US troops.
The
move to cut aid and expand its military footprint on the continent will be
disastrous. Since 2003, Pepfar (the US President’s Emergency Plan for Aids
Relief) has committed more than $70bn towards HIV, TB and malaria, helping
almost 12million people. Many of the medicines are not comfort drugs: but
urgent and life-saving. But humanitarians, aid workers and African governments
have long known this dependency was a recipe for disaster. To blame Trump for
our own inaction is puerile.
Full
report at:
http://www.iol.co.za/news/opinion/trump-does-have-a-plan-for-africa-and-it-doesnt-look-good-10136829
-------

Liberia:
National Muslim Heritage Foundation Endorses Joe Boakai Candidacy
4
JULY 2017
By
Augustine T. Tweh
Monrovia
— With less than 100 days to the presidential and legislative elections of
October 2017, a group under the banner, National Muslim Heritage Foundation
(NAMHFO) on Sunday, July 2, 2017, endorsed the presidential bid of Ambassador
Joseph Boakai under the theme: "Preserving our Heritage".
Reading
the endorsement statement, the National Coordinator of NAMHFO, Mohamed Bility
said NAMHFO believes that Amb. Boakai would be truthful in the discharge of
justice to all Liberians, irrespective of tribes, culture or religious
affiliation, adding that his level of religious tolerance will keep Liberia
peaceful and stable.
"Having
carefully scrutinized all presidential aspirants using our selection criteria,
Amb. Joseph N. Boakai proved to be the best option for Liberia, simply because
of his outstanding moral character, public service, competence, and his astute
leadership ability to lead Liberia to sustainable growth and development,
" he said.
According
to Bility, NAMHFO decision to endorse Ambassador Boakai is also based on his
cultural sensitivity, something he said is in the best interest of the Muslims
community.
"During
our examination of aspirants, we developed the feeling that Vice President
Boakai values peace and unity more than all other aspirants," he noted.
He
assures Muslims that NAMHFO will be a torch bearer to champion the cause that
affects them as a community.
The
National Coordinator of NAMHFO upon presenting the endorsement statement
recommended that Reconciliation, Justice, equality, and peace is what NAMHFO
requests under his administration.
"Your
Excellency, as we have endorsed you today, rest assured that we will campaign
for you, vote for you and support your administration to the best of our
abilities; at the same time advocating and ensuring that our community is
treated justly. "
"We
also request that Reconciliation, Justice, equality, and peace is what we ask
for- nothing more or less," he noted.
Accepting
the endorsement statement, Amb. Joseph Nyuma Boakai thanked the NAMHFO for the
decision taken to endorse his presidential bid, adding that Liberia cannot be
built until Liberians embrace one another in a spirit of brotherhood.
"Thank
you for what you have done, thank you for putting Liberia first, thank you for
the decision you have made."
"This
country is most respected by people, the only people who do not know are
ourselves, but we are respected and to be respected more is to embrace one
another, we cannot build this country alone," he said.
He
said Liberia belongs to every Liberians and as such under his leadership, every
Liberians will be given the opportunity to benefit from the country's
resources.
"This
greed that people believe that they have a special entitlement, nobody has a
special entitlement. We all are Liberians and we are all entitled to the
resources of this country. We all should be given the opportunity to benefit
from them," he added.
Amb.
Boakai said he remains confident of religious tolerance, urging Muslims and
Christians to employ their faith to serve humanity.
"I
always remain confident in among other things, religious tolerance."
"We
all serve God the way we want to do, but there is nothing wrong when people
serving God the way they want to do."
"The
way we serve God is to demonstrate what you do with the God you serve and how
you take that to serve humanity," he averred.
The
Political leader of the Unity Party also asserted that under his administration
Liberia will serve all Liberians, stressing that his leadership will prioritize
a Liberia where Liberians will own the resources and develop their country.
"We
are all Liberians, no matter where we are, those people who are living in the
villages who have no schools, no clinics, we are under obligation to
them."
"We
want a Liberia where Liberians will own the resources and develop their
country, instead of giving Gold Mines to people. We want Liberians to buy
shares and own that gold mine, that's the kind of Liberia we want," he
acknowledged.
He
affirmed that road construction will be the major priority of his government,
declaring that the poverty Liberians are going through is due to the lack of
good roads.
"My
major priority is the construction of roads because without roads you cannot
develop a country, most of the poverty we are going through is because of the
lack of roads. Some people do not need a government job, they just need a road,
if you just open this country up you will see that more people will leave
Monrovia," he avowed.
Full
report at:
http://allafrica.com/stories/201707040776.html
-------

Gambia:
U.S. Denies Visa to School Robotics Team
3
JULY 2017
Five
teenage pupils from The Gambia who built a robot for a prestigious
international competition in the United States will not be able to accompany
their invention to the event after being denied a visa.
The
Gambian pupils become the second team of students refused entry to the US to
attend the FIRST Global robotics event in Washington, DC, on July 16-18. On
Saturday, it was reported that an all-girls team from Afghanistan were also
denied a visa to travel to the US to showcase their creation at the same
competition.
Moktar
Darboe, director of The Gambia's ministry of higher education, research,
science and technology, told Al Jazeera that the team, made up of high school
pupils aged 17-18, were "very disappointed".
"They
put in so much effort into building this, and now, after all the sacrifice and
energy they put in, they have been left disheartened," Darboe, who is also
the team's mentor, said on Monday.
The
robot, a ball sorting machine, will be shipped off in the next day or two, he
added.
The
Gambian American Association will represent the team at the event and the
students in The Gambia's capital, Banjul, will watch it over Skype.
The
FIRST Global Challenge is open to students aged 15 to 18 from across the globe.
According to FIRST, around 158 countries will be represented, including 40
African countries. Only the teams from Afghanistan and The Gambia have had
their visas rejected so far.
Darboe
said that the visa was denied shortly after their interview at the US embassy
in Banjul in April. They were not given any explanation.
"We
were only told that we did not qualify and that we could try again."
According
to Darboe, the students had to pay $170 each for the visa application.
"Their parents had to sacrifice a lot to pay this fee."
The
students continued building the robot despite being denied the visa, hoping the
decision would ultimately change.
They
were further buoyed by a visit of US Ambassador C Patricia Alsup to their project
site last month.
"She
gave us hope not to give up, and she said they would give us all their support
to help us go further," 17-year-old Khadijatou Gassam, a science student
and spokesperson for the team, said.
The
US embassy in Banjul told Al Jazeera that it did not comment on consular
affairs. Kevin Brosnahan, a spokesperson for the state department's Bureau of
Consular Affairs, said he was unable to discuss individual visa cases.
'Not
giving up'
Last
week, the US Supreme Court allowed the partial enforcement of President Donald
Trump's travel ban on residents, citizens and refugees from six Muslim-majority
countries - but both The Gambia and Afghanistan are not on the list.
In
March, at least 60 African citizens were denied visas for African Global
Economic and Development Summit in the US state of California. Organisers said
at the time they were not sure if the rejection was linked to Trump's
anti-immigrant policies or if talk of the travel ban was being used to "to
blatantly reject everyone".
Darboe
said building the robot was difficult. When parts arrived, customs officials
took their time in releasing them. "They asked us if were building
RoboCop," he said.
Fatoumata
Ceesay, the team's programmer, told Al Jazeera that she had come to terms with
the fact their creation will be run by other students in the US.
The
17-year-old said they had worked under trying conditions, day and night, and
with little guidance over the entire Muslim holy fasting month of Ramadan.
"And
we started building it after the [visa] rejection. We built it despite knowing
we weren't going," she said.
Full
report at:
http://allafrica.com/stories/201707040306.html
-------

North America

US
leaves Assad’s fate in Russia’s hands to focus on Islamic State
July
5, 2017
America
is willing to cede influence in Syria and may leave the fate of President
Bashar al-Assad in Russia’s hands, according to an account of a meeting between
the US Secretary of State and the UN Secretary-General.
Rex
Tillerson told UN chief Antonio Guterres last week that the US was willing to
“take a back seat” over Assad because its priority was defeating Islamic State,
Foreign Policy reported.
“What
happens to Assad is Russia’s issue, not the US government’s,” one of three
sources familiar with the meeting at the State Department in Washington last
week told the magazine.
Mr
Tillerson indicated US ­action in Syria would focus only on ISIS and tactical
strikes.
He
insisted that actions taken against Assad’s regime, such as the destruction of
a regime airfield after the government carried out a gas attack against
civilians in April were not a ­demand for the President to be ousted. When he
was campaigning for office, US President ­Donald Trump promised to shift
support away from backing anti-Assad forces to fighting terror and criticised
his predecessor for not doing enough.
However,
after the Assad regime’s chemical attack in April, which triggered the US
cruise missile strike on a Syrian government airbase, Mr Trump said: “My
attitude toward Syria and Assad has changed very much.”
Mr
Tillerson’s comments ­appear to represent a further shift in strategy. Asked
whether the remarks reflected the White House’s position, a spokesman said: “I
do not have an answer.”
A
State Department spokesman said: “We remain committed to the Geneva process and
support a credible political process that can resolve the question of Syria’s
future. Ultimately, this process, in our view, will lead to a resolution of
Assad’s status.”
Anthony
Cordesman, of the Centre for Strategic Internat­ional Studies, said: “There are
enough divisions in the White House that it’s not clear what represents the
position of anyone in particular.”
Before
Mr Tillerson’s meeting with Mr Guterres the White House warned the regime
against using chemical weapons.
It
suggested the government, which has fought a civil war since 2011, was
preparing a new chemical attack.
A
number of reversals on Syria policy have left observers confused about the
administration’s plans.
“People
are floating a lot of ideas, but in the real world this is a very volatile
place where you can’t predict what will happen in four months,” Mr Cordesman
said.
This
week Mr Trump faces perhaps the biggest test of his political abilities since
he became President in January, when he meets Russian President Vladimir Putin
at the G20 summit in Germany. The leaders are expected to discuss Syria. Moscow
has firmly supported Assad, and its military assistance has been vital in
helping swing the momentum of the war in his favour.
A
clear indication from Mr Trump that Russia can determine Assad’s fate could
help to foster warmer relations between Moscow and Washington.
White
House sources said Mr Trump was unlikely to bring up one of the biggest issues
between the two nations — Russian meddling in last year’s election.
http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/world/the-times/us-leaves-assads-fate-in-russias-hands-to-focus-on-islamic-state/news-story/491babb65211e2ecc4b3118a80f00010
-------

Canada
rewards terrorists; Israel punishes them
BY
TAREK FATAH
JULY
04, 2017
Two
news stories concerning terrorism should make Canadians realize that not only
are we being governed under the doctrine of ‘sock and awe’, but that our values
have turned upside down in a bizarro world, one of our own making.
First
to Israel where on Monday, the government revealed it has filed a
precedent-setting lawsuit against the family of a terrorist who drove a truck
into a group of military personnel killing four Israeli soldiers.
Attacker
Fadi al-Qunbar was shot dead shot and killed in January, and the matter would
have rested there. But this time Israel has made the landmark decision to sue
against any inheritance the terrorist left to his family. The lawsuit, which is
expected to be the first of many similar cases, demands a total of more than
$2.3 million.
Israel’s
Minister of the Interior Arye Dery told the Haaretz newspaper, “From now on,
anyone who plots, plans or considers carrying out a terrorist attack will know
that his family will pay a heavy price for his deed.”
Not
so in Canada.
On
the same day as the terrorist Fadi al-Qumbar was being penalized by Israel, in
Canada Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s government announced that convicted
terrorist Omar Khadr who in October 2010 had pleaded guilty to “murder in
violation of the law of war, attempted murder in violation of the law of war,
spying, conspiracy and providing material support for terrorism,” was to
receive a $10M ‘compensation’ for his troubles and an official apology from the
Government of Canada.
Mr.
Khadr, now 30, was 15 in July 2002 when he lived in an Afghan compound with a
group of bomb-building Islamic jihadis planting roadside explosives.
Afterwards, U.S. troops stormed the house and this is where a grenade thrown by
Khadr killed Sergeant Christopher Speer, a medic who was helmetless and dressed
in Afghan clothing.
It
is true that at the time Omar Khadr committed his act of terror and murder, he
was only 15 years old, but in the context of the war against civilization by
Islamic terrorists, be they from the Taliban, ISIS, Al-Shabab or Boko Haram,
the vast number of volunteers who have taken up arms and carried out war crimes
are in their teens.
For
bleeding-heart liberals whose guilt-ridden frame of mind cannot comprehend
beyond the storybook picture of the child soldiers hired by African war lords,
this may be a shock, but the ultimate hero of Muslims in the part of the world
Omar Khadr was photographed making IEDs, is the 8th century 17-year old Arab
invader of India called Muhammad Bin Qasim, and from Kabul to Karachi every
child jihadi wishes to emulate the rape and plunder of this Arab jihadi. We are
not dealing with the God’s Army in Uganda or the Liberian child soldiers of the
1990s.
The
Muslim boys who go to fight jihad do so not under any pressure, but for the
lure of entering Paradise and meeting the opposite gender for the first time.
This may sound bizarre to the non-Muslim, but trust me, this is not fiction nor
propaganda.
But
there may still be some poetic justice in the end.
Full
report at:
http://www.torontosun.com/2017/07/04/canada-rewards-terrorists-israel-punishes-them
-------

McCain:
We are not on a course to success in Afghanistan
Jul
5, 2017
Republican
Senator John McCain has censured the 16-year presence of US military in
Afghanistan, saying that Washington’s efforts to restore peace have failed and
the goal has been to not lose rather than to win.
McCain
made the remarks at a press briefing in the Afghan capital Kabul on Tuesday,
heading a delegation of bipartisan US senators visiting NATO-coalition headquarters
in the war-ravaged country.
“Each
of us may describe that concern in our own way but none of us would say that
we’re on a course to success here in Afghanistan,” he said. “That needs to
change and quickly.”
When
asked what winning in Afghanistan would look like, the US Republican senator
stopped short of demanding a military defeat of the Taliban militant group and
only settled for “an advantage on the battlefield.”
“Winning
is getting major areas of the country under control, and working towards some
kind of ceasefire with the Taliban,” McCain said. “They will not negotiate
unless they think they are losing.”
The
criticism was made following reports that said US Defense Secretary James
Mattis would present Trump with strategic options for Afghanistan by mid-July.
The
US president gave Mattis the authority to increase the number of American
troops in Afghanistan last month, with McCain complaining that the Trump
administration had yet to offer a new strategy different than that of his
predecessor Barack Obama.
Trump,
who has spoken against the Afghan war, has dubbed the 2001 invasion and
following occupation of Afghanistan as former President Barack "Obama's
war," but now the Trump administration is planning to deploy thousands of
more troops to the war-torn country, signaling a policy shift.
The
US and its allies invaded Afghanistan on October 7, 2001 as part of
Washington’s so-called war on terror.
There
are currently over 9,000 US troops in Afghanistan. Washington claims that the
massive military presence is only aimed at maintaining security across the
country and pushing back Taliban and Daesh (ISIL) militants until Afghan
military forces are ready to take over the responsibility.
Full
report at:
http://217.218.67.231/Detail/2017/07/05/527454/John-McCain-Afghanistan-US-military
-------

Quebecers
demand separation of church and zoo after Parc Safari Muslim prayer video goes
viral
Jul
04, 2017
A
video posted online of members of the Canadian Muslim Association praying on
the grounds of Parc Safari has sparked outrage from zoo visitors and people on
social media.
In
a Facebook video posted Sunday, a group of Muslims are seen observing one of
five daily calls to prayer while on the grounds of Parc Safari, located in
Hemmingford, Que., about 60 kilometres south of Montreal.
The
caption on the video stated, in French, "I find it inappropriate that at
Parc Safari on a Sunday afternoon we hear prayers on the speakers. Can you just
do this in your living room and not impose it on me please!"
By
Tuesday, it had been shared more than 1,300 times.
'Sorry
that freedom of religion offended'
A
spokesperson for Parc Safari, Véronique Ranger, said the Canadian Muslim
Association followed all the park's rules.
The
group brought its own speakers and was not using the park's sound system.
Ranger
notes that despite the group not soliciting other visitors, not making enough
noise to disrupt other guests or animals, and not blocking any paths, some
visitors were nonetheless offended.
"Parc
Safari is sorry that freedom of religion has offended some people," Ranger
stated.
She
added that since the video was posted, the park has fallen victim to racist
comments.
On
Parc Safari's Facebook page, people posted that they were disappointed with the
park's decision to allow prayer on its grounds.
"Prayer
sites are one thing and attractions are another," posted Luc Richard.
Another
post called for a boycott of the zoo.
"I
hope you go bankrupt pure and simple," wrote Patrice Lafond.
Full
report at:
http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/montreal/canadian-muslim-association-parc-safari-zoo-prayer-racism-1.4190262
-------

Pakistan

After
ISIS killings in Pakistan, China blames the victims
July
4, 2017
When
two young Chinese nationals were abducted in broad daylight and brutally killed
earlier in June in Pakistan, the Islamic State claimed responsibility.
The
two 20-somethings were first reported to be language teachers working in
Pakistan. But then The Global Times, a popular tabloid that’s known as the
Chinese Communist Party’s mouthpiece, People’s Daily, offered this explanation
for the murders: “They were involved in illegal preaching led by South Korean
missionaries”.
In
a tepid and bizarre response to the killings, China’s foreign ministry said
that it was investigating the incident and it urged “all Chinese nationals
travelling overseas to observe local laws and regulations [and] respect local
customs and practices”. It has yet to confirm the deaths.
Blaming
the victims
The
story must have been disappointing for ISIS in Pakistan, too. The group carried
out the terrorist attack and claimed full responsibility, only to find that
South Korean missionaries were the ones taking the heat for exerting undue
influence over young Chinese nationals in atheist China.
The
only mention that the Islamic extremists got from Beijing was this standard
rhetoric: “China firmly opposes all kinds of terrorism and extreme violence
against civilians, and supports Pakistan’s efforts to combat terrorism and
safeguard domestic security.”
The
government has been characteristically tight-lipped on all fronts of this case,
with no discussion or reports allowed on state-controlled media. Neither
criticism nor awkward details have yet entered the mainstream, though on Weibo,
China’s version of Twitter, outrage over Beijing’s victim-blaming and attempts
to change the subject quickly began percolating.
The
Chinese public still does not even know the names of the dead; in the official
narrative, they remain anonymous citizens who were abducted, their whereabouts
unknown.
English-speaking
readers are more in the know. On June 12, Reuters reported that the abducted
Chinese nationals were 24-year-old Lee Zing Yang and 26-year-old Meng Li Si.
These slightly errant facts were later corrected by the Hong Kong newspaper,
Ming Pao, which confirmed the names of the dead as as Li Xinheng (李欣恒)
and Meng Lisi (孟丽斯).
When
Ming Pao’s reporters visited the family of Li Xinheng, Li’s parents said they
were not allowed to speak to media.
iFeng.com,
a popular online news portal owned by Hong Kong-based Phoenix TV, was the first
in China to release photos of the two victims and circulate, on June 9, ISIS’
claims of responsibility.
This
video is no longer available on iFeng. Days after its posting, and perhaps
unrelated to it (but likely not), China’s press watchdog ordered the website to
shut down its streaming service, saying it carries “many politically-related
programs that do not conform with state rules and social commentary programs
that propagate negative remarks and opinions”.
Unstoppable
CPEC
Pakistan,
known as China’s “all-weather friend”, has echoed Beijing in identifying the
victims as illegal preachers, and defended itself by saying it “offered
security to the pairs but was rejected”.
China,
in turn, praised Pakistan for its “all-out efforts” to ensure the security of
Chinese nationals and institutions in Pakistan, and pledged the friendship and
that the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) would not be undermined.
The
CPEC is a flagship initiative for China’s ambitious economic and geopolitical
blueprint One Belt One Road, widely regarded as a game changer for Asia and
beyond.
The
US$54 billion CPEC, which includes massive infrastructure projects in
transportation, energy, and trade, would be the biggest independent foreign
investment Pakistan has ever received.
The
initiative aims to link China’s restive Muslim-majority region of Xinjiang with
the strategic Pakistani port of Gwadar, passing through the controversial
Kashmir area, which both Pakistan and India claim.
Since
it kicked off in 2015, Chinese nationals have been swarming into Pakistan, with
around 15,000 Chinese directly working on the projects and many others eyeing
related business opportunities.
In
theory, this makes the safety of Chinese nationals living and working overseas a
real concern for Beijing.
Zhao
Gancheng, a Chinese expert on Asia-Pacific studies, noted that as China’s
global presence and influence is growing, extremists may target Chinese
nationals “for ransom or for sensational media impact”.
‘Going
global comes with risks’
China’s
clear desire was to leave its ambitious project with Pakistan unscathed by this
international incident. But the economical and geopolitical bet taken by China
with Pakistan is a risky one.
The
World Economic Forum ranks extremism-plagued Pakistan as the world’s fourth
least safe country in the world, and this isn’t the first case of Chinese being
abducted or attacked.
Beyond
the terrorist threat presented by the Taliban, ISIS and other separatist
insurgencies, the CPEC project has faced fierce opposition within Pakistan.
Many commentators have expressed concern that the economic corridor is heavily
skewed in China’s favour.
Beijing
is particularly unrest-averse right now. It doesn’t want to be drawn into
direct engagement with overseas counter-terror efforts, nor does it want any
social upheaval at home in the lead-up to the 19th National Congress in
September 2017, when the Communist Party will pick its new leader.
From
this perspective, the victim-blaming, media censorship, together with the
comment from China’s Foreign Ministry are less surprising . “Going global comes
with risks,” was the explanation its spokeswoman Hua Chunying gave when asked
about the link between the murder and CPEC.
This
response suggests that the slain Chinese is the price China has to pay to
achieve its grand vision of rejiggering the world order. Should it be?
http://theconversation.com/after-isis-killings-in-pakistan-china-blames-the-victims-79787
-------

Pakistan
High Commission seeks release of Hindu family arrested in India
Naveed
Siddiqui
Jul
05, 2017
The
Pakistan High Commission in India has reached out to the Indian authorities for
the release of five Pakistani Hindu citizens after they were reportedly
arrested by police in Rajasthan.
The
Pakistani High Commission wrote a letter to the Indian foreign ministry seeking
consular access to the trapped family. However, upon contact, a high-ranking
official at the high commission noted that Indian foreign ministry has yet to
respond to its letter.
The
official also expressed hope that the family will be released and returned to
Pakistan very soon.
"We're
constantly trying, but the Indian government has so far refused to
cooperate," said the official.
According
to the Indian High Commission, the stranded family consists of three adults and
two children, all of whom belong to Tharparkar, Sindh. The members include
75-year-old Chando Bhel, his wife 70-year-old Dhai Bai Bhel, 60-year-old Khojo
Bhel, 10-year-old Nuresh Bhel and 12-year-old Dharmi Bai.
Full
report at:
https://www.dawn.com/news/1343199/pakistan-high-commission-seeks-release-of-hindu-family-arrested-in-india
-------

McCain
calls for support of Pakistan to eliminate militancy in Afghanistan
Jul
05, 2017
KABUL:
The United States is counting on Pakistan’s support to eliminate militancy, in
particular the Haqqani network, Senator John McCain said during a visit to the
Afghan capital on Tuesday.
“We
have made it very clear that we expect they (Pakistan) will cooperate with us,
particularly against the Haqqani network and against terrorist organisations,”
said McCain, chairman of the US Senate Armed Services Committee, in Kabul.
“If
they don’t change their behaviour, maybe we should change our behaviour towards
Pakistan as a nation,” he insisted.
The
senator’s statement came one day after he led a bipartisan Senate delegation to
Islamabad, where Pakistani officials said he had reaffirmed the country’s role
in regional stability.
The
senators’ visit to Islamabad and Kabul comes at a time when the US is gearing
up to send more troops to Afghanistan to support Afghan forces straining to
beat back the resurgent Taliban.
McCain
called for more than just troops, however, urging “a strategy to win” a war
that has dragged on for 16 years and which even US generals concede is at a
“stalemate”.
“The
strongest nation on Earth in this world should be able to win this conflict,”
he said, calling for diplomatic efforts alongside a military push.
The
US currently has 8,400 troops deployed under the Nato banner, and is thought to
be mulling sending up to 4,000 more.
Defence
Secretary James Mattis has stressed his new approach, due to be presented to
President Donald Trump later this month, will have a broader “regional”
emphasis, with no set timetable.
Trump
has remained remarkably taciturn on Afghanistan, but this month gave Mattis
authority to set troop numbers at whatever level he saw fit.
Nato,
whose Operation Resolute Support numbers some 13,500, including the Americans,
also promised last week to enhance its presence in Afghanistan.
Recent
Taliban gains have shaken confidence in Afghanistan’s future and talk of
sending Nato troops in has stoked fears the alliance could get sucked back into
an unwinnable war.
But
Mattis refused recently to “put timelines” on the conflict.
Full
report at:
https://www.dawn.com/news/1343353/mccain-calls-for-support-of-pakistan-to-eliminate-militancy-in-afghanistan
-------

Pakistan
proposes joint border ops with Kabul
by
Tahir Khan
Jul
05, 2017
ISLAMABAD:
A high-powered delegation of US senators led by led by Armed Services Committee
Chairman John McCain on Tuesday told Afghan President Ashraf Ghani that
Pakistan has agreed to ‘joint operations’ against terrorist groups in the
border region, a statement from Presidential Palace in Kabul said.
“The
Senators said that head of Pakistan’s armed forces General Qamar Javed Bajwa
has agreed to joint operations against terrorist groups in the border region.
They said that the US would provide monitoring and verification of these
operations,” the statement said.
The
delegation has reached Kabul after a two-day trip to Pakistan where the US
senators met Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and Chief of Army Staff General Qamar
Javed Bajwa and also travelled to South Waziristan to attend a briefing about
Pak-Afghan border security situation, including recent measures to improve
security through fencing and enhanced surveillance.
President
Ashraf Ghani said Afghanistan ‘agrees with the proposal’ of joint border
operations with Pakistan, monitored by the US.
The
statement issued by Pakistan Army after meeting with the visiting dignitaries
did not mention any proposal of joint operations with Kabul. “Pakistan has done
its best despite constraints and shall continue its efforts for peace and
stability,” ISPR quoted General Bajwa as having told US senators.
Kabul
had long been insisting on a third-party monitoring of operation against
terrorists and Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and President Ghani had agreed last
month to use the Quadrilateral Coordination Group mechanism as well as bilateral
channels to undertake specific actions against terror groups and to evolve,
through mutual consultations, a mechanism to monitor and verify such actions.
McCain
warned Pakistan that Washington was counting on its support to eliminate
militancy and in particular the Haqqani network, responsible for numerous
attacks on Afghan territory.
“We
made it very clear that we expect they (Pakistan) will cooperate with us,
particularly against the Haqqani network and against terrorist organisations,”
said McCain in Kabul.
“If
they don’t change their behaviour maybe we should change our behaviour towards
Pakistan as a nation,” he insisted.
President
Ghani told US senators, “It is not a war in Afghanistan but a war over
Afghanistan against transnational terrorist organizations. And there are
questions now as to whether the Taliban are a criminal organisation with a
political front rather than the other way round.”
He
said Afghanistan was no longer dependent on Pakistan for trade and transit as
they have recently signed several deals with northern neighbours to improve
road and rail links, besides a new air bridge to India and access to the sea
via Chabahar port in Iran.
The
senators said their visit reflects the US support for Afghanistan but
maintained they were ‘finding it increasingly difficult to explain to the US
taxpayers why US was still so heavily committed in Afghanistan’.
McCain
called for more than just troops, however, urging ‘a strategy to win’ the war
which has dragged on for nearly 16 years and which even US generals concede is
at a ‘stalemate’.
“The
strongest nation on earth in this world should be able to win this conflict,”
he said, calling for diplomatic efforts alongside a military push.
Meanwhile
Dr Abdullah’s office said that Senator McCain shared details of his talks with
Pakistani leaders who pledged cooperation with Afghanistan.
“Pakistan
should help Afghanistan in fight against terrorism,” a statement from
Abdullah’s office quoted Senator McCain as saying.
Senator
Lindsey Graham said Pakistan could be ‘punished’ if it did not change its
policies as the present situation was unacceptable, according to a
Pashto-language statement received here. He, however, said Pakistan would be
‘rewarded’ if it changes its policies.
Full
report at:
http://dailytimes.com.pk/pakistan/05-Jul-17/pakistan-proposes-joint-border-ops-with-kabul
-------

Kamal
demands action against rulers producing ‘terrorists’
July
04, 2017
KARACHI
- Pak Sarzameen Party (PSP) Chairman Syed Mustafa Kamal Monday once again
reiterated demand to announce amnesty for political workers of Karachi involved
in the crime on behest of a political group as similar given by the government
in tribal areas of Fata and Balochistan.
Kamal
stated that while addressing a press conference at Pakistan House. PSP leaders
including Anis Qaimkhani, Anis Advocate, Waseem Aftab, Hafizuddin, Mir Ateeq
Talpur were also present on the occasion.
Criticising
rulers, PSP chairman said that sovereigns were producing terrorists by carrying
out corruption and neglecting the issues of the people. The ongoing army
operation will not bring any fruitful results until action is taken against the
rulers those had established terrorists producing factories.
“I
appeal to Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General Qamar Bajwa to halt ongoing
operations as policies of political leadership will continue to produce
terrorists across country,” said Kamal.
He
said that the people of the country were living a very depressed life due to
the negligence of the rulers. The Sindh government not even interested in
affairs of people and had left the people in a miserable situation. The rulers
and bureaucrats were the real terrorists as they were responsible for the death
of the hundreds of people. All the corrupt rulers and bureaucrats would perform
their duties rightfully if the action is taken against few of them, he added.
He
said that PSP after witnessing the worse situation of Karachi came up with the
16 points demands and to address these demands party also staged the protest
demonstration but the rulers despite of resolving and accepting our demands
used force to suppress our voice.
Grilling
MQM founder Altaf Hussain, he said that during the last thirty years Altaf used
the workers for his personal gains.
The
party remained in the powers and even enjoyed the governorship but failed to
benefit the Mohajir Community. He said if Dr Farooq Sattar is not aware with
MQM founder links with Indian Spy agency RAW then he should ask Barrister
Farogh Naseem who attended many of such meetings.
Kamal
further asked the MQM-Pakistan Convener Dr Farooq Sattar to speak up the truth
and bring the facts in front of the people instead giving helping hand to
London based leadership.
Full
report at:
http://nation.com.pk/karachi/04-Jul-2017/kamal-demands-action-against-rulers-producing-terrorists
-------

South Asia

18
Taliban insurgents surrender to Afghan forces after killing their commander
Jul
04 2017
A
group of at least eighteen Taliban insurgents surrendered to the Afghan
security forces after killing their commander in southern Uruzgan province of
Afghanistan.
The
Ministry of Interior (MoI) said the incident involving the killing of the
Taliban commander by his own fighters has taken place during the recent days in
the vicinity of Dehrawood district.
A
statement by MoI said the Taliban insurgents were earlier conducting
anti-government insurgency activities in the vicinity of Dehrawood,
specifically in Tokhi village where the commander of the Taliban group was
killed.
In
the meantime, MoI said another group of eleven Taliban insurgents also joined
peace process in western Farah province of Afghanistan.
The
anti-government armed militant groups including the Taliban insurgents have not
commented regarding the report so far.
Uruzgan
is among the relatively volatile provinces in southern Afghanistan where the
Taliban insurgents and militants belonging to the other insurgent groups are
actively operating in its various districts.
This
is not the first time a report has emerged regarding the infighting among the
Taliban insurgents as numerous similar incidents have taken place in the past
in other provinces, specifically following the death of the group’s founder
Mullah Mohammad Omar.
http://www.khaama.com/18-taliban-insurgents-surrender-to-afghan-forces-after-killing-their-commander-03082
-------

Afghanistan
optimistic new US strategy will also focus on terrorists sanctuaries
Jul
04 2017
The
Afghan defense officials have expressed optimisms that the new US strategy
regarding Afghanistan will also focus on efforts to eliminate the sanctuaries
of the terrorist groups fighting in Afghanistan.
The
acting defense minister Gen. Tariq Shah Bahrami told reporters in Kabul that
the Afghan government expects that the new strategy will be announced in the
next one or two weeks.
Gen.
Bahrami further added that a clear stance against the terrorist safe havens
will help the fight against terrorism in Afghanistan besides bring pressures on
the State-sponsors of the terrorist groups.
The
US defense secretary James Mattis has said the new strategy of Washington about
Afghanistan will include ‘Regional Approach’ as he expects to present his
recommendations to President Donald Trump soon.
Speaking
to the US lawmakers in the House Armed Services Committee last month, Mattis
said the new U.S. strategy will take a “regional approach” rather than
addressing the country’s long-running war in isolation.
“We
are taking a regional approach to this…. We will take that forward to the
president for a decision very soon,” he said.
This
comes as the Afghan officials have long been insisting that the leadership
councils of the Taliban group and the notorious Haqqani terrorist network are
based in Peshawar, Quetta, and other parts of Pakistan from where they plan and
coordinate attacks in Afghanistan.
The
Afghan officials earlier said that the deadly explosion near the embassy of
Germany in Kabul was plotted by the Haqqani network in Pakistan, although the
leaders of the network and the Taliban have rejected their role in the
devastating attack that killed over one hundred and fifty people.
“Afghan
oriented militant groups, including the Taliban and Haqqani Network, retain
freedom of action inside Pakistani territory and benefit from support from
elements of the Pakistani Government,” Pentagon said in a report last month.
Full
report at:
http://www.khaama.com/afghanistan-optimistic-new-us-strategy-will-also-focus-on-terrorists-sanctuaries-03080
-------

Blast
in Bangladesh garment factory kills 10
Jul
05, 2017
DHAKA
- A boiler explosion at a Bangladeshi garment factory killed 10 people and
injured dozens, fire officials said on Tuesday, the latest accident to hit one
of the world’s biggest garment producers.
The
incident late on Monday happened during maintenance work at the factory owned
by Multifabs Limited, a Bangladeshi company on the outskirts of the capital,
Dhaka, company and fire brigade officials said. “Nine people were killed in the
blast and one died in hospital,” fire service official Palash Chandra Modak
said.
The
firm supplies knitted apparel to clients in Sweden, Denmark, Germany, Russia,
Spain, Netherlands and Britain, including to Littlewoods, one of Britain’s
oldest retail brands, according to its website.
Fashion
chain Lindex, which is part of Finnish retailer Stockmann, said the Bangladeshi
firm was one of its most important suppliers.
Multifabs
said the six-year-old boiler, procured from Germany, had just been serviced.
The blast happened as the factory was being readied to resume operations
following a 10-day shutdown for the Eid holiday marking the end of the Muslim
holy month of Ramadan.
“This
was an accident. Everything was fine,” Mahiuddin Faruqui, the company’s
chairman and managing director, told Reuters. “The boiler was running well.
After servicing when workers were trying to restart it, it went off.”
Bangladesh’s
garment-making industry, the biggest in the world after China’s, employs 4
million people and generates 80 percent of the country’s export earnings.
For
years, activists had criticised retailers for failing to improve working conditions
in supply chains characterised by long hours, low pay, poor safety standards
and a lack of union representation for workers.
But
Bangladesh came under close scrutiny after the collapse of the Rana Plaza
factory complex in 2013, which killed more than 1,100 people, and a fire at a
garment factory in 2012 that killed 112 workers.
It
sparked demands for greater safety and put the onus to act on foreign companies
sourcing clothing from Bangladesh.
Two
international coalitions were formed to help fund improvements to building and
fire safety at thousands of garment factories across Bangladesh.
One
of those, the Alliance for Bangladesh Worker Safety, said fire incidents in
Bangladeshi factories fell to 30 in 2015 from 250 in 2012. The alliance
represents most North American importers of readymade garments, including
Canadian Tire Corp, Gap Inc, Sears Holdings Corp, Target Corp and Wal-Mart
Stores.
Multifabs,
which started operating in 1992, generated exports of $70 million in 2016,
mostly from sales to Europe.
Its
major buyers were fashion chain Lindex, Aldi of Germany and Rexholm of Denmark,
Faruqui said.
Stockmann
Communications Manager Anna Bjarland confirmed that the factory supplied
garments to both Stockmann and Lindex.
Bjarland
said the company was investigating and was waiting for more information from
the Bangladeshi authorities and their local sales office.
Full
report at:
http://nation.com.pk/international/05-Jul-2017/blast-in-bangladesh-garment-factory-kills-10
-------

4
IS militants killed in US air strike
Jul
05, 2017
A
US drone strike killed four fighters of the militant Islamic State (IS) group,
including a senior commander, an Afghan official said.
Waheedullah
Kalimzai, the governor of the eastern Kunar province, said the strike on Monday
killed Hazrat Gul and three other fighters in a mountainous area controlled by
the militants.
He
said authorities learned of the deaths from intelligence reports.
An
IS affiliate drawn largely from disgruntled former Taliban fighters operates in
eastern Afghanistan, where it has clashed with Afghan forces as well as the
more established Taliban.
Full
report at:
http://nation.com.pk/international/04-Jul-2017/4-is-militants-killed-in-us-air-strike
-------

Bangladesh
urges Myanmar to repatriate Rohingya refugees
July
4th, 2017
Dhaka
–Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Tuesday urged leaders in neighbouring Myanmar
to repatriate tens of thousands of Rohingya Muslims entered in Bangladesh
facing persecution back to their homes.
Hasina
made the call when national security advisor of Myanmar U Thaung Tun called on
the Prime Minister at her office in Dhaka. She also hoped that Bangladesh and
Myanmar would engage in dialogue to resolve the Rohingya crisis.
“We
will solve the problem bilaterally,” she told Tun, who is now in Dhaka on a
three-day official visit to Bangladesh.
The
influx of Rohingya refugees began anew in October last year when Myanmar
military launched a so-called counterinsurgency drive in Rakhine state as the
religious minority group claimed that they were tortured at their homeland and
was forced to cross the border.
More
than 74,000 Rohingya Muslims arrived in Bangladesh at that time, according to
an UN estimate.
Bangladesh
has long been asking its neighbour to resolve the problem as the Muslim
minority group in the Buddhist-majority Burma started crossing the border in
the early 1990s as they were driven out of their homesteads.
Ihsanul
Karim, press secretary to the Prime Minister, told reporters after the
Tuesday’s meeting that Hasina said it was natural to have problems between two
neighbouring countries.
”But
we are able to resolve the problem through bilateral discussions,” she said
citing her efforts in the 1990s to end insurgency by the ethnic minority groups
in Chittagong Hill Tracts.
The
Prime Minister said about 30,000 registered Myanmar Rohingyas have been living
in Bangladesh since long time. But she estimated the actual number is more than
400,000.
Hasina
was concerned about the intensified sufferings by the Rohingya during the
monsoon season and said Bangladesh is ready to extend all cooperation for
repatriation of the Rohingyas.
Karim
said the prime minister drew attention of the Myanmar national security adviser
to the issue of drug smuggling particularly Yaba sedatives to Bangladesh from
Myanmar.
Tun,
in response, assured Hasina of all sort of cooperation for eradicating drug
smuggling.
The
prime minister reiterated her government’s zero tolerance policy against
terrorism saying Bangladesh would never allow any armed groups and insurgents
to use its land against any neighbouring country.
Tun
said that the current focus of his country was to restore internal peace side
by side expediting development.
He
said national verification system is going on to control the insurgency
problem. Yangon wanted peace and development both in Myanmar and Bangladesh as
his country is keen to maintain good relations with its neighbours, Thaung Tun
said, according to state-run Bangladesh Sangbad Sangstha news agency.
Full
report at:
http://newsnextbd.com/?p=4473
-------

Afghanistan
agrees with joint operations along the Durand Line monitored by US
Jul
05 2017
The
Afghan government has said it agrees with the proposal for the joint operations
with Pakistan along the Durand Line.
The
Office of the President, ARG Palace, said the operations will likely be
conducted on both sides of the line and will be monitored by the US.
President
Ghani informed regarding Afghanistan’s consent regarding the proposal during a
meeting with the delegation of the US senators led by John McCain.
According
to ARG Palace, President Ghani has told the members of the Senate Armed
Services Committee that the “US support to Afghanistan is not taken for
granted.”
The
statement by ARG Palace further added that Senators led by Senator John McCaine
visited Afghanistan to review progress and all agreed regional solution is
needed.
“Pres
Ashraf Ghani said Afghanistan agrees with proposal for joint border operations
with Pakistan, monitored by US,” ARG Palace added.
This
comes as the Afghan officials have long been insisting that the leadership
councils of the Taliban group and the notorious Haqqani terrorist network are
based in Peshawar, Quetta, and other parts of Pakistan from where they plan and
coordinate attacks in Afghanistan.
Pentagon
in a report also said last month that the “Afghan oriented militant groups,
including the Taliban and Haqqani Network, retain freedom of action inside
Pakistani territory and benefit from support from elements of the Pakistani
Government.”
Full
report at:
http://www.khaama.com/afghanistan-agrees-with-joint-operations-along-the-durand-line-monitored-by-us-03083
-------

Southeast Asia

Indonesia,
Malaysia Muslim groups call for Starbucks boycott over LGBT stance
04
Jul 2017
JAKARTA:
Muslims in Indonesia and Malaysia were urged to boycott Starbucks on Tuesday
(Jul 4) by major Islamic groups accusing the coffee chain of being pro-gay
rights, as concerns grow over rising religious conservatism in both nations.
Leaders
from Muhammadiyah, Indonesia's second biggest mass Muslim organisation, also
urged the government to revoke the company's business licence for its stance on
lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) issues.
"The
ideology, business and view that they support are against our ideology,"
Anwar Abbas, Muhammadiyah's head of economic affairs, told AFP.
Another
Muhammadiyah leader, Yunahar Ilyas, said the group was calling on "Muslims
to not drink in Starbucks so that the income is not used to strengthen LGBT
campaigns".
Starbucks
Indonesia did not immediately respond to AFP requests for comment.
The
firm is among a slew of US companies to have spoken up against discrimination
in the US, with representatives signing a letter to North Carolina's Republican
governor protesting legislation targeting transgender people last year.
Hardliners
and Islamic groups have led a growing backlash against Indonesia's LGBT
community over the past year, which activists believe was triggered by
widespread media coverage of a decision in the United States to legalise
same-sex marriage.
The
group Pribumi Perkasa Malaysia this week also called on the government to
"re-evaluate the trading licence given to companies that support same-sex
marriages and LGBT," spokesman Amini Amir Abdullah said in a statement.
The
Muslim leaders said concerns about Starbucks arose after reading Starbucks
chairman's comment when tackling a shareholder's complaint in 2013 that the
company were losing customers due to the firm's stance on LGBT.
At
the time, chairman Howard Schultzman, then the chief executive, responded by
asking the shareholder to sell the shares.
Homosexuality
has long been taboo in Malaysia, where 60 per cent of the population is Muslim,
and where sodomy is a crime punishable by up to 20 years in prison.
http://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/asiapacific/indonesia-malaysia-muslim-groups-call-for-starbucks-boycott-over-9003730
-------

Singapore
repatriates two ‘radicalised’ maids to Indonesia: Home Affairs Minister
July
5, 2017
Singapore
has repatriated two Indonesian maids who were “radicalised” by Islamists using
social media, bringing the total number of such cases to 9 since 2015, the
second minister for home affairs has said.Authorities in the city-state said last month they had detained the
first Singaporean for suspected Islamist radicalism as concern grows about the
spread of the Islamic State group in Southeast Asia.
The
government has reiterated over the past year that the small, wealthy island
nation is a target for Islamist groups and has urged the public to be alert.
Minister
Desmond Lee told parliament on Tuesday the two maids, aged 25 and 28, did not
have plans to carry out any violence in Singapore and were not known to have
influenced their friends in the country.
“Similar
to the earlier cases, both of them were ISIS supporters, radicalised through
social media,” Lee said after lawmakers asked for an update on the threat posed
by radicalised foreigners in Singapore.
Singapore
said late last year it had deported nearly 70 foreigners, including five maids,
for suspected radicalism over the previous two years.
Authorities
in neighbouring Indonesia, which has the world’s largest Muslim population,
said last year they had arrested six Indonesian suspects with links to Islamic
State who were plotting an attack on Singapore.
Full
report at:
http://indianexpress.com/article/world/singapore-repatriates-two-radicalised-maids-to-indonesia-home-affairs-minister-4736131/
-------

UM
to host tribunal on atrocities against Rohingya
Ho
Kit Yen
July
4, 2017
PETALING
JAYA: A tribunal that hopes to expose claims of crimes against the Rohingya and
other ethnic groups by the Myanmar government, will hold a hearing at the
Universiti Malaya in September.
Social
activist Dr Chandra Muzaffar, who is the organising committee chairman for the
Tribunal on the Rohingyas, Kachins and other ethnic minorities, said that the
tribunal wants to expose the alleged inhuman treatment and push to stop the
crimes.
“The
process will be similar to a hearing, with the Myanmar ethnic groups testifying
before a jury.
“From
there, the tribunal will make a conclusion based on oral testimonies on the
atrocities and present our findings to the United Nation’s Fact Finding Mission
that was tasked to send its’ official to Yangon,” he said in a press conference
today.
He
added that the Myanmar government, led by Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu
Kyi, had publicly rejected the UN’s team into the country.
Also
present at the press conference was Centre for Human Rights Research and
Advocacy (Centhra) chief executive Azril Mohd Amin and International Forum on
Buddhist-Muslim Relations’ (BMF) secretary KV Soon.
Chandra
said previously a similar tribunal was held in London, on March 6 and 7, which
concluded that the UN and Asean had to take swift actions against Myanmar to
stop the crimes against the minorities groups.
“The
Kuala Lumpur tribunal is a continuation of the London tribunal, with more
witnesses coming this time.
“We
hope to make findings and present it to the public and push the Asean
governments, including Myanmar, to stop the genocide,” he said.
Full
report at:
http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2017/07/04/um-to-host-tribunal-on-atrocities-against-rohingya/
-------

Police
Investigate Islamic State Flag Incident in South Jakarta
Jul
05, 2017
Jakarta.
The Jakarta Police said on Tuesday (04/07) they are investigating an incident
in which an Islamic State flag was hoisted on the gate of a police station in
South Jakarta.
The
100-centimeter high and 50-centimeter wide flag had a letter attached to it,
containing threats to police. It was spotted in the early hours of Tuesday.
Two
officers heard a motorcycle stopping in front of the gate and saw the driver
fleeing before they noticed the flag, Jakarta Police spokesman Sr. Comr. Argo
Yuwono said.
Full
report at:
http://jakartaglobe.id/news/police-investigate-islamic-state-flag-incident-south-jakarta/
-------
URL:https://www.newageislam.com/islamic-world-news/muslim-man-dons-burqa-escape/d/111788


New Age Islam,Islam Online,Islamic Website,African Muslim
News,Arab
World News,South
Asia News,Indian
Muslim News,World
Muslim News,Women in Islam,Islamic
Feminism,Arab Women,Women In Arab,Islamophobia in
America,Muslim Women in
West,Islam Women and
Feminism

Sultan Shahin, E-22, Indra Prastha Apts., 114, I. P. Extension, New Delhi – 110092
Follow us to stay in the loop on what's new with New Age Islam.

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-20 14:11Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-20 14:11Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: UN rights rapporteur back in Burma amid ‘escalating security situation’ - Myanmar | ReliefWeb
Myanmar
By Andrew D. Kaspar
Yanghee Lee arrived in Rangoon on Sunday for her sixth visit to Burma as UN special rapporteur on the human rights situation in the country.
Her latest visit comes amid more reports of arrests and killings in restive Arakan State, and a UN press release ahead of the trip quoted Lee as saying she was “especially concerned with the escalating security situation in many parts of the country which have grave consequences for human rights in Myanmar.”
On Monday, state media reported that security forces in northern Arakan State’s Buthidaung Township had killed two “armed terrorists” and detained two other men on Sunday after they were fired upon in Tinmay village.
One day earlier, 10 people were detained in Norokla village, part of Arakan State’s Maungdaw Township. Of the 10, eight were arrested on suspicion of links to a terrorist group, while one was suspected in a murder case and the other was residing in the village illegally, according to the state-runGlobal New Light of Myanmar, which also reported on the incident in Tinmay village.
Hundreds of Muslims in Arakan State have been rounded up since 9 October, when Islamic militants launched a deadly assault on border police posts in the state’s north. The government has not provided a tally on the total number of those killed in the counter-insurgency campaign that has followed the attacks, but human rights monitors believe the casualty count could also be in the hundreds.
Meanwhile, 38 civilians in Arakan State were murdered from October 2016 to 26 June, while an additional 22 went missing or were abducted, according to a 1 July statement from Burma’s national security adviser that appeared to tie those cases to the 9 October attackers’ militant network.
Lee is scheduled to visit Arakan State, as well as Shan State —where conflict is also ongoing— and the capital Naypyidaw.
The special rapporteur, who wasdenied access to two townships in Kachin Stateon her last trip to Burma, is facing similar limitations this month.
“While it is regrettable that the Government has already refused access to several locations I had sought to visit in Shan State, citing security concerns, I look forward to the good cooperation which the Government has always extended to my mandate,” she was quoted as saying in the 7 July press release issued by the UN office in Geneva, Switzerland.
Like her predecessor, Lee has had occasionally difficult relations with members of successive Burmese governments and the military in her role as special rapporteur, and her current visit comes with an added element of potential tension:On 30 June, a government spokesperson said immigration authorities would deny access to Burma to delegates of a UN fact-finding mission. Lee was one of the most prominent figures advocating for the mission, which has been tasked with probing allegations of human rights violations in the country, with a particular focus on northern Arakan State.
The UN Human Rights Councilapproved the establishment of the fact-finding missionin March, following months of reports of grave human rights violations allegedly perpetrated by Burmese security forces against Rohingya Muslims during their crackdown in search of the 9 October attackers. Burma’s government “disassociated” itself from the resolution creating the international probe, has consistently rejected those reports of human rights abuses and insists that a national commission set up in December to investigate alleged misconduct by security forces makes any outside intervention unnecessary.
Lee’s 12-day trip to Burma will conclude with a press conference in Rangoon on 21 July.
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: KSrelief Distributes Over 19,000 Food Baskets in Myanmar - Myanmar | ReliefWeb
Myanmar
The King Salman Center for Relief and Humanitarian Aid (KSrelief) competed the distributed more than 19,000 food baskets in the Rakhine Arakan in Myanmar. The aid is expected to benefit over 116,000 people.
Myanmar+ 3 more
Myanmar+ 1 more
Myanmar
Myanmar
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title:  Bangkok Post - Myanmar warns of 'imminent terrorist attack' in Shan State
PUBLISHED : 11 Jul 2017 at 00:34
WRITER:YE MON, Democratic Voice of Burma
Myanmar government forces have distributed leaflets in the Shan State city of Lashio, warning residents of an imminent attack by the Kachin Independence Army (KIA) and Ta'ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), with the army on "high alert".
A spokesperson for the KIA on Monday denied any such plans and accused theTatmadaw(Myanmar military) of "spreading lies". He called the warnings a "misinformation campaign" that was only a veiled threat against the local population.
Neither theKachin Independence Armynor the TNLA have signed the government-backednationwide ceasefire agreement. Both groups have been regularly engaged in armed clashes against the Myanmar army in northern Shan State and next-door Kachin State.
The leaflets, which were distributed by Myanmar soldiers to people in the street and at their homes, say that the Tatmadaw have received a tip-off that the Kachin and Ta'ang ethnic armed groups are planning a "terrorist attack" in Lashio Township. The leaflets warned that public markets, government buildings and Lashio railway station could all be targets for bombings.
According to the leaflets, the KIA has sent six men and four women to Lashio to carry out a bomb attack. It says that prior to this, 20 insurgents with expertise in bomb-making were sent into the town on a reconnaissance mission "to determine the best targets".
The propaganda pamphlets also contain graphic pictures reported to show dead victims of the ethnic armies, as well as scenes of torture.
Government forces' Tactical Operations Commander Col Kyaw Than Swe said that the pamphlets were intended as a public safety measure, and he called on all local residents in Lashio to assist in preventing acts of terror.
According to Lashio residents who spoke to DVB, the Myanmar army has beefed up security in the town, including patrols in armoured vehicles.
Lashio, about 200km northeast of Mandalay, has a population of around 130,000, made up mostly of Shan, Burman and Chinese residents.
A spokesperson for the Shan State police force, Pol Col Aung Myat Moe, said Monday that he would not accuse the KIA and TNLA directly, but believed that "ethnic armed groups" were planning an attack. He identified Pyi Htaung Su Main Road, which is the highway heading north from Lashio to Hsipaw and Muse, as a likely target.
Aung Myat Moe said that police were stationed at busy areas in Lashio Township to monitor "any suspicious people".
"I would think that bridges would be the targets for bombing attacks," he said. "However, we will not accuse any ethnic armed group by name. We do not want to accuse anyone without evidence."
In response, Col Naw Bu, the spokesperson for the KIA, told Democratic Voice of Burma by telephone Monday that the Kachin group did not participate in terrorism nor would it conduct an operation that would cause civilian casualties.
He accused the Tatmadaw of "spreading lies" with the intention of "damaging the dignity" of the KIA and TNLA among the public.
"The Burmese military are actually threatening the public," he continued. "We, the KIA, would never act like that. We only attack the Tatmadaw – never innocent people."
TheTNLAwere unavailable for comment on Monday.
By subscribing, you accept theterms and conditionsin ourprivacy policy.

Title:  Bangkok Post - Myanmar warns of 'imminent terrorist attack' in Shan State
PUBLISHED : 11 Jul 2017 at 00:34
WRITER:YE MON, Democratic Voice of Burma
Myanmar government forces have distributed leaflets in the Shan State city of Lashio, warning residents of an imminent attack by the Kachin Independence Army (KIA) and Ta'ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), with the army on "high alert".
A spokesperson for the KIA on Monday denied any such plans and accused theTatmadaw(Myanmar military) of "spreading lies". He called the warnings a "misinformation campaign" that was only a veiled threat against the local population.
Neither theKachin Independence Armynor the TNLA have signed the government-backednationwide ceasefire agreement. Both groups have been regularly engaged in armed clashes against the Myanmar army in northern Shan State and next-door Kachin State.
The leaflets, which were distributed by Myanmar soldiers to people in the street and at their homes, say that the Tatmadaw have received a tip-off that the Kachin and Ta'ang ethnic armed groups are planning a "terrorist attack" in Lashio Township. The leaflets warned that public markets, government buildings and Lashio railway station could all be targets for bombings.
According to the leaflets, the KIA has sent six men and four women to Lashio to carry out a bomb attack. It says that prior to this, 20 insurgents with expertise in bomb-making were sent into the town on a reconnaissance mission "to determine the best targets".
The propaganda pamphlets also contain graphic pictures reported to show dead victims of the ethnic armies, as well as scenes of torture.
Government forces' Tactical Operations Commander Col Kyaw Than Swe said that the pamphlets were intended as a public safety measure, and he called on all local residents in Lashio to assist in preventing acts of terror.
According to Lashio residents who spoke to DVB, the Myanmar army has beefed up security in the town, including patrols in armoured vehicles.
Lashio, about 200km northeast of Mandalay, has a population of around 130,000, made up mostly of Shan, Burman and Chinese residents.
A spokesperson for the Shan State police force, Pol Col Aung Myat Moe, said Monday that he would not accuse the KIA and TNLA directly, but believed that "ethnic armed groups" were planning an attack. He identified Pyi Htaung Su Main Road, which is the highway heading north from Lashio to Hsipaw and Muse, as a likely target.
Aung Myat Moe said that police were stationed at busy areas in Lashio Township to monitor "any suspicious people".
"I would think that bridges would be the targets for bombing attacks," he said. "However, we will not accuse any ethnic armed group by name. We do not want to accuse anyone without evidence."
In response, Col Naw Bu, the spokesperson for the KIA, told Democratic Voice of Burma by telephone Monday that the Kachin group did not participate in terrorism nor would it conduct an operation that would cause civilian casualties.
He accused the Tatmadaw of "spreading lies" with the intention of "damaging the dignity" of the KIA and TNLA among the public.
"The Burmese military are actually threatening the public," he continued. "We, the KIA, would never act like that. We only attack the Tatmadaw – never innocent people."
TheTNLAwere unavailable for comment on Monday.
By subscribing, you accept theterms and conditionsin ourprivacy policy.

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-20 14:12Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: ASEAN Parliamentarians Urge Myanmar To Release 3 Journalists - Eastern Mirror
Bangkok, July 19 (IANS):ASEAN Parliamentarians for Human Rights (APHR) on Wednesday urged the Myanmar authorities to release three journalists who were detained in June after visiting rebels in the conflict-ridden northeast.
Thein Zaw from The Irrawaddy news magazine, along with Aye Nay and Pyae Phone Aung from the Democratic Voice of Burma media house, were arrested on June 26 along with three guides in the northeastern state of Shan where they were reporting on the burning of illegal drugs organised by the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), Efe news reported.
The Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) is a rebel group fighting the army for greater autonomy and which has not yet signed a truce with the government.
“Myanmar’s authorities must immediately release and drop all charges against these dedicated journalists, who have been targeted on flimsy pretexts for simply doing their jobs,” said APHR President Charles Santiago in a statement.
The reporters, who will be tried on July 28, were presented before the judge in on Tuesday, charged under the colonial-era Unlawful Associations Act. The APHR called on Aung San Suu Kyi’s government to amend the archaic law.
In the statement, the organisation also expressed its “growing concerns about the state of freedom of the press and freedom of expression in Myanmar” since Suu Kyi’s democratic movement came to power after winning landslide elections in 2015, and pointed out that at least 71 people had been detained over defamation on social media charges.
In a recent report, human rights organisation Amnesty International accused the Myanmar Army of perpetrating abuses against the civilian population in Shan and Kachin States, including torture, extrajudicial executions, indiscriminate bombardment of villages and restrictions on humanitarian aid.
The report also accused the TNLA rebels of abuses against civilians, including forced recruitment and forced tax collection.
Sign up here to get the latest news, updates and special offers delivered directly to your inbox.


Title: ASEAN parliamentarians urge Myanmar to release 3 journalists | India.com
click this icon for latest updates

Published: July 19, 2017 2:31 PM IST
ByIANS Feeds
Bangkok, July 19 (IANS) ASEAN Parliamentarians for Human Rights (APHR) on Wednesday urged the Myanmar authorities to release three journalists who were detained in June after visiting rebels in the conflict-ridden northeast.
Thein Zaw from The Irrawaddy news magazine, along with Aye Nay and Pyae Phone Aung from the Democratic Voice of Burma media house, were arrested on June 26 along with three guides in the northeastern state of Shan where they were reporting on the burning of illegal drugs organised by the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), Efe news reported.The Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) is a rebel group fighting the army for greater autonomy and which has not yet signed a truce with the government.“Myanmar’s authorities must immediately release and drop all charges against these dedicated journalists, who have been targeted on flimsy pretexts for simply doing their jobs,” said APHR President Charles Santiago in a statement.The reporters, who will be tried on July 28, were presented before the judge in on Tuesday, charged under the colonial-era Unlawful Associations Act. The APHR called on Aung San Suu Kyi’s government to amend the archaic law.In the statement, the organisation also expressed its “growing concerns about the state of freedom of the press and freedom of expression in Myanmar” since Suu Kyi’s democratic movement came to power after winning landslide elections in 2015, and pointed out that at least 71 people had been detained over defamation on social media charges.In a recent report, human rights organisation Amnesty International accused the Myanmar Army of perpetrating abuses against the civilian population in Shan and Kachin States, including torture, extrajudicial executions, indiscriminate bombardment of villages and restrictions on humanitarian aid.The report also accused the TNLA rebels of abuses against civilians, including forced recruitment and forced tax collection.This is published unedited from the IANS feed.Also Read:Six Foreign Nationals Found Dead In Bangkok Luxury Hotel, Murder Suspected; Thai PM Orders ProbeMyanmar Crisis Spurs Concerns Over Rising Criminal Syndicates, Human Trafficking, Says Indian Envoy Nagesh SinghUS: Japanese Yakuza Leader Charged For Trafficking Nuclear Materials From MyanmarFor breaking news and live news updates, like us onFacebookor follow us onTwitterandInstagram. Read more on LatestNewsonIndia.com.TopicsAPHRAung San Suu Kyi's governmentBangkokCharles SantiagoIrrawaddyMyanmarshanThe IrrawaddyMore Stories


The Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) is a rebel group fighting the army for greater autonomy and which has not yet signed a truce with the government.
“Myanmar’s authorities must immediately release and drop all charges against these dedicated journalists, who have been targeted on flimsy pretexts for simply doing their jobs,” said APHR President Charles Santiago in a statement.

The reporters, who will be tried on July 28, were presented before the judge in on Tuesday, charged under the colonial-era Unlawful Associations Act. The APHR called on Aung San Suu Kyi’s government to amend the archaic law.
In the statement, the organisation also expressed its “growing concerns about the state of freedom of the press and freedom of expression in Myanmar” since Suu Kyi’s democratic movement came to power after winning landslide elections in 2015, and pointed out that at least 71 people had been detained over defamation on social media charges.
In a recent report, human rights organisation Amnesty International accused the Myanmar Army of perpetrating abuses against the civilian population in Shan and Kachin States, including torture, extrajudicial executions, indiscriminate bombardment of villages and restrictions on humanitarian aid.
The report also accused the TNLA rebels of abuses against civilians, including forced recruitment and forced tax collection.
This is published unedited from the IANS feed.
For breaking news and live news updates, like us onFacebookor follow us onTwitterandInstagram. Read more on LatestNewsonIndia.com.
Nagaland State Sambad Lottery Result 19.09.2024 For 1PM, 6PM, 8PM Live: Check Dear MAHANADI MORNING Lucky Draw Result 1 Crore First Prize Complete Winners List
Nagaland State Sambad Lottery Result 1PM, 6PM, 8PM for 17.09.2024 Live: Check Dear GODAVARI MORNING Lucky Draw Result 1 Crore First Prize Complete Winners List
US President Biden to meet Ukrainian counterpart Zelenskyy next week, discuss war situation: White House
Tirupati prasad controversy: Lab report fuels debate over animal fat allegations, Andhra CM Slams YRS Congress
'Operation Bhediya': Forest department lays down 'Love trap' for Bahraich’s lame wolf, here's how it work...
'Pakistan Will Win The Test Series Against England If...', Former Cricketer Basit Ali Explains WHY
Shan Masood Dismisses Rumours Of Rift With Shaheen Shah Afridi After Pakistan’s Test Series Loss To Bangladesh
Bangladesh Create History With Test Series Win Over Pakistan, Whitewash Shan Masood-Led Team 2-0
Watch: Shaheen Afridi Removes Captain Shan Masood's Hand In Viral Video, Sparking Team Tension Rumors
PAK Vs BAN, 1st Test: Naseem Shah Lashes Out At PCB Over Rawalpindi Pitch, Says 'Must Leverage Our Home Advantage'
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing effortsCookies Policy.

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: CTN News
CTN News – Chiang Rai Times is a news portal delivers latest breaking news and top stories updates in Thailand, Asia Pacific and across the World.




The Royal Thai Navy successfully rescued 143 Chinese and Russian tourists stranded on Koh Racha Yai island off Phuket's southern…

The government of Thailand has announced it is stepping up the promotion of its new Destination Thailand Visa (DTV) to…

A 64-year-old woman is lucky to be alive after she was freed from the coils of a 4-metre-long python that…

Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra has pledged to expedite compensation payments…

On Sunday, Bangkok Metropolitan Police CID Division announced the arrest…

Police in Bangkok have detained a couple they believe are…

CHIANG RAI - The provincial Disaster Prevention and Mitigation Office…



The National Economic and Social Development Council (NESDC) of Thailand claims that children and young people are being severely impacted…

Mr. Chaiwat Junthiraphong, Director-General of the Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation (DDPM), revealed that the flood situation in Chiang…

As Residents of Chiang Rai Province struggle to recover from the worst flooding in 60 years the Pha Muang Task…

A baby girl has been safely reunited with her biological parents after being mistakenly swapped with a baby from Myanmar…

The Chiang Rai Provincial Disaster Prevention and Mitigation Office reported that heavy rain is still causing overflowing rivers in economic…

The Chiang Rai Disaster Prevention and Mitigation Office report that despite the flood situation in the Mae Sai district improving,…

Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra has pledged to expedite compensation payments to flood victims in Chiang Rai and establish a new…

On Sunday, Bangkok Metropolitan Police CID Division announced the arrest of a 32-year-old father on charges of forcible detainment, rape,…

Sign in to your account
Remember me


Title:  Bangkok Post - Shan state meet to promote trade
PUBLISHED : 29 Jul 2017 at 07:11
NEWSPAPER SECTION:Business
WRITER:Phusadee Arunmas
The Foreign Trade Department will lead a mission to Myanmar's Shan state in an attempt to boost border trade.
Deputy director-general Adul Chotinisakorn said the trip is scheduled for Aug 7-12 with private organisations set to join the delegation.
The aim is to expand border trade by 5% this year to 1.8 trillion baht.
Mr Adul said the mission will serve as a follow-up after planning, economy and finance ministers from Shan State visited Thailand to take cues on developing tourism and other industries back home. Shan State borders China, Laos and Thailand.
This region of Myanmar welcomes investment from Thailand, particularly in hotels, restaurants, agro-industries, electricity, livestock and other tourism-related businesses, Mr Adul said.
"There are also well-known tourist destinations in Shan State such as Inle Lake and Taunggyi city that can be developed into famous attractions in the future," he said.
Mr Adul said several Thai companies will join the trip, including the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA), Bangkok Mass Transit System Plc, the Port Authority of Thailand and Amata Corporation Plc.
Tighter trade and investment ties are expected to boost border trade, which was worth roughly 1.4 trillion baht in 2016, he said.
The figure accounts for nearly 10% of Thailand's 13-trillion-baht GDP.
The Commerce Ministry hopes to boost border trade by 5% from 1.4 trillion last year to 1.8 trillion baht this year.
Trade value at Chiang Rai's Mae Sai checkpoint, which borders Myanmar's northern region close to Shan State, has climbed to 8.9 billion baht. Thai exports make up 8.7 billion baht of this, creating a huge trade surplus.
As a result, Thailand plans to hold a bilateral trade fair in Mae Sai district during Aug 25-29 to accelerate trade activities and business matchmaking.
Mr Adul said that during initial talks with the Shan State ministers they expressed interest in building a transport link from Mae Sot district in Tak to Myanmar's Mandalay and southern China to boost consumption.
By subscribing, you accept theterms and conditionsin ourprivacy policy.

Title:  Bangkok Post - Shan state meet to promote trade
PUBLISHED : 29 Jul 2017 at 07:11
NEWSPAPER SECTION:Business
WRITER:Phusadee Arunmas
The Foreign Trade Department will lead a mission to Myanmar's Shan state in an attempt to boost border trade.
Deputy director-general Adul Chotinisakorn said the trip is scheduled for Aug 7-12 with private organisations set to join the delegation.
The aim is to expand border trade by 5% this year to 1.8 trillion baht.
Mr Adul said the mission will serve as a follow-up after planning, economy and finance ministers from Shan State visited Thailand to take cues on developing tourism and other industries back home. Shan State borders China, Laos and Thailand.
This region of Myanmar welcomes investment from Thailand, particularly in hotels, restaurants, agro-industries, electricity, livestock and other tourism-related businesses, Mr Adul said.
"There are also well-known tourist destinations in Shan State such as Inle Lake and Taunggyi city that can be developed into famous attractions in the future," he said.
Mr Adul said several Thai companies will join the trip, including the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA), Bangkok Mass Transit System Plc, the Port Authority of Thailand and Amata Corporation Plc.
Tighter trade and investment ties are expected to boost border trade, which was worth roughly 1.4 trillion baht in 2016, he said.
The figure accounts for nearly 10% of Thailand's 13-trillion-baht GDP.
The Commerce Ministry hopes to boost border trade by 5% from 1.4 trillion last year to 1.8 trillion baht this year.
Trade value at Chiang Rai's Mae Sai checkpoint, which borders Myanmar's northern region close to Shan State, has climbed to 8.9 billion baht. Thai exports make up 8.7 billion baht of this, creating a huge trade surplus.
As a result, Thailand plans to hold a bilateral trade fair in Mae Sai district during Aug 25-29 to accelerate trade activities and business matchmaking.
Mr Adul said that during initial talks with the Shan State ministers they expressed interest in building a transport link from Mae Sot district in Tak to Myanmar's Mandalay and southern China to boost consumption.
By subscribing, you accept theterms and conditionsin ourprivacy policy.

Title:  Bangkok Post - Shan state meet to promote trade
PUBLISHED : 29 Jul 2017 at 07:11
NEWSPAPER SECTION:Business
WRITER:Phusadee Arunmas
The Foreign Trade Department will lead a mission to Myanmar's Shan state in an attempt to boost border trade.
Deputy director-general Adul Chotinisakorn said the trip is scheduled for Aug 7-12 with private organisations set to join the delegation.
The aim is to expand border trade by 5% this year to 1.8 trillion baht.
Mr Adul said the mission will serve as a follow-up after planning, economy and finance ministers from Shan State visited Thailand to take cues on developing tourism and other industries back home. Shan State borders China, Laos and Thailand.
This region of Myanmar welcomes investment from Thailand, particularly in hotels, restaurants, agro-industries, electricity, livestock and other tourism-related businesses, Mr Adul said.
"There are also well-known tourist destinations in Shan State such as Inle Lake and Taunggyi city that can be developed into famous attractions in the future," he said.
Mr Adul said several Thai companies will join the trip, including the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA), Bangkok Mass Transit System Plc, the Port Authority of Thailand and Amata Corporation Plc.
Tighter trade and investment ties are expected to boost border trade, which was worth roughly 1.4 trillion baht in 2016, he said.
The figure accounts for nearly 10% of Thailand's 13-trillion-baht GDP.
The Commerce Ministry hopes to boost border trade by 5% from 1.4 trillion last year to 1.8 trillion baht this year.
Trade value at Chiang Rai's Mae Sai checkpoint, which borders Myanmar's northern region close to Shan State, has climbed to 8.9 billion baht. Thai exports make up 8.7 billion baht of this, creating a huge trade surplus.
As a result, Thailand plans to hold a bilateral trade fair in Mae Sai district during Aug 25-29 to accelerate trade activities and business matchmaking.
Mr Adul said that during initial talks with the Shan State ministers they expressed interest in building a transport link from Mae Sot district in Tak to Myanmar's Mandalay and southern China to boost consumption.
By subscribing, you accept theterms and conditionsin ourprivacy policy.

Title: Thailand blocks Shan organization's meeting in Chiang Mai | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
At the behest of a Tatmadaw attaché, Thailand blocked a meeting of Shan organizations and ethnic armed groups set to take place in Chiang Mai this week, according to a member of the preparation committee.
The Committee for Shan State Unity (CSSU) led by Lieutenant General Yawd Serk of the Restoration Council of Shan State, was set to meet from July 20 to 22.
Brigadier General Khin Zaw, the Myanmar Military Attaché for Thailand, requested Thai authorities prohibit the CSSU meeting due to the inclusion of "unofficial" organizations and involvement of foreigners who allegedly could cause confusions in Myanmar's internal affairs, according to the organizer.
Thailand complied with the request.“This is a bilateral issue. We had to prohibit it since we were asked to do it. I don’t understand this issue. There hasn’t been any prohibition against the UNFC [United Nationalities Federal Council] which has not signed the nationwide ceasefire agreement, but they didn’t want the meeting to be held by Lt Gen Yawd Serk, whose organization has signed the nationwide ceasefire agreement,” said a Thai security official, speaking anonymously.U Khun Sai, director of the Pyidaungsu Institute, said he believes the prohibition is due to the attendance of a representative of the Shan State Progress Party/Shan State Army (SSPP/SSA), which has not signed the nationwide ceasefire agreement (NCA), as well as the attendance of Sao Harn Yawnghwe, who was rumored to have been blakclisted by the government. The youngest son of then Burma’s first president Sao Shwe Thaike, and was of the Euro Burma Office, was barred from entering Myanmar on multiple-entry visa earlier this year.The CSSU was established with Shan ethnic armed organizations from the northern and southern areas, Shan political parties, and Shan social organizations.Lt Gen Yawd Serk, chair of the Restoration Council of Shan State/Shan State Army-Sotuh'd (RCSS/SSA), was reappointed as chair of the CSSU for 2017-2018.
Thailand complied with the request.
“This is a bilateral issue. We had to prohibit it since we were asked to do it. I don’t understand this issue. There hasn’t been any prohibition against the UNFC [United Nationalities Federal Council] which has not signed the nationwide ceasefire agreement, but they didn’t want the meeting to be held by Lt Gen Yawd Serk, whose organization has signed the nationwide ceasefire agreement,” said a Thai security official, speaking anonymously.
U Khun Sai, director of the Pyidaungsu Institute, said he believes the prohibition is due to the attendance of a representative of the Shan State Progress Party/Shan State Army (SSPP/SSA), which has not signed the nationwide ceasefire agreement (NCA), as well as the attendance of Sao Harn Yawnghwe, who was rumored to have been blakclisted by the government. The youngest son of then Burma’s first president Sao Shwe Thaike, and was of the Euro Burma Office, was barred from entering Myanmar on multiple-entry visa earlier this year.
The CSSU was established with Shan ethnic armed organizations from the northern and southern areas, Shan political parties, and Shan social organizations.
Lt Gen Yawd Serk, chair of the Restoration Council of Shan State/Shan State Army-Sotuh'd (RCSS/SSA), was reappointed as chair of the CSSU for 2017-2018.

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title:  Bangkok Post - Myanmar warns of 'imminent terrorist attack' in Shan State
PUBLISHED : 11 Jul 2017 at 00:34
WRITER:YE MON, Democratic Voice of Burma
Myanmar government forces have distributed leaflets in the Shan State city of Lashio, warning residents of an imminent attack by the Kachin Independence Army (KIA) and Ta'ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), with the army on "high alert".
A spokesperson for the KIA on Monday denied any such plans and accused theTatmadaw(Myanmar military) of "spreading lies". He called the warnings a "misinformation campaign" that was only a veiled threat against the local population.
Neither theKachin Independence Armynor the TNLA have signed the government-backednationwide ceasefire agreement. Both groups have been regularly engaged in armed clashes against the Myanmar army in northern Shan State and next-door Kachin State.
The leaflets, which were distributed by Myanmar soldiers to people in the street and at their homes, say that the Tatmadaw have received a tip-off that the Kachin and Ta'ang ethnic armed groups are planning a "terrorist attack" in Lashio Township. The leaflets warned that public markets, government buildings and Lashio railway station could all be targets for bombings.
According to the leaflets, the KIA has sent six men and four women to Lashio to carry out a bomb attack. It says that prior to this, 20 insurgents with expertise in bomb-making were sent into the town on a reconnaissance mission "to determine the best targets".
The propaganda pamphlets also contain graphic pictures reported to show dead victims of the ethnic armies, as well as scenes of torture.
Government forces' Tactical Operations Commander Col Kyaw Than Swe said that the pamphlets were intended as a public safety measure, and he called on all local residents in Lashio to assist in preventing acts of terror.
According to Lashio residents who spoke to DVB, the Myanmar army has beefed up security in the town, including patrols in armoured vehicles.
Lashio, about 200km northeast of Mandalay, has a population of around 130,000, made up mostly of Shan, Burman and Chinese residents.
A spokesperson for the Shan State police force, Pol Col Aung Myat Moe, said Monday that he would not accuse the KIA and TNLA directly, but believed that "ethnic armed groups" were planning an attack. He identified Pyi Htaung Su Main Road, which is the highway heading north from Lashio to Hsipaw and Muse, as a likely target.
Aung Myat Moe said that police were stationed at busy areas in Lashio Township to monitor "any suspicious people".
"I would think that bridges would be the targets for bombing attacks," he said. "However, we will not accuse any ethnic armed group by name. We do not want to accuse anyone without evidence."
In response, Col Naw Bu, the spokesperson for the KIA, told Democratic Voice of Burma by telephone Monday that the Kachin group did not participate in terrorism nor would it conduct an operation that would cause civilian casualties.
He accused the Tatmadaw of "spreading lies" with the intention of "damaging the dignity" of the KIA and TNLA among the public.
"The Burmese military are actually threatening the public," he continued. "We, the KIA, would never act like that. We only attack the Tatmadaw – never innocent people."
TheTNLAwere unavailable for comment on Monday.
By subscribing, you accept theterms and conditionsin ourprivacy policy.

Title:  Bangkok Post - Myanmar warns of 'imminent terrorist attack' in Shan State
PUBLISHED : 11 Jul 2017 at 00:34
WRITER:YE MON, Democratic Voice of Burma
Myanmar government forces have distributed leaflets in the Shan State city of Lashio, warning residents of an imminent attack by the Kachin Independence Army (KIA) and Ta'ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), with the army on "high alert".
A spokesperson for the KIA on Monday denied any such plans and accused theTatmadaw(Myanmar military) of "spreading lies". He called the warnings a "misinformation campaign" that was only a veiled threat against the local population.
Neither theKachin Independence Armynor the TNLA have signed the government-backednationwide ceasefire agreement. Both groups have been regularly engaged in armed clashes against the Myanmar army in northern Shan State and next-door Kachin State.
The leaflets, which were distributed by Myanmar soldiers to people in the street and at their homes, say that the Tatmadaw have received a tip-off that the Kachin and Ta'ang ethnic armed groups are planning a "terrorist attack" in Lashio Township. The leaflets warned that public markets, government buildings and Lashio railway station could all be targets for bombings.
According to the leaflets, the KIA has sent six men and four women to Lashio to carry out a bomb attack. It says that prior to this, 20 insurgents with expertise in bomb-making were sent into the town on a reconnaissance mission "to determine the best targets".
The propaganda pamphlets also contain graphic pictures reported to show dead victims of the ethnic armies, as well as scenes of torture.
Government forces' Tactical Operations Commander Col Kyaw Than Swe said that the pamphlets were intended as a public safety measure, and he called on all local residents in Lashio to assist in preventing acts of terror.
According to Lashio residents who spoke to DVB, the Myanmar army has beefed up security in the town, including patrols in armoured vehicles.
Lashio, about 200km northeast of Mandalay, has a population of around 130,000, made up mostly of Shan, Burman and Chinese residents.
A spokesperson for the Shan State police force, Pol Col Aung Myat Moe, said Monday that he would not accuse the KIA and TNLA directly, but believed that "ethnic armed groups" were planning an attack. He identified Pyi Htaung Su Main Road, which is the highway heading north from Lashio to Hsipaw and Muse, as a likely target.
Aung Myat Moe said that police were stationed at busy areas in Lashio Township to monitor "any suspicious people".
"I would think that bridges would be the targets for bombing attacks," he said. "However, we will not accuse any ethnic armed group by name. We do not want to accuse anyone without evidence."
In response, Col Naw Bu, the spokesperson for the KIA, told Democratic Voice of Burma by telephone Monday that the Kachin group did not participate in terrorism nor would it conduct an operation that would cause civilian casualties.
He accused the Tatmadaw of "spreading lies" with the intention of "damaging the dignity" of the KIA and TNLA among the public.
"The Burmese military are actually threatening the public," he continued. "We, the KIA, would never act like that. We only attack the Tatmadaw – never innocent people."
TheTNLAwere unavailable for comment on Monday.
By subscribing, you accept theterms and conditionsin ourprivacy policy.

Title: New Clash Between Ethnic Militia And Myanmar Troops Begins in Kachin State - Myanmar | ReliefWeb
Myanmar
An armed ethnic group clashed with government troops on Wednesday morning in the Indawgyi region of northern Myanmar’s Kachin state in the latest bout of hostilities between the two adversaries, local residents said.
Government troops from Division 101 and Kachin Independence Army (KIA) troops from Battalion 6 battled each other for nearly an hour about two miles east of Aing-lay-tu village in Mohnyin township, they said.
It is not known if there were any casualties, villagers said.
Some of the roughly 80 ethnic Shan families who live in the area and farm for a living said shells from the battle fell near their farm huts.
“We were working in the fields when we heard the gunfire,” said one villager who declined to give his name. “And then shells fell in our area, and we all fled to avoid being killed. We don’t know when we can return.”
In June, fighting between government soldiers and the KIA forced thousands of people to flee the seven wards that comprise the Tanaing gold and amber mining region in Kachin state’s Tanaing township.
The Myanmar government is trying to end decades of ethnic separatist civil wars and forge peace in the country through a series of peace negotiations started last August by de facto national leader Aung San Suu Kyi.
The KIA was invited as an observer rather than a participant to the second and most recent peace conference in May, because the group, along with seven other militias, has not signed the government's nationwide cease-fire agreement (NCA).
The KIA was one of four ethnic armed groups belonging to an umbrella organization for militias which have not signed the NCA that recently split from the body over a disagreement about the pact.
Fighting in northern Shan state
Meanwhile, more than 300 villagers who live in Namtu township in northern Shan state fled to central Namtu town on Wednesday as fighting flared between two rival ethnic militias—the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) and Shan State Army-South (SSA-S)—an official from a local youth organization said.
The fighting occurred in the morning, and the residents left their villages in the evening, said Lway Kee Daung, joint secretary of the Ta’ang Students and Youth Committee.
The 300 people from six villages have sought shelter inside Pobbayon Monastery in Namtu, she said.
Intermittent clashes between the TNLA and SSA-S, the military wing of the Restoration Council of Shan State, first broke out in November 2015, weeks after the SSA-S joined seven other ethnic militias in signing the NCA.
The two groups have blamed the hostilities on accusations of territorial encroachment by each side.
Fighting between the two ethnic militias and between the TNLA and the government army in northern Shan state has caused thousands of residents to leave their villages and flee to safety.
Reported by Kyaw Myo Min and Thiri Min Zin for RFA’s Myanmar Service. Translated by Khin Maung Nyane. Written in English by Roseanne Gerin.
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-20 14:12Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: No title found
