Title: Military Space News, Nuclear Weapons, Missile Defense


Title: Rohingya in Pakistan complain of discrimination – DW – 09/25/2017
Pakistan's government and Islamic groups have criticized Myanmar for its "persecution" of the Rohingya Muslims in Rakhine. But how is Pakistan treating its own Rohingyas who have been living in the country for decades?
"I am a Rohingya, but a Pakistani Rohingya. I speak Bengali and that is why most people call us Bengali in our area. They don't accept us as Pakistanis," Mufiz Ur Rehman, a Rohingya based in Karachi's Arakan Abad area, told DW.
Arakan Abad is named after Myanmar's Arakan state, also known as Rakhine. This state in Myanmar's west is currently witnessing a Rohingya exodus following clashes between militants and the Southeast Asian country's security forces. Over 400,000Rohingyas have fled to neighboring Bangladeshfollowing the start of the latest conflict on August 25, when around 100 armed Muslim insurgents attacked security guards in the border region with Bangladesh.
The Rohingya are an ethnic minority in Myanmar, which originates from the Indian sub- continent. For several centuries they have lived predominantly in Rakhine. They are predominately Muslim. The Rohingya are not officially recognized by the government as citizens and for decades Myanmar's Buddhist majority has been accused of subjecting them to discrimination and violence.
Viewed by the United Nations and the United States as one of the world's most persecuted minorities, thousands of Rohingya from Myanmar and Bangladesh flee their countries every year in a desperate attempt to reach the mainly Muslim-majority countries, Malaysia and Indonesia.
Apart from Myanmar and Bangladesh,Rohingya are settled in India, Pakistan, Thailand, Malaysia, and also Saudi Arabia.
Pakistan, which is home to anywhere between 40,000 and 250,000 Rohingyas, lodged an official protest with Myanmar's government over its treatment of the ethnic minority. But the Rohingyas living in Pakistan find it hypocritical as they say they face discrimination in the Muslim-majority country and are forced to live in poor conditions.
Read more:Suu Kyi's Rohingya speech: Too little, too late?
Unaccepted
Nasir Ahmed told DW about the poor living standards in the Arakan Abad slum. "We are living in a slum. The living conditions are abysmal here."
The area lacks basic facilities. There are no hospitals in Arakan Abad. The Rohingya people live in dilapidated houses, with families crammed in small rooms. Mufiz Ur Rehman lives with 20 other Rohingya in a tiny apartment.
There are around 100,000 Rohingyas in Arakan Abad, according to Nur Hussain Arkani, president of the Burmese Muslim Welfare Organization. Most of them are fishermen, whereas some work in the garment factories.
Read more:Rohingya people in Myanmar: what you need to know
"I have never been to Myanmar," said Rehman. "I just know that my father migrated from Myanmar to Pakistan. But I have seen what is happening in Myanmar on TV. It is heart wrenching to see that our people are being persecuted in Myanmar and no one is helping them."
The 75-year-old Rahmat Ali, who came to Pakistan from Myanmar in the early 1970s, said the current Rakhine crisis is worse than ever.
"Myanmar has not changed its attitude towards Rohingya. The torture and genocide are continuing, but this time around it is much worse," Ali told DW.
Ali said it is hard to make a living in Pakistan. "I lived in Rakhine, escaped genocide there and made my way to Pakistan in the early 1970s through Bangladesh, which was then East Pakistan. One of my daughters, Zohra Khatoon, still lives in Dhaka, Bangladesh," Ali said.
"I have been living in Pakistan for more than four decades but I have not been accepted as a Pakistani. For Pakistanis, we are Bengalis and refugees," Ali added.
Read more:Rohingya crisis: Exiled blogger describes Myanmar violence
No proof of citizenship
Rohingya living in Karachi's Arakan Abad area also told DW they could not apply for government jobs in Pakistan.
"We don't possess the country's National Identity Card, hence we are ineligible for government jobs," a Pakistani Rohingya told DW.
Many Rohingya and Bengalis, however, have obtained illegal identification documents in Pakistan.
The Rohingya also face social discrimination in the South Asian country.
"There should be no place for Rohingya in Pakistan. They are Indian agents. They should leave the country. The authorities' crackdown on them is justified. They are not Pakistanis," a rickshaw driver told DW.
Abul Hussain, who came to Pakistan from Rakhine in 1968, is still living as a refugee in Karachi.
"We are harassed by police because we don't have identification documents. Many Rohingya fishermen from Pakistan, who are caught by the Indian coastguard, can't prove they are Pakistanis because they don't possess Pakistan's citizenship. We are the ultimate stateless people," Hussain told DW.
"We are being killed in Myanmar. We are being tortured in Pakistan," Hussain said.

Title: 
	Security beefed up on Myanmar border in Mizoram to check entry of Rohingya Muslims - The Hindu

To enjoy additional benefits
CONNECT WITH US
Updated- November 28, 2021 07:43 am IST - Aizawl
There is heavy patrolling by the Assam Rifles intensified along the Mizoram-Arakan (Myanmar) border in the state’s Lawngtlai district. File photo
Security has been beefed up and patrolling by the Assam Rifles intensified along the Mizoram—Arakan (Myanmar) border in the state’s Lawngtlai district, in view of the possibility of Rohingya Muslim militants and refugees attempting to enter the state.
A senior home department official said today that several meetings were held by the Mizoram police, paramilitary forces and intelligence agencies of both the central and state governments to review the security situation along the Myanmar border.
“Not a single Rohingya Muslim has so far entered Mizoram,” he added.
Mizoram shares a 404-km international border with Myanmar and a 318-km border with Bangladesh.
Meanwhile, around 170 refugees — mainly Christians — from Arakan in Myanmar, who entered Mizoram recently, had remained in the villages in the southern parts of the state, the official said.
The refugees had fled Arakan in Myanmar’s Rakhine state in the wake of clashes between the Myanmar Army and the Arakan Liberation Army.
Published- September 19, 2017 07:57 pm IST
illegal immigrants/Mizoram/national security
Copyright© 2024, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
BACK TO TOP
Terms & conditions|Institutional Subscriber
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by ourcommunity guidelinesfor posting your comments.
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.

Title: MSN


Title: Security beefed up to check entry of Rohingya Muslims along Indo-Myanmar border | India News - The Indian Express
Security has been beefed up and patrolling by the Assam Rifles intensified along the Mizoram-Arakan (Myanmar) border in the state’s Lawngtlai district, in view of the possibility of Rohingya Muslim militants and refugees attempting to enter the state.
A senior home department official said today that several meetings were held by the Mizoram police, paramilitary forces and intelligence agencies of both the central and state governments to review the security situation along the Myanmar border. “Not a single Rohingya Muslim has so far entered Mizoram,” he added.
Mizoram shares a 404-km international border with Myanmar and a 318-km border with Bangladesh. Meanwhile, around 170 refugees — mainly Christians –from Arakan in Myanmar, who entered Mizoram recently, had remained in the villages in the southern parts of the state, the official said.
The refugees had fled Arakan in Myanmar’s Rakhine state in the wake of clashes between the Myanmar Army and the Arakan Liberation Army.
Click here to join The Indian Express on WhatsApp and get latest news and updates
The process of remaking a web series is different from remaking a film. The rules remain the same - ensure local nativity and don't spoil the original. Prime Video's Panchayat became a hit in the Indian OTT space, and now its Tamil remake, Thalaivettiyaan Paalayam, has done things largely right



Title: Press Trust Of India


Title: India beefs up security along Myanmar border to check entry of Rohingya Muslims – Firstpost
Security has been beefed up by Assam Rifles intensified along Mizoram-Arakan border in view of the possibility of Rohingya Muslim militants, refugees attempting to enter state.
Aizawl:Security has been beefed up and patrolling by the Assam Rifles intensified along the Mizoram-Arakan (Myanmar) border in the state’s Lawngtlai district, in view of the possibility of Rohingya Muslim militants and refugees attempting to enter the state.
A senior home department official said that several meetings were held by the Mizoram police, paramilitary forces and intelligence agencies of both the central and state governments to review the security situation along the Myanmar border.
“Not a single Rohingya Muslim has so far entered Mizoram,” he added.
Mizoram shares a 404-km international border with Myanmar and a 318-km border with Bangladesh.
Meanwhile, around 170 refugees, mainly Christians from Arakan in Myanmar, who entered Mizoram recently, had remained in the villages in the southern parts of the state, the official said.
The refugees had fled Arakan in Myanmar’s Rakhine state in the wake of clashes between the Myanmar Army and the Arakan Liberation Army.
Find us on YouTube
is on YouTube
Copyright @ 2024. Firstpost - All Rights Reserved

Title: ARMED CONFLICT RESUMES IN NORTHERN SHAN STATE: After a month lull, conflict continues between the TNLA and Tatmadaw | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
Many might have thought that, with the ongoing and growing problematic in Rakhine State reaching international height that has caught United Nations attention and global concern, nobody would ever expect that the Military or Tatmadaw would quickly continue and resume with its offensive strategy move, after barely just one month of relative calm in Palaung or Ta’ang area.
The firefight lull of a month or so was broken when in September 11, the Tatmadaw clashed with the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) Battalion-987 and Tatmadaw Division-77 troops at the upper side of Loi Ka Lay village of Kyaukme Township, according to the situation report of the TNLA.
Again on September 13,  the TNLA and Tatmadaw troops clashed in 3 separate places, in Namtu, Namhsan  and Kyaukme Townships.
In a battle in Namhsan Township at the place between Hu Kin and Man Mai Main villages, the Tatmadaw was said to suffer 3 dead, although there is no confirmation from the government or Tatmadaw side.As recently as September 18, armed clashes have been occurring in Kutkai Township, according to the TNLA situation report.Maj Mai Aik Kyaw recently told the media that the Tatmadaw has reinforced its troops in areas where the TNLA also maintains a presence. He said the Tatmadaw has increased its 88th, 77th and 33rd Light Infantry Divisions, as well as two military operations commands, resulting in about 6,000 Tatmadaw troops currently active in Kyaukme, Mogok, Hsipaw, Namhsan, Namtu, Kutkai, Hsenwi, Muse, and Namkham Townships.During the past few months with the exceptional break of about a month in August and early September, sporadic armed engagement has been the order of the day, not only with the Tatmadaw but also with the Restoration Council of Shan State/Shan State Army (RCSS/SSA).The conflict between the two started in the aftermath of the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement (NCA) signing in October 2015, of which RCSS is also a signatory. Shortly after the RCSS reinforced its troops in northern Shan State, which the TNLA claimed to be within its area of operation, the military confrontation began between the two until today.  The TNLA accused the RCSS of infringement into its area, while the RCSS said that it had been only protecting its Shan or Tai population, which it accused the TNLA of riding roughshod, and reinforcing its troops in its original stamping ground.Thus, as a result the three groups, the Tatmadaw, the TNLA and  RCSS/SSA are regularly engaged in armed clashes in this part of the northern Shan State, where troops operating in the area tend to step on each other toes, intentionally or unintentionally.However, the regular meeting have been taking place, due to the possible problematic friction of geographical and operational area overlapping, between the RCSS and the United Wa State Army (UWSA), said to be also the arms supporter of the TNLA and also a member of Pangkham political alliance, the Federal Peace Negotiation and Consultative Committee (FPNCC) made up of seven ethnic armies. Apart from that the recent last few weeks meeting between the two was said to include on how the armed conflict between the RCSS and the TNLA should be resolved.FPNCC is formed this year in April with the UWSA, the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), the Shan State Progressive Party (SSPP), the TNLA, the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA), the Arakan Army (AA) and the National Democratic Alliance Army (NDAA).General Yawd Serk told Democratic Voice of Burma on September 15 that the inter-ethnic conflict persists and that the leaders of the RCSS and the TNLA were willing to meet somewhere in the near future, to de-escalate tensions in northern Shan State, where both claim territory, although location and date has not yet been agreed upon.“We planned a lot of times to meet with them but it didn’t actually happen. Now, we are still arranging to meet with them,” he saidWhile the thawing of difficult conflict situation between the RCSS and the TNLA might now be in sight, for whatever reason they might have in store, the possibility of TNLA and Tatmadaw coming to terms to sit down and talk is still a long way off.On August 21, Mon News Agency reported that fighting will not end until the Tatmadaw changes its attitude, according to an official from the TNLA during the FPNCC summit, from August 18 to20,  in northern Shan State, at Pangkham, the UWSA headquarters“If there is no dialogue and the Tatmadaw does not change its attitude, fighting will not end no matter what kind of [ceasefire] agreement has been signed. The situation is very bad. It’s very difficult to stop the civil war,” Brigadier General Tar Bone Kyaw, general secretary of the TNLA told the media.The seven-member FPNCC gathered to review its political dialogue policy and unanimously agreed that the groups will only meet with government negotiators collectively.“The problem is that the Myanmar government wants to meet the Wa or [UWSA] and the Mongla or the [NDAA] separately. As you all know, the Tatmadaw has officially said we [the TNLA, the AA and MNDAA] can only meet with them and participate in the peace process after we surrender our arms, so we are in a very difficult position,” he said.And as such, the Tatmadaw seems to be bent on military success or negotiated surrender of the TNLA. Its undertaking of area clearance, domination of the TNLA operational area and the ongoing heightened offensives could be only seen as an indication to further the said military solution. Besides, it has not budged an inch from its commitment of meeting the FPNCC separately and not as a group as the alliance has agreed to go about with the peace negotiation process with the government and the Tatmadaw.As it is, the fate of the TNLA is tied to the FPNCC and the changing of Tatmadaw’s attitude to be more lenient or accommodating. Otherwise, the status quo situation of on and off military confrontation will continue between the TNLA and the Tatmadaw, without real movement of progress to negotiate with the FPNCC, which in turn would only mean the stagnation of the peace negotiation process as a whole for the country.
In a battle in Namhsan Township at the place between Hu Kin and Man Mai Main villages, the Tatmadaw was said to suffer 3 dead, although there is no confirmation from the government or Tatmadaw side.
As recently as September 18, armed clashes have been occurring in Kutkai Township, according to the TNLA situation report.
Maj Mai Aik Kyaw recently told the media that the Tatmadaw has reinforced its troops in areas where the TNLA also maintains a presence. He said the Tatmadaw has increased its 88th, 77th and 33rd Light Infantry Divisions, as well as two military operations commands, resulting in about 6,000 Tatmadaw troops currently active in Kyaukme, Mogok, Hsipaw, Namhsan, Namtu, Kutkai, Hsenwi, Muse, and Namkham Townships.
During the past few months with the exceptional break of about a month in August and early September, sporadic armed engagement has been the order of the day, not only with the Tatmadaw but also with the Restoration Council of Shan State/Shan State Army (RCSS/SSA).
The conflict between the two started in the aftermath of the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement (NCA) signing in October 2015, of which RCSS is also a signatory. Shortly after the RCSS reinforced its troops in northern Shan State, which the TNLA claimed to be within its area of operation, the military confrontation began between the two until today.  The TNLA accused the RCSS of infringement into its area, while the RCSS said that it had been only protecting its Shan or Tai population, which it accused the TNLA of riding roughshod, and reinforcing its troops in its original stamping ground.
Thus, as a result the three groups, the Tatmadaw, the TNLA and  RCSS/SSA are regularly engaged in armed clashes in this part of the northern Shan State, where troops operating in the area tend to step on each other toes, intentionally or unintentionally.
However, the regular meeting have been taking place, due to the possible problematic friction of geographical and operational area overlapping, between the RCSS and the United Wa State Army (UWSA), said to be also the arms supporter of the TNLA and also a member of Pangkham political alliance, the Federal Peace Negotiation and Consultative Committee (FPNCC) made up of seven ethnic armies. Apart from that the recent last few weeks meeting between the two was said to include on how the armed conflict between the RCSS and the TNLA should be resolved.
FPNCC is formed this year in April with the UWSA, the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), the Shan State Progressive Party (SSPP), the TNLA, the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA), the Arakan Army (AA) and the National Democratic Alliance Army (NDAA).
General Yawd Serk told Democratic Voice of Burma on September 15 that the inter-ethnic conflict persists and that the leaders of the RCSS and the TNLA were willing to meet somewhere in the near future, to de-escalate tensions in northern Shan State, where both claim territory, although location and date has not yet been agreed upon.
“We planned a lot of times to meet with them but it didn’t actually happen. Now, we are still arranging to meet with them,” he said
While the thawing of difficult conflict situation between the RCSS and the TNLA might now be in sight, for whatever reason they might have in store, the possibility of TNLA and Tatmadaw coming to terms to sit down and talk is still a long way off.
On August 21, Mon News Agency reported that fighting will not end until the Tatmadaw changes its attitude, according to an official from the TNLA during the FPNCC summit, from August 18 to20,  in northern Shan State, at Pangkham, the UWSA headquarters
“If there is no dialogue and the Tatmadaw does not change its attitude, fighting will not end no matter what kind of [ceasefire] agreement has been signed. The situation is very bad. It’s very difficult to stop the civil war,” Brigadier General Tar Bone Kyaw, general secretary of the TNLA told the media.
The seven-member FPNCC gathered to review its political dialogue policy and unanimously agreed that the groups will only meet with government negotiators collectively.
“The problem is that the Myanmar government wants to meet the Wa or [UWSA] and the Mongla or the [NDAA] separately. As you all know, the Tatmadaw has officially said we [the TNLA, the AA and MNDAA] can only meet with them and participate in the peace process after we surrender our arms, so we are in a very difficult position,” he said.
And as such, the Tatmadaw seems to be bent on military success or negotiated surrender of the TNLA. Its undertaking of area clearance, domination of the TNLA operational area and the ongoing heightened offensives could be only seen as an indication to further the said military solution. Besides, it has not budged an inch from its commitment of meeting the FPNCC separately and not as a group as the alliance has agreed to go about with the peace negotiation process with the government and the Tatmadaw.
As it is, the fate of the TNLA is tied to the FPNCC and the changing of Tatmadaw’s attitude to be more lenient or accommodating. Otherwise, the status quo situation of on and off military confrontation will continue between the TNLA and the Tatmadaw, without real movement of progress to negotiate with the FPNCC, which in turn would only mean the stagnation of the peace negotiation process as a whole for the country.

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: UNHCR Web Archive


Title: Ethnic Bloc Denounces ARSA - Myanmar | ReliefWeb
Myanmar
By Nyein Nyein 14 September 2017
CHIANG MAI, Thailand — The United Nationalities Federal Council (UNFC), a bloc of five ethnic armed groups, has denounced the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army (ARSA).
During a two-day meeting in northern Thailand’s Chiang Mai on Sept. 11-12, the alliance discussed the Rakhine conflict in addition to its current talks with the government on the nationwide ceasefire agreement (NCA).
When asked about the bloc’s views on ARSA, an emerging group whose Aug. 25 attacks on police stations triggered an army crackdown leading to a mass exodus, UNFC chairman and New Mon State Party (NMSP) vice chairman Nai Hong Sar said, “We do not acknowledge the ARSA, as its operations appeared to be violent.”
The UNFC also comprises the Karenni National Progressive Party (KNPP), the Lahu Democratic Union (LDU), the Arakan National Council (ANC), and the Shan State Progress Party (SSPP). Four other members resigned earlier this year.
“We also worry about the ARSA’s possible movement in Mon State, as the state is open to the [Andaman] sea,” Nai Hong Sar said, adding that the same security measures that have been taken in Irrawaddy Region should be taken in Mon State.
The ARSA claims its fight is to achieve basic rights for self-identifying Rohingya, a stateless Muslim minority that has seen more than 400,000 of its members flee to Bangladesh in recent weeks, according to the UN, escaping alleged indiscriminate killing, rape and arson by Myanmar security forces.
However, reports of ARSA militants killing civilians and carrying out arson have fueled the domestic image of it as a “terrorist organization,” a label approved by the government. Some 30,000 ethnic Arakanese were displaced in Rakhine State because of the conflict it sparked.
ARSA’s announcement of a one-month ceasefire on Sept. 10 was met with the Myanmar government’s spokesman tweeting that the government “does not negotiate with terrorists.”
The group has stated it does not target civilians and rejected any affiliations to transnational jihadist groups, saying in a press release on Thursday it “does not welcome” the involvement of those groups in Rakhine.
Surrounding the violence is a persisting debate over the name for the self-identifying Rohingya, who are referred to as “Bengalis” by most in Myanmar, inferring they are illegal immigrants from Bangladesh.
“We do not recognize the term ‘Rohingya’,” said Nai Hong Sar. UNFC would not include ARSA in its “all-inclusive” peace talks, he added.
Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) vice chairman Tar Jode Jar told The Irrawaddy that ARSA is on a “totally different” path to other ethnic armed groups.
He echoed claims widely circulated in Myanmar that the problems in Rakhine problems are the result of previous governments’ negligence.
Muslims were issued white cards—temporary citizenship papers—in Rakhine in return for votes in the discredited 2010 election, he said.
UNFC is negotiating to sign the NCA on the basis of its eight-point proposal. But government talks with the UNFC and another bloc, the Northern Alliance, have made little progress, partly because the Tatmadaw rejects the Arakan Army, Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army, TNLA and the Kachin Independence Army (KIA).
All four of these groups were labeled as “terrorist” organizations in the Shan State parliament in December 2016.
Thu Thu Aung contributed to this report.
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Burma’s Northern Shan State and Prospects for Peace | United States Institute of Peace
Search for experts, projects, publications, courses, and more.
Home▶Publications
Friday, September 29, 2017/By:David Scott Mathieson
By:David Scott Mathieson
Publication Type:Peace Brief
Armed conflict between the Burmese Army and various ethnic armed organizations continue to threaten the peace process of the National League for Democracy government led by Aung San Suu Kyi. This Brief focuses on conflict dynamics to provide an overview of resurgent conflict patterns in northern Shan State over the past two years, outlines the armed groups involved, their competing interests, the human rights effects on the civilians in the area, and how the fighting has affected the nationwide ceasefire.
Even as Burma has transitioned—beginning in late 2010—from decades of civil war and military rule to greater democracy, long-standing and widespread armed conflict has resumed between several ethnic armed organizations (EAOs) and the Burmese armed forces (Tatmadaw). Early in 2011, a 1994 ceasefire agreement broke down as relations deterioriated in the wake of the National League for Democracy government’s refusal to permit Kachin political parties to participate in the elections that ended the era of military rule in the country. At the same time, tensions over economic interests and territory escalated.
The major EAOs operating in the north of Shan State—which occupies almost a quarter of Burma’s land area and juts out to the east, bordering China, Laos, and Thailand—include the Ta-ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), the (ethnic Chinese) Myanmar Democratic Alliance Army, and the Kachin Independence Army.1After the end of the ceasefire agreement in 2011, Kachin base areas along the Burma-China border in Kachin State (just to the north) soon became hubs for the formation or remobilization of a host of other EAOs. These included the United League of Arakan or Arakan Army of Kachin State and the reformed TNLA/Palaung State Liberation Front. These groups soon expanded their operations into northern Shan State alongside Kachin allies, where fighting raged well into 2013.
Looming over the entire area is the United Wa State Party, Burma’s largest nonstate armed group, which boasts more than twenty-five thousand heavily armed troops and a self-administered zone abutting the China border. A patchwork of government-aligned militias, called Pyithu Sit (People’s Militia), operate there, many involved in drug production and smuggling, and some working with Tatmadaw units on operations.2
The northern Shan State conflict is complex and defies easy classification. The dynamics of the fighting vary from place and time and between groups. Fighting sharply escalated in February 2015 when one faction of the former ceasefire group, the Myanmar Democratic Alliance Army, attacked the capital city of their former enclave, the border town of Laukkai, displacing tens of thousands of civilians and resulting in extensive government casualties. Multiple Tatmadaw light infantry divisions were deployed to clear the area, resulting in extensive use of heavy artillery and helicopter gunship and jet fighter air strikes.3This has produced arguably the most intensive and widespread fighting in the area since the 1980s—a marked shift from the low-intensity counterinsurgency warfare that characterized the civil war for twenty-five years.
The conflict escalated further in November 2016 with coordinated attacks by the Myanmar Democratic Alliance Army, the TNLA, the Arakan Army, and the Kachin Independence Army— formalized as the North Alliance-Burma (or North Alliance)—on the key Burma-China border town of Muse, which resulted in a dozen civilian and security force casualties, thousands of civilians fleeing to China or south, and the suspension of border trade. The fighting spread over several weeks, the rebels seizing and holding the border town of Mong Ko before being driven out by government artillery and air strikes. Hit and run ambushes by North Alliance units are reported to have inflicted significant Tatmadaw casualties, which provoked major multiunit sweeps and civilian suffering or displacement.
Even as Burma has transitioned from decades of civil war and military rule to greater democracy, longstanding and widespread armed conflict has resumed.”
Determining the circumstances of reported armed exchanges is difficult. Reasons are typically related to direct military operations, protection or interdiction of economic interests, protection of civilians, or retribution attacks. Another explanation is military pressure to force the EAOs to sign the ceasefire accord. TNLA operations against drug production and smuggling by government-aligned militias in Kutkai township have drawn in Tatmadaw troops to support their militia allies.4
To further complicate matters, armed clashes are on the increase between the TNLA and a Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement (NCA) signatory, the Restoration Council of Shan State (also known as the Shan State Army-South). These clashes are mostly thought to be over territory and economic interests, but have heightened tensions between Shan and Ta-ang communities across northern Shan State.
The conflict has had a devastating effect on civilians. The UN Office Coordinating Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) estimates the number of internally displaced people as close to one hundred thousand.5The exact figure could be higher because OCHA does not enumerate displacement where heavy fighting has been reported. Many civilians are displaced several times a year, which interrupts agricultural cycles and affects livelihoods and food security.
Since early 2016, international and Burmese humanitarian agencies have reported increasingly difficult access to internally displaced people in areas outside government control, aid convoys being turned back or travel authorizations (especially for foreign staff of international agencies) refused. The deteriorating security situation grants the Burma security services license to further restrict travel. In June 2017, three Burmese journalists attending a TNLA drug-burning ceremony were arrested by the Tatmadaw and charged under Section 17(1) of the draconian 1908 Unlawful Associations Act, which could result in a three-year prison term. The arrests evinced widespread concern that the act heralded a crackdown on reporting on nonsignatory EAOs and human rights violations.6
Shan, Ta-ang, and international human rights groups have reported widespread and systematic violations by Tatmadaw troops and their Pyithu Sit allies. These include extrajudicial executions, forced relocations, forced labor to carry supplies, human shielding during operations, and routine torture and ill-treatment of civilians, some of it captured on mobile phones and distributed through social media.7In mid-2016, the Tatmadaw made a rare admission that its troops tortured and killed five men from a village east of Lashio. Yet the Tatmadaw often refuse to acknowledge or investigate widespread reports of abuses in other parts of Shan State, despite calls from the UN Special Rapporteur Yanghee Lee to visit the areas. EAOs have been routinely accused of perpetrating abuses against civilians—including indiscriminate fire into civilian areas, forced recruitment, forced labor, torture, ill-treatment, and extortion—claims their leaders routinely deny.
Despite early promises of a more inclusive peace process under Aung San Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy government, the increased fighting in the north has contributed to more misunderstanding, mistrust, and marginalization of nonsignatory EAOs and their communities (whose combined forces make up more than 80 percent of all nonstate armed groups). The lead-up to the second Panglong 21st Century Conference in May was marked by the government’s sharply increased denunciation of the North Alliance and an insistence that attendance must be preceded by signing the NCA. In December, the Shan State regional assembly passed a motion labeling members of the North Alliance as terrorist organizations (a similar attempt in the national parliament was voted down). A series of pro-Tatmadaw civilian rallies were staged soon after. In July, soldiers distributed leaflets in Lashio warning residents of an imminent terrorist attack by the Kachin Independence Army and the TNLA, which the groups strongly denied.
Statements from the Tatmadaw Commander in Chief Senior-General Min Aung Hlaing and the State Counselor Aung San Suu Kyi over the last year have been almost indistinguishable. Suu Kyi’s first statement as head of the National Reconciliation and Peace Center denounced the use of violence by the Northern Alliance and defended the role of the Tatmadaw.8In March, she prematurely announced the pledge by five members of the Union Nationalities Federal Council (UNFC) to sign the NCA, and warned other groups—meaning the Northern Alliance—to be “extremely careful.” This misunderstanding led to the surprise UNFC boycott of the Panglong conference.9At the last minute, however, facilitated by China, the northern groups attended as special guests.
The increasing efforts by the United Wa State Party to be a coordinating leader of the northern groups is a significant development. Ahead of the Panglong conference in May, it formed the Federal Political Negotiations and Coordination Committee following a conference at its capital Panshang, which the North Alliance attended. The UNFC, formerly the main grouping of nonsignatory EAOs, was blindsided. Its nonattendance at the Panglong conference raised questions of its future role in the process and what the new Wa-led grouping had to offer. Already the Wa State Party has articulated its rejection of the NCA and deplored the dismissive approach of the Tatmadaw to ethnic grievances, signaling that it would pursue a tougher negotiating line and support the northern groups.10
China has increased its efforts to include the North Alliance into the peace process, and succeeded, clearly illustrating its growing influence.11This may have been a coup for Chinese influence but was otherwise pyrrhic in that EAO representatives did not attend any substantive meetings.
The intensity of the attacks in northern Shan State and the critical rhetoric by government and military leaders against ethnic communities has further eroded trust in an already weak peace process.12Many leaders of EAOs and their civilian support base feel a strong sense of betrayal over the lack of development, minimal political inclusion, and routine human rights abuses. These are deep grievances, dating back decades. The intensity of the growing fighting in northern Shan State is a key element in the dearth of trust in the sincerity of the Aung San Suu Kyi government to pursue peace.
It is important to analyze the flaws and missed opportunities of the ceasefire process so far to inform ongoing discussions and to find ways for international interlocutors to bridge the growing divides between all sides to this complex and growing war. International actors need to be more proactive in urging regular talks with all northern Shan State actors between the government and military, and to pursue routine consultations with a range of civil society actors in the area.
International actors also need to realize that armed conflict has escalated even as a partial ceasefire is being consolidated. These two processes require diverse advocacy approaches toward the civilian government and the Tatmadaw. Support for EAOs and civil society must differ if it is to make a difference. Last, and perhaps most significant, all sides need to be encouraged to seek negotiations without hard preconditions attached.
Focusing on conflict dynamics, this Peace Brief outlines the resurgent patterns of armed violence in the townships of Burma’s northern Shan State between 2015 and 2017 in the context of Burma’s transition to democratic rule. It is supported by the Asia Center at the United States Institute of Peace. David Mathieson is an independent analyst based in Rangoon working on peace and conflict issues in contemporary Burma. From 2006 to 2016 he was the Senior Researcher on Burma for Human Rights Watch.
USIP has a variety of newsletters and announcements with the latest analysis, publications and events.
Wednesday, August 21, 2024
By:Priscilla A. Clapp;  Erin West
By:Priscilla A. Clapp;  Erin West
From their base in ungoverned stretches of Southeast Asia, international criminal networks are prowling the Internet, seeking to defraud victims around the world with sophisticated and psychologically devastating scams. Gangsters operating out of Myanmar, Cambodia and Laos, relying on forced labor, have spread their tentacles through Asia, Africa and Latin America and increasingly within the United States, stripping gullible prey of at least $64 billion annually. Clearly, to eradicate such a global menace will require a coordinated international response. Even so, the United States is not internally powerless to confront this striking example of how conflict and corrupt governance in distant parts of the world can directly threaten Americans’ security and well-being.
Type:Analysis
Economics;Global Policy
Wednesday, August 14, 2024
By:Ye Myo Hein
By:Ye Myo Hein
The resistance’s capture of the northern city of Lashio on August 3 marks a watershed moment in Myanmar’s conflict. After a month of fierce fighting, the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army and allied resistance forces captured this crucial stronghold in northern Shan State, dealing a severe blow to the beleaguered junta. This represents more than just the loss of a major city. It is the first time that a military regional command has been captured by resistance forces.
Type:Analysis
Conflict Analysis & Prevention
Tuesday, August 6, 2024
By:Yu Yu Htay;  Sarah Harper-Johnston;  Divya Moorjani
By:Yu Yu Htay;  Sarah Harper-Johnston;  Divya Moorjani
There is a growing mental health crisis in Myanmar — one fueled by the junta’s violent atrocities against the population and a humanitarian crisis that has displaced an estimated 3.1 million people.
Type:Analysis
Conflict Analysis & Prevention;Religion
Thursday, August 1, 2024
By:Jason Tower
By:Jason Tower
Earlier this year, China brokered talks between Myanmar’s military and an alliance of ethnic armed organizations (EAOs) that handed the army its worst defeat in history. The negotiations’ goal was to restore overland trade — interrupted by fighting — between China’s Yunnan Province and Myanmar. To China’s frustration, the talks collapsed in mid-May, and in late June the alliance reopened its anti-junta offensive.
Type:Analysis
Conflict Analysis & Prevention
Wednesday, August 14, 2024
Wednesday, August 14, 2024
Wednesday, August 14, 2024
Wednesday, August 14, 2024
2301 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037Tel: +1.202.457.1700
AboutPublicationsProjectsGrants & FellowshipsVisitConnectPressBlog
The United States Institute of PeaceLegal and Privacy Information|FOIA Inquiries

Title:  Bangkok Post - The forgotten refugee crisis in Myanmar
PUBLISHED : 12 Sep 2017 at 04:25
NEWSPAPER SECTION:News
WRITER:Paskorn Jumlongrach
A major shift in the policies of donors and humanitarian agencies that has caused cuts in food supplies at camps for displaced persons along the Thai-Myanmar border has intensified the ordeal of people fleeing violence in Myanmar.
Many aid agencies started preparing to move the camps to Myanmar after the National League for Democracy government under de facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi that won the election two years ago resumed the peace process. Under the plan, they have cut their budgets, resulting in a decrease in assistance.
Food supplies for the camps that are not registered with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees will be cut off first, at the end of this month. Among those affected are Shan refugee camps in some northern provinces of Thailand, including Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai and Mae Hong Son. There are more than 6,200 refugees in those camps, known as internally displaced persons (IDP) camps.
Leaders from those camps who attended a recent lecture at Chiang Mai University insisted most of the refugees, in particular those from Shan state, wanted to stay in the camps. Myanmar soldiers are still present in many areas of Shan state and, despite a ceasefire, armed conflicts remain.
Those living in the camps are ethnic groups that fled Myanmar after 1996, during the mass-relocation by the Myanmar army in central Shan state, uprooting people from their motherland and blocking them from joining the Shan State Army. At the same time, the Myanmar army had started to work with United Wa State Army (UWSA) in a mission to eliminate illegal drugs. The Shan people believed it to be an excuse by the Myanmar army to "divide and conquer". The arrival of hundreds of thousands of Wa people into central Shan state was green-lighted by the Myanmar army and the resettlement came into succession.
The Myanmar army's operations between 1996-1998 caused more than 300,000 Shan people to flee for their lives, according to the Shan Human Rights Foundation. At least 80,000 people crossed the border to northern Thailand. But the Thai government at that time did not allow them to set up shelters or refugee camps. In the end, some Shan people had to build temporary communities along the border, and there are six IDP camps now. But some people remain in the northern region of Thailand and live harmoniously in the area.
Another ethnic groups are those from Karen and Karenni State, who previously fled the invasion of the Myanmar army in 1976 and settled in refugee camps along the western border of Thailand. There are nine refugee camps with about 100,000 people living there.
But their fates are also uncertain as international aid is decreasing and will eventually be cut off given the ongoing Myanmar peace process which is supported by so many countries, despite ongoing armed conflicts.
On the Salween River opposite Mae Hong Son, more than 3,000 members of the Karen ethnic community are also in IDP camps called Ei Tu Hta. They fled the Myanmar military expansion in 2005, but they were barred from entering Thailand.
These camps are also facing aid cuts at the end of this month. In total, there will be around 8,000 people in those camps along the border left to face an unsteady future.
"Food rations in the camp are already insufficient. We try to grow vegetables and keep livestock on our own. However, land here is extremely limited due to security reasons, and proper cultivation such as Karen rotational farming is impossible. We have to struggle through many difficulties. But staying in the camps is far safer than going back", said Hser Htoo Plaw, a leader of Oo Wei Klo IDP camp that provides shelter to thousands. He shared his concern when I visited the camp late last month.
He said people in the camp vowed not to return home as the Myanmar army still has a strong presence there. Repatriation doesn't seem practical for them. Displaced persons in Oo Wei Klo camp were receiving 12kg of rice per month, including some salt, but that will be cut as well.
There were already signs that relief funds for refugees and IDP camps would be cut off. Many foreign organisations that provided food, healthcare and education in Mae Hong Son, Chiang Mai and Tak provinces were told to relocate to Myanmar as the peace process was heralded, though without solid progress.
The situation in remote ethnic areas is very worrisome.
Ironically, the plight of refugees and displaced persons, which used to be a major issue for human rights advocates, appear to have lost ground as Myanmar is now under an elected civilian government. But as I said, little progress has been made in the peace effort.
People are still struggling and uncertainty in their lives prevails, but aid workers who act in the name of human rights seem content to leave them behind.
In both western and eastern parts of Myanmar, the refugee crisis is similarly critical. As the conflict in the western Arakan state worsens, hardship in the eastern part remains dire and forgotten.
Paskorn Jumlongrach is founder and reporter of www.transbordernews.in.th
Paskorn Jumlongrach
Founder and reporter of www.transbordernews.in.th
Passakorn Jumlongrach is founder and reporter of www.transbordernews.in.th
Passakorn Jumlongrach is founder and reporter of www.transbordernews.in.th
By subscribing, you accept theterms and conditionsin ourprivacy policy.

Title:  Bangkok Post - The forgotten refugee crisis in Myanmar
PUBLISHED : 12 Sep 2017 at 04:25
NEWSPAPER SECTION:News
WRITER:Paskorn Jumlongrach
A major shift in the policies of donors and humanitarian agencies that has caused cuts in food supplies at camps for displaced persons along the Thai-Myanmar border has intensified the ordeal of people fleeing violence in Myanmar.
Many aid agencies started preparing to move the camps to Myanmar after the National League for Democracy government under de facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi that won the election two years ago resumed the peace process. Under the plan, they have cut their budgets, resulting in a decrease in assistance.
Food supplies for the camps that are not registered with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees will be cut off first, at the end of this month. Among those affected are Shan refugee camps in some northern provinces of Thailand, including Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai and Mae Hong Son. There are more than 6,200 refugees in those camps, known as internally displaced persons (IDP) camps.
Leaders from those camps who attended a recent lecture at Chiang Mai University insisted most of the refugees, in particular those from Shan state, wanted to stay in the camps. Myanmar soldiers are still present in many areas of Shan state and, despite a ceasefire, armed conflicts remain.
Those living in the camps are ethnic groups that fled Myanmar after 1996, during the mass-relocation by the Myanmar army in central Shan state, uprooting people from their motherland and blocking them from joining the Shan State Army. At the same time, the Myanmar army had started to work with United Wa State Army (UWSA) in a mission to eliminate illegal drugs. The Shan people believed it to be an excuse by the Myanmar army to "divide and conquer". The arrival of hundreds of thousands of Wa people into central Shan state was green-lighted by the Myanmar army and the resettlement came into succession.
The Myanmar army's operations between 1996-1998 caused more than 300,000 Shan people to flee for their lives, according to the Shan Human Rights Foundation. At least 80,000 people crossed the border to northern Thailand. But the Thai government at that time did not allow them to set up shelters or refugee camps. In the end, some Shan people had to build temporary communities along the border, and there are six IDP camps now. But some people remain in the northern region of Thailand and live harmoniously in the area.
Another ethnic groups are those from Karen and Karenni State, who previously fled the invasion of the Myanmar army in 1976 and settled in refugee camps along the western border of Thailand. There are nine refugee camps with about 100,000 people living there.
But their fates are also uncertain as international aid is decreasing and will eventually be cut off given the ongoing Myanmar peace process which is supported by so many countries, despite ongoing armed conflicts.
On the Salween River opposite Mae Hong Son, more than 3,000 members of the Karen ethnic community are also in IDP camps called Ei Tu Hta. They fled the Myanmar military expansion in 2005, but they were barred from entering Thailand.
These camps are also facing aid cuts at the end of this month. In total, there will be around 8,000 people in those camps along the border left to face an unsteady future.
"Food rations in the camp are already insufficient. We try to grow vegetables and keep livestock on our own. However, land here is extremely limited due to security reasons, and proper cultivation such as Karen rotational farming is impossible. We have to struggle through many difficulties. But staying in the camps is far safer than going back", said Hser Htoo Plaw, a leader of Oo Wei Klo IDP camp that provides shelter to thousands. He shared his concern when I visited the camp late last month.
He said people in the camp vowed not to return home as the Myanmar army still has a strong presence there. Repatriation doesn't seem practical for them. Displaced persons in Oo Wei Klo camp were receiving 12kg of rice per month, including some salt, but that will be cut as well.
There were already signs that relief funds for refugees and IDP camps would be cut off. Many foreign organisations that provided food, healthcare and education in Mae Hong Son, Chiang Mai and Tak provinces were told to relocate to Myanmar as the peace process was heralded, though without solid progress.
The situation in remote ethnic areas is very worrisome.
Ironically, the plight of refugees and displaced persons, which used to be a major issue for human rights advocates, appear to have lost ground as Myanmar is now under an elected civilian government. But as I said, little progress has been made in the peace effort.
People are still struggling and uncertainty in their lives prevails, but aid workers who act in the name of human rights seem content to leave them behind.
In both western and eastern parts of Myanmar, the refugee crisis is similarly critical. As the conflict in the western Arakan state worsens, hardship in the eastern part remains dire and forgotten.
Paskorn Jumlongrach is founder and reporter of www.transbordernews.in.th
Paskorn Jumlongrach
Founder and reporter of www.transbordernews.in.th
Passakorn Jumlongrach is founder and reporter of www.transbordernews.in.th
Passakorn Jumlongrach is founder and reporter of www.transbordernews.in.th
By subscribing, you accept theterms and conditionsin ourprivacy policy.

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-20 14:13Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: 
Myanmar state counselor holds talks with ceasefire signatory armed group - Xinhua | English.news.cn

YANGON, Sept. 12 (Xinhua) -- Myanmar State Counselor Aung San Suu Kyi has held talks with U Yawd Serk, chairman of the Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS)/Shan State Army-South (SSA-S), in Nay Pyi Taw, one of the eight signatories to the Nationwide Ceasefire Accord (NCA), Myanmar News Agency reported Tuesday.
This is the first ever such talks during the incumbent government, which took place at the capital's National Reconciliation and Peace Center (NRPC) on Monday.
The talks covered trust building measures, the NCA, education, health, anti-drug matters and development of ethnic national region.
On the same day, the government's peace negotiator U Kyaw Tint Swe, who is the NRPC vice chairman and minister for the Office of the State Counselor, also had discussions with U Yawd Serk on the peace process, economic development and counter narcotics efforts in Shan state, the report said.
In October 2015, Myanmar's previous government initiated the NCA with eight armed groups out of 15, involved in the peace deal with the then government, leaving the seven other non-signatories yet to join in the signing for achieving peace.
Myanmar has held the 21st Century Panglong Peace Conference twice respectively in August 2016 and May 2017 with the latter being able to incorporate a total of 37 adopted principles into a union agreement in the country's peace process.
Chinese naval hospital ship Peace Ark arrives in Malaga, Spain
Photo exhibition on human rights progress in China held in Geneva
Flood wreaks havoc in Dhaka, Bangladesh
16th anniv. of Sept. 11 terror attacks marked in Washington D.C.
China, Pakistan air forces hold joint training exercises
Pic story: Chinese grape and wine expert
Farmers busy with farm work around Bailu across China
Rural children take free lunch in SW China's Guizhou

Title: Myanmar soldiers confess to killing three Kachin refugees - Myanmar | ReliefWeb
Myanmar
Six Myanmar soldiers, including regiment officers, have admitted to killing three ethnic Kachin refugees in the town of Mansi in northern Myanmar’s Kachin state, where the national army is engaged in hostilities with an ethnic armed group, a village official said.
The soldiers confessed that they were responsible for the killings during a hearing at military court on Tuesday in Mansi.
The three male refugees — Nhkum Gam Awng, 31, Maran Brang Seng, 22, and Labya Naw Hkum, 27, — were taken into custody on May 25 by soldiers from Light Infantry Battalion 319 while they were heading back to their refugee camp after gathering firewood near Hka Pra Yang village, sources told RFA's Myanmar Service at the time.
Their bodies were found three days later in nearby Maikaung village, they said.
“They admitted they killed three internally displaced persons,” said Peter Bauk Ja, the administrator of Mung Hkawng village, who attended the hearing. “We don’t know when they will be sentenced.”
Two soldiers, two officers, and a battalion commander from the government army’s 319th Light Infantry Regiment have been charged with murdering the trio, according to media reports.
The three Kachin men who were killed had been detained with two others who were released and returned to their camp after briefly being held, according to a May 30 report by Agence France-Press.
Their bodies, bearing gunshot wounds and signs of torture, were found on May 28 by residents of the camp, home to many of the estimated 100,000 people displaced by clashes between ethnic separatist fighters and government troops in the region, AFP said.
Rights violations
Rights groups have accused both government troops and ethnic rebel soldiers of human rights violations in Myanmar’s conflict zones, including kidnapping, torturing, and killing civilians, and forcing them to work as laborers.
Hostilities between the Myanmar military and the Kachin independence Army (KIA), one of Myanmar's ethnic armed militias, have forced thousands of locals to flee to safety in other parts of the state.
In June, fighting between government soldiers and the KIA forced about 1,000 people to flee the seven wards that comprise the Tanaing gold and amber mining region in Kachin’s Tanaing township. They have been unable to return home, according to the online news journal The Irrawaddy.
A month later, government troops clashed again with KIA soldiers in the state’s Indawgyi region, though no casualties were reported at the time.
Myanmar’s military has been accused of killing civilians and committing other abuses in war-torn Shan state and violence-ridden Rakhine state.
In August 2016, seven soldiers from Light Infantry Battalion 362 admitted to shooting dead five unarmed villagers near a cornfield in volatile northern Shan state and dumping their bodies in shallow graves.
The soldiers had arrived on June 25 in Long Mon village near the subtownship of Mong Yaw looking for ethnic armed troops.
More recently, Myanmar soldiers have been accused of committing atrocities against the minority Rohingya Muslim group in northern Rakhine state in the wake of deadly attacks by terrorists since October 2016.
Reported by Kyaw Soe Lin for RFA’s Myanmar Service. Translated by Khet Mar. Written in English by Roseanne Gerin.
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: No title found


Title: Inside Myanmar's Surprisingly Harsh Heroin Rehab Centres
Newsletters
ByDavid Shaw
Myitkyina, the capital of Kachin state, Myanmar’s most northernly region, doesn’t have it easy. For years it’s been plagued by civil war between the Kachin Independence Army and the Burmese Military, as well as poverty and an international trade in opium and heroin. Due to poor employment opportunities and the low price of the drug, many in Kachin have become addicted to heroin, with an estimated one in every household regularly using the drug.
In response to this growing problem, “Pat Jasan” – a coalition of local Baptist, Catholic and Protestant churches – launched a community based organisation whose goal is to “eradicate all drugs from the Kachin population”. Through a network of camps, Pat Jasan force drug users through a faith-based rehabilitation programme. Their “clients” spend three to six months partaking in daily exercise, prayer and educational activities in an attempt to replace their drug addiction with religion. The organisation is fully funded by donations from local churches and is manned by volunteers.
Despite the seemingly bright community-based effort to help drug users, Pat Jasan’s methods have been criticised as harsh. The group has no legal authority, yet detain people and then lock them in a makeshift “detox room” for two weeks, where they receive no medical attention or care while suffering withdrawal symptoms.
In Myitkyina, local Kachin wash in the Irrawaddy, Myanmar’s largest and most important river.
Kachin youth, who have little education or employment opportunities, are very susceptible to falling into drug addiction. Many who work in the infamous local illegal jade mines can also fall victim.
One of Pat Jasan’s rehab camps, “The Rebirth Rehabilitation Centre”. A group of “clients” sing hymns before morning mass.
Exercise and a game of football is how every day starts for the “clients” of the Catholic-run Rebirth Rehabilitation Centre on the outskirts of Myitkyina.
MG Bawn Hkaw, 23, who has been at the centre for one-and-a-half months helps a visiting Catholic priest give mass to Hkawng Lum, a Pat Jasan client who’s been at the centre for two-and-a-half months. Bawn has previously been to two other Pat Jasan camps, but relapsed both times. He started using hard drugs while at high school.
The narcotics epidemic is exacerbated by the close proximity to the war between the Kachin Independence Army (KIA) and the Burmese Government Military, with many militias using the sale of drugs to fund their armies. Support for the KIA is strong among the local population, who feel that Aung San Suu Kyi’s government does not pay enough attention to the plight of the Kachin.
One of Pat Jasan’s “operations teams”, volunteers from the local area committed to the cause of fighting drugs. Their responsibilities include investigating and arresting drug users and dealers, guarding the rehab centres and recapturing escapees. In early 2016, Pat Jasan volunteers entered a days long stand-off with security forces after attacking and destroying opium crops.
The perimeter wall at the New Life In Christ Centre, one of Pat Jasan’s rehab centres. When detained by Pat Jasan, “clients” are given the choice of either being handed to the police or attending one of these centres for up to six months.
Two of Pat Jasan’s recent arrivals in the “detox room” while withdrawing from heroin. Both have been in for over three days and potentially have a week ahead of them left in the cage. Pat Jasan uses this method with new arrivals to get rid of the physical addiction.
A Pat Jasan “client” whose leg has been put into stocks to prevent him from escaping. He has been using heroin for nine years and is now spending two weeks inside the cell as he comes off the drug, without any medical care being provided.
Although many people praise Pat Jasan’s actions for cleaning the streets of Myitkyina of drugs, others say they are only hiding the problem. Many of their clients are caught and return to the rehab centres multiple times.
@davidjshawphoto
By signing up, you agree to theTerms of UseandPrivacy Policy& to receive electronic communications from VICE Media Group, which may include marketing promotions, advertisements and sponsored content.
ByMohammed QasimandMax Daly
ByManisha Krishnan
ByCamilla PatiniandNick Thompson
ByMax Daly
ByMir Yasir  Mukhtar
ByMax Daly
By signing up, you agree to theTerms of UseandPrivacy Policy& to receive electronic communications from VICE Media Group, which may include marketing promotions, advertisements and sponsored content.
ByShamani Joshi
ByAndrew Haffner
ByZachary  Siegel
ByShamani Joshi

Title: Rohingya are not refugees, nor have they taken asylum… They are illegal immigrants, says Rajnath Singh | India News - The Indian Express
Home Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that criticism against the government for deporting the Rohingya living in the country was uncalled for as the Myanmar government itself was willing to take them back. Rajnath Singh was referring to Myanmar Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi’s remarks that the country will allow the Rohingya to return after a due verification process.
On India’s decision to deport Rohingya, Rajnath said, “Rohingya are not refugees, nor have they taken asylum. They are illegal immigrants.”  The minister was addressing a seminar organised by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). He also said that India would not violate any international law by deporting the Rohingya as it was not a signatory to the UN Refugees Convention 1951.
Earlier this month, Minister of State for Home Affairs Kiren Rijiju had categorically stated that the government is looking for ways to deport over 40,000 Rohingyas living in the country illegally.
“Myanmar se Bharat ghus aaye ye Rohingya refugee nahi hain iss sachchai ko hume samajhna chahiye… Refugee status prapt karne ke liye ek process hota hai aur inmein se kisi ne iss procedure ko follow nahi kia hai..(They have entered India from Myanmar. Rohingya are not refugees, we need to understand this reality. There is a procedure to acquire refugee status and none of them have followed that),” Rajnath was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.
“Human rights ka hawala de kar illegal immigrants ko refugee batane ki galti nahi ki jaani chahiye. (For the sake of human rights, we should not do the mistake of calling illegal immigrants as refugees,” the minsiter added.
The United Nations says more than 420,000 Rohingya have fled to Bangladesh in the face of an army campaign that includes burning of villages and rape.
In his address to the UN General Assembly, Myanmar’s second vice president Henry Van Thio said: “I am happy to inform you that the situation has improved… there have been no clashes since September 5. Accordingly, we are concerned by reports that the numbers of Muslims crossing into Bangladesh remain unabated. We would need to find out the reason for this exodus,” he said. He was speaking in place of Myanmar Counsellor and Nobel Peace Prize awardee Aung San Suu Kyi, who a day earlier delivered a speech calling for patience.
Click here to join The Indian Express on WhatsApp and get latest news and updates
The process of remaking a web series is different from remaking a film. The rules remain the same - ensure local nativity and don't spoil the original. Prime Video's Panchayat became a hit in the Indian OTT space, and now its Tamil remake, Thalaivettiyaan Paalayam, has done things largely right

