Title: Strict new ticketing policy introduced at Machu Picchu | London Evening Standard | Evening Standard
Lifestyle|Travel
SincePeru’sMachu Picchuwas discovered in 1911, it has been a popular tourist spot with up to 2,000 visitors per day in recent years.
Due to its ever-increasing popularity and effects of foot traffic, one of the world’s most famous archaeological sites will now be timestamped, as Machu Picchu has introduced a new ticketing policy.
In 2017, the UNESCO World Heritage site introduced time entry to tackle the amount of people visiting each day, but now they have made entry even stricter with hour-specific time slots.
This means you will need to book a slot between 6am and 3pm and you must arrive within an hour of your entry time or you won’t be allowed to visit. This means if you book the 11am slot, you must arrive before 12pm to be let in. Once in, the four-hour visitation limit still applies, and visitors need to be out by 5:30pm each day.
Tickets can only be booked through a tour operator, online at the official Machu Picchu site or at the designated office at Cusco, Peru.
While visitors have historically been more inclined to book the early morning slots as they’d get more time at the site, there have also been incentives put in place to make the later morning and afternoon slots more appealing. Those who book between 9am to 12pm will now get free access to the on-site museum while those who book from 12pm to 3pm will get free access to the Raqch'i archaeological site which sits just south of Machu Picchu.
If you are planning on visiting Machu Picchu, it is recommended to book your ticket at least four months in advance to secure your spot.
Create aFREEaccount to continue reading
Registration is a free and easy way to support our journalism.
Join our community where you can: comment on stories; sign up to newsletters; enter competitions and access content on our app.
Your email address
Must be at least 6 characters, include an upper and lower case character and a number
You must be at least 18 years old to create an account
*Required fields
Already have an account?SIGN IN
By clicking Create Account you confirm that your datahas been entered correctly andyou have read and agree to ourTerms of use,Cookie policyandPrivacy policy.
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and theGoogle Privacy PolicyandTerms of Serviceapply.
Thank you for registering
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged in
MORE ABOUT
Have your say...
1
Lifestyle
Whatever happened to Amy Winehouse’s ex-husband Blake Fielder-Civil?
2
Politics
Health and care worker visa applications drop 83% after rule changes
3
Showbiz
Below Deck: What Captian Lee and the original gang of characters are doing now
4
London
TfL cyber attack: Thousands of passengers feared to have bank details exposed as teenager arrested
5
Business
Lucky borrowers helped by raft of new mortgage rate cuts on Friday 13th

Title: Amid Renewed Violence In Myanmar's Rakhine State, Arakan Army Returns To Spotlight : NPR
Ashley Westerman
Myanmar Army Maj. Gen. Tun Tun Nyi (left), Maj. Gen. Soe Naing Oo (center) and Maj. Gen. Zaw Min Tun (right) attend a military press conference on Jan. 18. Myanmar's army said it killed 13 ethnic Rakhine fighters after the armed group carried out deadly attacks on police posts.Thet Aung/AFP/Getty Imageshide caption
Myanmar Army Maj. Gen. Tun Tun Nyi (left), Maj. Gen. Soe Naing Oo (center) and Maj. Gen. Zaw Min Tun (right) attend a military press conference on Jan. 18. Myanmar's army said it killed 13 ethnic Rakhine fighters after the armed group carried out deadly attacks on police posts.
In recent weeks, Myanmar has seen renewed violence between security forces and an insurgent group called the Arakan Army. Since fighting broke out in Rakhine state in December, at least 26 military personnel and Arakan Army fightershave diedandsome 5,000 civilians have been displaced, according to the United Nations. It's the group's most prolonged period of violence with the military since its founding a decade ago.
The central government has been trying to broker peace and stop ethnic factions from targeting it for the past 70 years, leading some to call Myanmar's turmoil the world's longest civil war. Here's what to know about the Arakan Army and what the recent uptick in violence could mean for Myanmar's ongoing peace process.
What is the Arakan Army?
In the constellation ofethnic armed groupsin Myanmar dating back to the country's independence from Great Britain in 1948, the Arakan Army is relatively new.
Founded in 2009by Rakhine seeking self-governance, the Arakan Army is thought to have several thousand members. Itclaims to representthe people of Rakhine, an ethnic minority group that views its struggle in the context of a past in which it had its own kingdom and considers its loss a great national tragedy, says Aaron Connelly, a research fellow at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in Singapore.
The Arakan Army "has grown in size very rapidly, it appears to be well-funded and to enjoy a lot ofsupport among Rakhine people," says Connelly.
"A lot of the tensions that we see in Rakhine state today between the Rakhine people and the central authority in Myanmar are about resentment," he says. There's resentment that the country's dominant Bamar ethnic group governs Rakhine state today, and does so in a way, he says, that the Rakhine perceive as heavy-handed.
The Arakan Army has clashed repeatedly with the military — more than 100 times since 2015,according to military officers. Its members are primarily Buddhist and the group's name derives from Rakhine state's original name. An independent kingdom until the late 18th century, Arakan came under British rule from 1826 to 1942 and was one of the most prosperous parts of the British empire in Asia, Yangon-based historian Thant Myint-U told NPR via email.
Although their names are similar, the Arakan Army is entirely separate from theArakan Rohingya Salvation Army(ARSA), another insurgent group active in Rakhine. ARSA is primarily made up of Rohingya Muslim guerrillas and is blamed for attacks in 2016 and 2017 on police posts and military bases, which led to retaliation bysecurity forcesagainst the Rohingya. More than half a million Rohingya fled to Bangladesh after brutal crackdowns in those years.
What are the Arakan Army's goals?
In a recent interview, Tun Myat Naing, chief of the Arakan Army,toldThe Irrawaddynews site that "we wish to keep the sovereignty of our state in our hands." But Connelly notes the group has issued various statements about what it wants over the years, and it's not entirely clear which of those statements most accurately describe its goals today.
"They want increased autonomy or sovereignty for Rakhine state," Connelly says. "They say that they want to be part of a confederation; it's not entirely clear what that means."
When Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, gained independence from Britain, the Arakan — like many ethnic groups — wanted to maintain control over their own land, says Hunter Marston, a Myanmar expert formerly with the Brookings Institution.
Gen. Aung San, the father of Myanmar's current de facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi, tried to bring the country's ethnic groups together, promising various forms of sovereignty to their respective states.
It was, Marston says, "a sort of federal union that never really bore out in practice. So in the early '50s, a lot of these groups took up arms and fought against the central government."
Since independence, Arakanese nationalist feeling has grown, says Thant Myint-U. That sentiment is "grounded in memories of long-ago independence and more recent oppression, isolation and impoverishment," he says.
Rakhine is one of the least developed states in Myanmar and fares poorly on most social development indicators,accordingto UNICEF.
"Since the 1940s, their state has been in steep decline, with each generation poorer than the last," says Thant Myint-U. "Tens of thousands of Arakanese men have migrated overseas or north to work the jade mines, in appalling conditions, near China."
With the beginning of democratic politics in 2010, new Arakanese political parties were able to turn rising nationalist feeling into votes, he says. Arakanese politicians won local elections in 2010 and 2015, butthe ruling party installed its own government at the state leveland didn't allow the Arakanese to take up leadership positions.
"For many Arakanese, there is a sense that democratic politics has betrayed them," says Thant Myint-U. "The Arakan Army has stepped into this vacuum."
Who supports the Arakan Army?
It's not entirely clear where the Arakan Army receives its financial support. A recent report by the International Crisis Group says it isallegedly involvedin the illicit trade ofyaba— methamphetamine — produced in Myanmar and sent into Bangladesh. The Arakan Army denies this.
Connelly says if the group is engaged in illicit trade, it is unlikely to be limited only to drugs.
Why has fighting escalated between Myanmar security forces and the Arakan Army?
In December, the Myanmar military announced a months-long ceasefire across five regions of the country — but Rakhine was excluded.Analysts saythis state was left out because the military doesn't want the Arakan Army "to gain a foothold in the area."
At least 13 members of the Arakan Army and at least 13 security forces have been killed since December,accordingto the military.
On Jan. 18, the Myanmar army classified the Arakan Army as a terrorist organization. Ata news conference, military officers said Suu Kyi ordered them to launch an offensive against the group. She "instructed us to defeat them effectively, quickly and clearly," Maj. Gen. Nyi Nyi Tun said. He also said Suu Kyi suggested she wanted to avoid being accused of religious prejudice for having attacked ARSA's Rohingya Muslim militants but not "Buddhist rebels."
How does the Arakan Army fit into the overall peace process in Myanmar?
As a relatively new group, the Arakan Army wasn't included in the nationalceasefire negotiations that took place from 2011 to 2016,says Connelly.
"And the Myanmar army is not actually seeking — or they're not trying very hard — to include them in that process," he says. "And a big question over the peace process has been whether or not the army would eventually welcome them into the process."
Overall, Suu Kyi has made little progress in pulling together the different groups, says Marston, in spite of her rhetoric promoting national unity. He says the Arakan Army is treated differently than other groups.
Last month, he notes, theArakan Army agreed to talk to the government.
"And yet following that sort of pledge to talk, the Myanmar military continued attacks in Rakhine state targeting the Arakan Army," he says. "So they clearly don't see the Arkan Army as as part of their larger ceasefire negotiations and have signed or pledged four months' ceasefire with different groups excluding the Arakan Army."
Sponsor Message
Become an NPR sponsor

Title: Amid Renewed Violence In Myanmar's Rakhine State, Arakan Army Returns To Spotlight | 
Advertisement
Advertisement

Title: Amid Renewed Violence In Myanmar's Rakhine State, Arakan Army Returns To Spotlight | WAMC
In recent weeks, Myanmar has seen renewed violence between security forces and an insurgent group called the Arakan Army. Since fighting broke out in Rakhine state in December, at least 26 military personnel and Arakan Army fightershave diedandsome 5,000 civilians have been displaced, according to the United Nations. It's the group's most prolonged period of violence with the military since its founding a decade ago.
The central government has been trying to broker peace and stop ethnic factions from targeting it for the past 70 years, leading some to call Myanmar's turmoil the world's longest civil war. Here's what to know about the Arakan Army and what the recent uptick in violence could mean for Myanmar's ongoing peace process.
What is the Arakan Army?
In the constellation ofethnic armed groupsin Myanmar dating back to the country's independence from Great Britain in 1948, the Arakan Army is relatively new.
Founded in 2009by Rakhine seeking self-governance, the Arakan Army is thought to have several thousand members. Itclaims to representthe people of Rakhine, an ethnic minority group that views its struggle in the context of a past in which it had its own kingdom and considers its loss a great national tragedy, says Aaron Connelly, a research fellow at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in Singapore.
The Arakan Army "has grown in size very rapidly, it appears to be well-funded and to enjoy a lot ofsupport among Rakhine people," says Connelly.
"A lot of the tensions that we see in Rakhine state today between the Rakhine people and the central authority in Myanmar are about resentment," he says. There's resentment that the country's dominant Bamar ethnic group governs Rakhine state today, and does so in a way, he says, that the Rakhine perceive as heavy-handed.
The Arakan Army has clashed repeatedly with the military — more than 100 times since 2015,according to military officers. Its members are primarily Buddhist and the group's name derives from Rakhine state's original name. An independent kingdom until the late 18th century, Arakan came under British rule from 1826 to 1942 and was one of the most prosperous parts of the British empire in Asia, Yangon-based historian Thant Myint-U told NPR via email.
Although their names are similar, the Arakan Army is entirely separate from theArakan Rohingya Salvation Army(ARSA), another insurgent group active in Rakhine. ARSA is primarily made up of Rohingya Muslim guerrillas and is blamed for attacks in 2016 and 2017 on police posts and military bases, which led to retaliation bysecurity forcesagainst the Rohingya. More than half a million Rohingya fled to Bangladesh after brutal crackdowns in those years.
What are the Arakan Army's goals?
In a recent interview, Tun Myat Naing, chief of the Arakan Army,toldThe Irrawaddynews site that "we wish to keep the sovereignty of our state in our hands." But Connelly notes the group has issued various statements about what it wants over the years, and it's not entirely clear which of those statements most accurately describe its goals today.
"They want increased autonomy or sovereignty for Rakhine state," Connelly says. "They say that they want to be part of a confederation; it's not entirely clear what that means."
When Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, gained independence from Britain, the Arakan — like many ethnic groups — wanted to maintain control over their own land, says Hunter Marston, a Myanmar expert formerly with the Brookings Institution.
Gen. Aung San, the father of Myanmar's current de facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi, tried to bring the country's ethnic groups together, promising various forms of sovereignty to their respective states.
It was, Marston says, "a sort of federal union that never really bore out in practice. So in the early '50s, a lot of these groups took up arms and fought against the central government."
Since independence, Arakanese nationalist feeling has grown, says Thant Myint-U. That sentiment is "grounded in memories of long-ago independence and more recent oppression, isolation and impoverishment," he says.
Rakhine is one of the least developed states in Myanmar and fares poorly on most social development indicators,accordingto UNICEF.
"Since the 1940s, their state has been in steep decline, with each generation poorer than the last," says Thant Myint-U. "Tens of thousands of Arakanese men have migrated overseas or north to work the jade mines, in appalling conditions, near China."
With the beginning of democratic politics in 2010, new Arakanese political parties were able to turn rising nationalist feeling into votes, he says. Arakanese politicians won local elections in 2010 and 2015, butthe ruling party installed its own government at the state leveland didn't allow the Arakanese to take up leadership positions.
"For many Arakanese, there is a sense that democratic politics has betrayed them," says Thant Myint-U. "The Arakan Army has stepped into this vacuum."
Who supports the Arakan Army?
It's not entirely clear where the Arakan Army receives its financial support. A recent report by the International Crisis Group says it isallegedly involvedin the illicit trade ofyaba— methamphetamine — produced in Myanmar and sent into Bangladesh. The Arakan Army denies this.
Connelly says if the group is engaged in illicit trade, it is unlikely to be limited only to drugs.
Why has fighting escalated between Myanmar security forces and the Arakan Army?
In December, the Myanmar military announced a months-long ceasefire across five regions of the country — but Rakhine was excluded.Analysts saythis state was left out because the military doesn't want the Arakan Army "to gain a foothold in the area."
At least 13 members of the Arakan Army and at least 13 security forces have been killed since December,accordingto the military.
On Jan. 18, the Myanmar army classified the Arakan Army as a terrorist organization. Ata news conference, military officers said Suu Kyi ordered them to launch an offensive against the group. She "instructed us to defeat them effectively, quickly and clearly," Maj. Gen. Nyi Nyi Tun said. He also said Suu Kyi suggested she wanted to avoid being accused of religious prejudice for having attacked ARSA's Rohingya Muslim militants but not "Buddhist rebels."
How does the Arakan Army fit into the overall peace process in Myanmar?
As a relatively new group, the Arakan Army wasn't included in the nationalceasefire negotiations that took place from 2011 to 2016,says Connelly.
"And the Myanmar army is not actually seeking — or they're not trying very hard — to include them in that process," he says. "And a big question over the peace process has been whether or not the army would eventually welcome them into the process."
Overall, Suu Kyi has made little progress in pulling together the different groups, says Marston, in spite of her rhetoric promoting national unity. He says the Arakan Army is treated differently than other groups.
Last month, he notes, theArakan Army agreed to talk to the government.
"And yet following that sort of pledge to talk, the Myanmar military continued attacks in Rakhine state targeting the Arakan Army," he says. "So they clearly don't see the Arkan Army as as part of their larger ceasefire negotiations and have signed or pledged four months' ceasefire with different groups excluding the Arakan Army."
Copyright 2021 NPR. To see more, visit https://www.npr.org.

Be one of the first to know what's coming up on WAMC
See additional subscription options

Title: Myanmar government says Rakhine rebels kill 13 policemen | Daily Mail Online
ByAssociated Press
Published:10:48 EDT, 4 January 2019|Updated:11:37 EDT, 4 January 2019


YANGON, Myanmar (AP) - Thirteen policemen were killed and nine injured in early morning attacks Friday on police outposts in Myanmar's Rakhine state by the insurgent Arakan Army, state media reported.
The Arakan Army is a rebel group seeking autonomy for Rakhine state from Myanmar's central government. It has no links with the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army, a Muslim insurgent group whose similar attacks in 2017 sparked a bloody government counterinsurgency campaign against the area's Muslim Rohingya minority, driving more than 700,000 to flee to neighboring Bangladesh.
While the Muslim ARSA group has become virtually inactive, the Arakan Army, which is aligned with the state's Buddhist population, has taken advantage of the area's instability to increase its military activities after training its guerrillas in regions controlled by other insurgent groups, including the Kachin in northern Myanmar. There has been an upsurge in sporadic fighting between the Arakan Army and government forces since last month.
The state Myanmar News Agency said a total of 250 members of the Arakan Army took part in the attacks on three outposts in Buthidaung and Maungdaw townships. While such numbers are sometimes inflated by the defenders, the rebel group is generally estimated to have several thousand well-armed and organized uniformed members, in contrast to the ragtag ARSA.
The report said two of the outposts were successfully defended by government forces, but seemed to indicate that the third was temporarily overrun and occupied by the rebels, who were finally driven out with the help of air support.
According to the report, the attackers were able to carry away 40 small weapons, ammunition and a walkie-talkie.
A photo posted on social media by Arakan Army sympathizers claimed to show 14 government security personnel captured by the rebels, along with ammunition and other equipment.
___
This story has been corrected to fix spelling of Myanmar News Agency.
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group

Title: 
Restoration process underway following police outposts attack in Myanmar's Rakhine state - Xinhua | English.news.cn

YANGON, Jan. 5 (Xinhua) -- Restoration process is underway after four police outposts were raided by the Arakan Army (AA) on Friday morning in Buthidaung, Myanmar's Rakhine state, an official from Myanmar Military told Xinhua.
"The four police outposts were just to provide security for local ethnic villages and they were not well-defended as the border police stations," he said.
The AA armed group launched attacks on the four police outposts in ethnic Arakan villages of Nga Myin Baw, Kyaung Taung, Ka Htee Hla and Goke Pi in Buthidaung township at 06:45 a.m. local time on Friday.
With the use of two helicopters, the military returned fire and took control of the situation before 10:00 a.m. on Friday, according to the official.
A total of 13 police personnel were killed and nine others were injured in the attack with small arms and bullets reported missing from the outposts, according to the Information Ministry.
On Dec. 12 last year, the non-ceasefire signatory Northern Alliance Ethnic Forces, comprising three ethnic armed groups -- Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA), Ta'ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) and Arakan Army (AA) released a joint statement, expressing their desire to settle military dispute and political matters through dialogue.
In response of the joint-statement, Myanmar military also announced suspension of all its military action against armed groups in operation areas in five military command regions for over four months starting from Dec. 21, 2018 to April 30, 2019.
During the military's non-operation period, ethnic armed groups in respective operation areas are to negotiate for ceasefire and peace with the National Reconciliation and Peace Center, said an announcement of the Commander-in-Chief of the Defense Services.
China holds gathering marking 40th anniversary of Message to Compatriots in Taiwan
China's new lunar rover leaves first "footprint" on moon's far side
Two new Fuxing high-speed trains to be put into service soon
Four-day snow sculpture competition of college students opens in Harbin
Highlights of Nadam Fair in north China's Inner Mongolia
Scenery of Shuhe River at sunset in east China's Shandong
In pics: monkeys in snow
China's landmark Yangtze river bridge reopens to traffic

Title:  Bangkok Post - Muse: Myanmar's militia-run, billion-dollar gateway to China
PUBLISHED : 31 Jan 2019 at 13:45
WRITER:AFP
MUSE, Myanmar: With tinted windows and their militia name emblazoned on the side of their Ford truck, "Pan Say" fighters cruise the sleazy streets of Muse, Myanmar's main gateway to China and awash with weapons and cash from casinos, drugs and sex.
Muse, on the border between China and Myanmar, is an important gateway for trade.
Ten armed groups run the Shan State border town of Muse, which is separated by a shallow river from the gleaming towers of its Chinese counterpart, Ruili.
All are under the tutelage of the same patron: Myanmar's army.
China and Myanmar have an agreement not to station troops along their border.
Instead, Myanmar's army uses the militias as proxies in a long-running conflict between the central state and ethnic rebel groups who operate in the area, including the Kachin Independence Army (KIA) and Taaung National Liberation Army (TNLA).
A fiendishly complicated, decades-old struggle for money, trade, resources and ethnic identity is playing out in Muse.
The Pan Say militia gave AFP a rare snapshot of the shifting alliances and rivalries which have defined Myanmar's frontier areas since its independence in 1948.
Each militia "looks after its own business ... and we look after ours", a senior Pan Say member told AFP as a batch of 30 fresh recruits dressed in fatigues trained in a compound.
They have joined one of Muse's largest militias, which boasts several hundred men, armed with M-16 rifles and Kalashnikovs.
Pan Say insists it is funded by its own jade mines, cigarette factories and karaoke bars, denying knowledge of narcotics or other illegal activities that prosper along the border.
Like other Muse militias, Pan Say accepted a deal in 2009 to come under the military's control in exchange for a degree of autonomy.
As a result, an uneasy truce exists between the militias, who have agreed not to engage in combat unless ordered by the military.
The fighters cast themselves as unconventional but necessary keepers of the peace, accusing the rebel groups they fight against of extortion and racketeering.
Experts are less generous in their definition.
The "wasps' nest of militias" are as much behind the town's illicit economy as the rebels, says independent analyst David Mathieson.
"They drive around toting machine guns, running casinos, peddling yaba (low-grade methamphetamine), all as subcontractors of local security for the Myanmar military."
Meth town
Either way the money keeps flowing.
Legal trade through the town -- rice, fish and electrical goods -- totalled $1 billion between October and December, half of the entire country's land border trade, according to official figures.
But the riches made from the vast quantities of meth, opium, illegal animal parts and jade -- as well as women being sold into marriage in  China -- are likely to dwarf those figures.
Myanmar is now one of the world's largest sources of meth, with precursor chemicals from China feeding labs peppering the restive eastern borderlands, according to the UN's drug and crime agency.
Lorries rumble in both directions along a dirt road to illegal crossing points just outside Muse, under the watchful eye of militiamen of various stripes.
Inside the town, barbed wire-clad walls and stern, gun-wielding guards protect a plethora of casinos, which are suspected of laundering money from both sides of the border.
Hotel rooms offer piles of condoms, while drug dealers buzz around the low-budget brothels, which give the town its reputation for sleaze, serving a transient population of border merchants and long-distance drivers.
And prospects are looking even better for Muse's nefarious trades.
Routes between Muse and Myanmar's west coast are set to improve as investment pours in under China's so-called "Belt and Road" strategy of boosting the infrastructure of key trade partners.
Better transport routes could well give a boost to the town's "illicit profiteering" -- at least in the short-term -- a recent report by International Crisis Group (ICG) predicts.
Collateral damage
While money flows through Muse, little trickles down to its people.
Instead they run a daily gauntlet between the militias, rebels, drug addicts and petty criminals.
"We're scared to go out at night," says builder and father of two Kyaw Zin Latt, 23, who recently moved from the country's south for work.
An NGO provides one of the town's few life-line public services -- a fleet of ambulances.
They retrieved casualties from an attack on a bridge near the border last May, in which 19 people were killed, including 15 civilians.
The offensive by ethnic rebel group the TNLA descended into an eight-hour stand-off with the Pan Say militia.
"A police officer was shot dead beside this building," says the NGO founder Thaung Tun, as he drives cautiously over the bridge.
It is now defended by the army, two different militia groups and the police.
But outnumbered and outgunned, the cops languish far down Muse's pyramid of power.
"There are places that are too dangerous for us to go by ourselves," one police officer laments.
By subscribing, you accept theterms and conditionsin ourprivacy policy.

Title: Business News Today: Read Latest Business news, India Business News Live, Share Market & Economy News | The Economic Times
Get only relevant updates on WhatsApp. No Spam.

10/10
Stock Score
Expected Returns
37.00 %
Stock Recommendation
Strong Buy
Target

Current Price


10/10
Stock Score
Expected Returns
34.20 %
Stock Recommendation
Buy
Target

Current Price


10/10
Stock Score
Expected Returns
31.10 %
Stock Recommendation
Buy
Target

Current Price

September 9
In March 2020, a State Bank of India-led consortium bailed out Yes Bank by infusing Rs 10,000 crore-a move primarily aimed at protecting dep...
India's steel ministry has outlined a decarbonisation strategy requiring $283 billion to make existing steel production green. The plan aims...
India's office market is witnessing a shift, with domestic companies expected to lease 60-65 million square feet between 2024 and 2025. Dome...
The National Company Law Tribunal has approved the acquisition of Radius Estates and Developers by Bridgeport Realtors, a subsidiary of Adan...
GMR Group is planning a significant real estate development around its airports in Delhi, Hyderabad, and Goa. The projects include industria...
The expo and the conference combined represent the most sought-after event of the Oil & Gas industry that is held every year to bring the in...
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Java Programming with ChatGPT: Learn using Generative AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Basics of Generative AI : Unveiling Tomorrow's Innovations
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Generative AI for Dynamic Java Web Applications with ChatGPT
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Mastering C++ Fundamentals with Generative AI: A Hands-On
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Master in Python Language Quickly Using the ChatGPT Open AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Zero to Hero in Microsoft Excel: Complete Excel guide 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Stock Trading
Market 101: An Insight into Trendlines and Momentum
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Markets 102: Mastering Sentiment Indicators for Swing and Positional Trading
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Market 103: Mastering Trends with RMI and Techno-Funda Insights
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Market 104: Options Trading: Kickstart Your F&O Adventure
By - Saketh R, Founder- QuickAlpha, Full Time Options Trader
Astrology
Vastu Shastra Course
By - Sachenkumar Rai, Vastu Shashtri
Data Science
SQL for Data Science along with Data Analytics and Data Visualization
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Web Development
A Comprehensive ASP.NET Core MVC 6 Project Guide for 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Mastering Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and 365
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Marketing
Digital marketing - Wordpress Website Development
By - Shraddha Somani, Digital Marketing Trainer, Consultant, Strategiest and Subject Matter expert
Finance
Financial Literacy - TDS, Budget, Income Tax Act, GST, Indirect tax
By - CA Rahul Gupta, CA with 10+ years of domain experience, trainer
Stock Trading
Introduction to Technical Analysis & Candlestick Theory
By - Dinesh Nagpal, Full Time Trader, Ichimoku & Trading Psychology Expert
Leadership
Business Storytelling Masterclass
By - Ameen Haque, Founder of Storywallahs
Future of Marketing & Branding Masterclass
By - Dr. David Aaker, Professor at Haas School of Business
HR & People Management
Human Potential and the Future of Employment
By - Lynda Gratton, Co-chair of the World Economic Forum Council on Work, Wages and Job Creation, Professor of Management Practice
Strategy
ESG and Business Sustainability Strategy
By - Vipul Arora, Partner, ESG & Climate Solutions at Sattva Consulting Author I Speaker I Thought Leader
Finance
Financial Reporting and Analytics
By - Dr. C.P. Gupta, Professor: Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi
Marketing
Digital Marketing
By - Zafer Mukeri, Founder- Inara Marketers
Thursday, 12 Sep, 2024
The ₹6,560 crore initial public offering (IPO) of Bajaj Housing Finance set multiple records on Wednesday, with the issue being subscribed 64 times on the final day of bidding, underscoring India's booming primary markets.
Samsung India Electronics will lay off over 200 managerial staff, or 10% of employees, as growth slows, said executives aware of the development.
India is set to commence talks with “some countries” on expansion of bilateral flying rights, civil aviation minister Ram Mohan Naidu told ET. He said Indian carriers' interests will be given priority in any such discussion.
Eligible foreign nationals facing financial hardship after the death of a partner can soon apply to have their UK settlement application fee waived. This new rule, effective from October 9, aims to provide a fairer and more compassionate approach for those dealing with grief and financial vulnerability.
In January, Canada announced a temporary cap on study visas for international students, leading to a projected 35% decrease in approved study permits for 2024, with an estimated 364,000 permits issued. The ICEF Monitor reports a 54% drop in new study permit applications in Q2 2024 compared to Q2 2023, with a projected 39% annual decline.
High-wage foreign workers are increasingly avoiding the UK in favor of countries like France and the Netherlands, despite UK government efforts to attract skilled migrants. Data from the first half of the year shows that only 20% of clicks on British job postings from abroad were for high-wage positions, a lower proportion than in most other advanced economies.
Rajinikanth to Mahesh Babu: South Stars Steal The Spotlight at Anant Ambani's Wedding
Explore Goa In The Rains: 10 Must-Do Activities, Places To Visit
Sonakshi Sinha wedding photos out: Actress marries Zaheer Iqbal in civil ceremony
How Four Words from Chiranjeevi Saved Pawan Kalyan's Life
​Mushrooms Can Lower Risk Of A Cancer Diagnosis​​​
What To Eat, What To Avoid During Pregnancy? Follow This ICMR Guide
Want To Live Longer? Watch Your Salt Intake, Advises ICMR
How vegans can get enough protein? What ICMR says
Balakrishna's 5 Controversies. Latest: Actress Anjali Incident
Why These Two Rs 10 Notes Fetched Over Rs 12 Lakhs At Auction?
Magnificent Mango: 5 Beauty Secrets Of This Summer Delight
​Radhika Merchant’s Space Suit Designer For Ambani Pre-Wedding Bash, Has Worked With Jennifer Lopez & Karlie Kloss!​
​Flax Seeds Can Aid In Weight Loss, Improve Gut Heath: Here’s The Best Time To Consume Them​
​NASA Finds 126 Alien Planets! Does This Mean There’s Extraterrestrial Life?​
You Can Enjoy This 5-Day Cruise For Just Rs 5,000. Thanks To Indian Govt
Scandals that destroyed Bollywood celebs' career
​From Vedavid To Vamika, 6 Bollywood Babies With Unique Names​
Blockout 2024: From Taylor Swift To Alia Bhatt, Celebs Are Being Boycotted Online
​6 Foods That Can Make Your Skin Acne-Free​
When Not To Have Almonds
Gainers & Losers: Mamaearth, Kalyan Jewellers among 5 stocks hogged limelight on Thursday
9 famous potato dishes around the world
10 healthy Indian breakfasts for weight gain
8 traditional South Indian dishes for Ganesh Chaturthi
8 signs of a weak immune system
8 foods items to keep cholesterol in control
8 Indian corn dishes one can easily make at home
8 healthy juices for hair growth
8 side effects of consuming too much chia seeds
These 4 F&O stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest
360 One Wam and 2 other stocks closed above VWAP
Zensar Technologies and 5 other stocks close below VWAP
Cummins India and 6 other stocks showing RSI trending up
Positive Breakout: These 3 stocks rose above their 200 DMAs
At multi-year highs: These 5 stocks witnessed 5-year swing high breakouts
Top 9 breakfast ideas you can make in 10 minutes
12 International Tourist Destinations To Visit Under Rs 50,000
Gainers & Losers: Vodafone Idea, Tata Motors among 8 stocks in limelight on Wednesday
iPhone 16 phone models: What’s new and what’s same?
8 healthy and delicious Indian dishes for people with diabetes
9 under 20 minute healthy lunch dishes for office people
8 natural home remedies for grey hair
8 quick and healthy breakfasts to kickstart your day
8 potato curry dishes to try at home
8 healthy smoothies post-workout
These 6 F&O stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest
SJVN among 4 stocks with White Marubozu Pattern
JK Cement and 3 other stocks close below VWAP
Did Kamala Harris' debate jewellery double as secret earpiece? Internet explodes with conspiracy theories
​Rain lashes Delhi, parts of North India to get heavy rain till September 14: Precautions, safety measures, and other details
Trump vs Harris: What body language revealed about their debate styles
Ayushman Bharat health insurance for senior citizens: Benefits, eligibility and other details
Offbeat places in India for a amazing experience
6 Vistara co-branded credit cards:Till when can you use Vistara cards?
What is the PPF interest rate for Jul-Sep quarter
6 stocks to watch out for an upside of up to 39.2%
10 quotable quotes from Harris and Trump's first US Presidential Debate
The dangers of the no-sleep challenge: Why sleep is essential for your health
Trending Now
Hot on Web
In Case you missed it
Top Calculators
Top Prime Articles
Top Searched Companies
Top Performing MF
Top Story Listing
Top Commodities
Top Definitions
Top Slideshow
Top Videos
Latest News
Follow us on:

Title: 
Myanmar destroys 2.8 hectares opium fields in central region - Xinhua | English.news.cn

YANGON, Jan. 25 (Xinhua) -- Myanmar authorities have destroyed 2.8 hectares opium fields in the hilly areas of Ngaphe township, Magway region, the official Global New Light of Myanmar reported Friday.
The opium fields, wiped out by a combined team of police on Wednesday, covered those in three villages in the township.
The authorities also destroyed 57.4 hectares' opium fields in villages in three other townships of Hopong, Pinlaung and Hsihseng in eastern Shan state in last December.
The opium destruction is part of the government's efforts to stem opium production in the country.
Myanmar saw a significant decrease in opium poppy cultivation in 2017 to 41,000 hectares which was 25 percent down from the 55,500 hectares recorded in 2015, according to the Myanmar Opium Survey 2017.
Myanmar's eastern Shan state topped the areas with a drop of 37 percent, followed by southern Shan state with a drop of 29 percent of opium poppy cultivation reduction, but there were less than 3 percent or 7 percent in conflicted areas such as Northern Shan state and Kachin states.
Couple working in rail dedicated to work during Spring Festival travel rush
Chinese VP attends 2019 WEF annual meeting in Davos
China-aided development center for disabled children handed over to Mongolia
Protest against partial gov't shutdown held in Washington D.C.
Winter scenery of Keketuohai scenic spot in NW China's Xinjiang
Leafbird gathers honey from cherry flowers in Fuzhou, China's Fujian
Flowers blossom on Great Cold solar term
Chinese people's memory of Spring Festival travel rush

Title:  Army chief threatens to sue media groups over 'false reports'
ForgotUsernameorPassword

Date
The dailyReport(MENAFN- Asia Times) The Myanmar military is threatening to takelegalaction against media organizations that report 'unverified' stories about security issues and armed conflicts, The Myanmar Times reported on January 1.The newspaper quoted an announcement from Senior General Min Aung Hlaing, commander-in-chief of Myanmar's armed forces, as saying that news about the military 'should be published only after being verified by the ministers for Security and Border Affairs and General Staff colonels of military commands.'The announcement cited what it claimed were 'false reports' about clashes between Palaung rebels and the military in northern Shan State on December 24, days after the military announced a four-month pause in fighting in the north.It also noted reports that the Shan State Army of the Shan State Progress Party, which has not signed the government's 'Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement' (NCA), was attacked by a joint force of the Myanmar Army and the Shan State Army of the Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS), which has signed the NCA.According to another media report, which the military also claimed was 'false', a combined force of the Myanmar Army and the Pa-O National Liberation Organization, a tiny outfit that has signed the NCA, attacked the RCSS in southern Shan State.The military said those reports came from 'unreliable sources', not from the government, and 'could harm the peace process.'The Myanmar Press Council, which mediates conflicts between the authorities and the media, has urged the military to provide contact details of spokespeople who can handle questions from journalists.The Myanmar Times said that its 'attempts to contact the spokesperson of the military's True News team regarding the announcement were unsuccessful.'The dailyReport  Must-reads from across Asia - directly to your inbox     Share  Tweet  Linkedin  Email   Asia Unhedged Myanmar Media groups warned Senior General Min Aung Hlaing Palaung rebels Shan State 'clashes' 'False reports' Shan State Army Pa-O National Liberation Organization National Ceasefire Agreement peace process Myanmar Press Council Military's True News team 'True News'  CommentsMENAFN0201201901590000ID1097911755
The newspaper quoted an announcement from Senior General Min Aung Hlaing, commander-in-chief of Myanmar's armed forces, as saying that news about the military 'should be published only after being verified by the ministers for Security and Border Affairs and General Staff colonels of military commands.'
It also noted reports that the Shan State Army of the Shan State Progress Party, which has not signed the government's 'Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement' (NCA), was attacked by a joint force of the Myanmar Army and the Shan State Army of the Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS), which has signed the NCA.
The military said those reports came from 'unreliable sources', not from the government, and 'could harm the peace process.'
The Myanmar Times said that its 'attempts to contact the spokesperson of the military's True News team regarding the announcement were unsuccessful.'
MENAFN0201201901590000ID1097911755
MENAFN0201201901590000ID1097911755
Legal Disclaimer:MENAFNprovides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.

Tags
Comments
Category
Date
Daily(English)Daily(Arabic)All()

World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data.
Contact UsClick here
Copyright © 2000MENAFN.All rights reserved.
Design & Devleopment byMENAFN

Title: Myanmar cracking down on opium, but conflicts push drug trade | Drugs News | Al Jazeera
UN report shows less land being used to grow opium poppies, but conflicts hampering eradication programme.
The amount of land being used to grow opium poppies continues to decline inMyanmar, but ongoing conflicts are hampering efforts to stamp out the trade at a time when the illicit drug economy is becoming increasingly diverse, according to a newUnited Nationsreport.
Some 37,300 hectares of land in the country was under poppy cultivation last year, down from 41,000 in 2017, the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) said in its Myanmar Opium Survey 2018 on Friday.




Nearly 90 percent of all the opium was grown in the northeastern Shan state, where government forces continue to battle ethnic rebels.
“The biggest drops in cultivation have been seen in areas that have had relatively good security,” the UNODC said.
“However, in parts of Shan and Kachin experiencing a protracted state of conflict, high concentrations of poppy cultivation have continued – a clear correlation between conflict and opium production.”
Myanmar has been battling conflicts in its border regions for decades and the unrest has long underpinned the drugs trade; in the mid-1990s, Golden Triangle, which includes the border areas of Laos and Thailand in addition to Myanmar, had the dubious distinction of being the centre of the world’s opium and heroin trade.
Since then, government eradication efforts have helped tackle the problem, but the conflicts continue to provide the kind of conditions that allow the illicit drug trade to thrive.
Myanmaris still the world’s second-biggest producer, after Afghanistan, and itremains the major supplier of opium and heroin in East and Southeast Asia, as well as Australia.
The UN drugs and crimes agency said civil strife last year also made it difficult for the government to access opium-growing areas, obstructing efforts to destroy poppy fields.
About 2,605 hectares of cultivation was eradicated in 2018, 26 percent less than the previous year, it said. UNODC data shows eradication has been in decline since 2015.
The agency noted that economic problems, including a lack of job opportunities and income inequality, also contributed to the resilience of the drug trade amid increasing efforts bytraffickers and organised criminals to diversify the market.



The UN drugs and crimes agency pointed out that of the 11 countries in the region that shared data with it, nine now say methamphetamine is their biggest drug of concern, compared with four decades ago when heroin was their main worry.
“There has been a sharp increase in the supply of, and demand for, synthetic drugs and particularly methamphetamine across East and Southeast Asia and neighbouring regions,” the UNODC said. “The downward trend in opium cultivation and related heroin production needs to be understood in this context.”
The agency’s report came days after the International Crisis Group said that the long-running conflict in Shan state had turned the area into a hub for the global trade in crystal methamphetamine or ice, with the business controlled by local armed groups.
“The trade, which now dwarfs legitimate business activities, creates a political economyinimicalto peace and security,” the group said in a report on Monday.
“It generates revenue for armed groups of all stripes.”
Crisis Group also said the militias and other armed groups who control both the areas of production and the main trafficking routes have no incentive to demobilise, because the weapons, territorial control and absence of state institutions are essential to the maintenance of their drug income.
The trade also attracts transnational criminal groups and allows “a culture of payoffs and graft to flourish” as officials are bribed for protection, support or to turn a blind eye to what is happening.
This “adds to the grievances of ethnic minority communities that underpin the 70-year old civil war“, the group’s research found.
In its survey, UNODC noted that while fewer hectares of land was being cultivated with poppies in Shan and Kachin, the concentration of fields was highest in the parts of the states where the conflict was most protracted.
In Kachin, most opium cultivation took place in areas controlled by the Kachin Independence Army, while in North Shan it was in areas under the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army; in South Shan, the Pa-O National Liberation Army, the Restoration Council of Shan State and the Shan State Army South, and in East Shan, the People Militia’s Force.
“There is a direct connection between drugs and conflict in the country, with the drug economy supporting the conflict and in-turn the conflict facilitating the drug economy,” the UNODC said. “Providing solutions to the conflict requires breaking this cycle.”
Resolving the issue will also require regional cooperation, Jeremy Douglas, regional representative for the UNODC in Southeast Asia and the Pacific, told Al Jazeera.
The manufacture of methamphetamines and ice require precursor chemicals, which are often smuggled into the country from China, while the drugs themselves need reliable trafficking networks to reach consumers beyond Myanmar’s borders.
“The region needs a shared strategy,” Douglas said. “Myanmar will not be able to solve the situation alone.”









Follow Al Jazeera English:

Title: What does China’s Belt and Road have to do with Myanmar’s meth problem? | South China Morning Post
If Myanmar is to break an addiction to methamphetamine production that has seen it become one of the world’s largest suppliers there is one country above all others that must act: China.
That’s according to a report released on Tuesday that highlighted how complexities in the relationship between the two countries are being exploited by armed separatists who are producing thousands of tonnes of the drug in the “Golden Triangle” of Myanmar’s Shan state, an area that is already the world’s second-largest heroin-producing region.
Chemicals used in the production of the drug have been flowing over the state’s border with China, according to the NGO International Crisis Group (ICG), which says China should take a tougher line against the drug-producing armed separatist groups seen as being under its influence.
China has a complex relationship with the groups, many of which arose out of the splintering of the Communist Party of Burma and claim an ideological and cultural kinship with the People’s Republic of China. As Patrick Winn, an expert on organised crime in Southeast Asia, says: “You can see the fallout from the Chinese civil war written into the landscape of the drug trade today.”

Title: 
	Myanmar-Bangladesh spat has China smiling  - The Hindu BusinessLine

+ 1,439.55
+ 470.45
+ 116.00
+ 37.00
+ 5.00
+ 1,439.55
+ 470.45
+ 470.45
+ 116.00
+ 116.00
+ 37.00
Get businessline apps on
Connect with us
TO ENJOY ADDITIONAL BENEFITS
Connect With Us
Get BusinessLine apps on
Comments
READ LATER
Rohingya issue The speedy resettlement of refugees is in India’s interest
One of India’s most remarkable diplomatic achievements has been that it has settled its maritime boundaries with all its eastern neighbours. This has been achieved, not only through bilateral agreements on maritime boundaries with Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Thailand and Indonesia, but also tripartite agreements to determine tri-junctions, with Myanmar and Thailand, Indonesia and Thailand and across its eastern and western shores, with Sri Lanka and Maldives.
Even arriving at an agreement to demarcate our maritime frontiers with Pakistan will not be difficult, once the land boundaries are demarcated. In any case, there have rarely been any maritime tensions with Pakistan.
The readiness to delineate its maritime boundaries in accordance with international law gives India the reputation of being a responsible power, across its eastern neighbourhood. This is in marked contrast to China, which has maritime boundary disputes with Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Vietnam, the Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia and Indonesia.
India readily implemented a verdict by an International Tribunal, which went against its claims on its maritime boundary with Bangladesh. China has, however, violated the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea by rejecting a similar decision, on its maritime boundary with the Philippines. Beijing has also used military intimidation to enforce its maritime claims on countries like the Philippines and Vietnam. This difference in behaviour between a benign India and a territorially avaricious China has been noted across its eastern neighbourhood and even internationally.
Another important factor in dealing with our eastern neighbours has been the development of cooperation across our land borders, with Myanmar and Bangladesh. We have settled our land borders with both these countries and have moved forward in strengthening trade, investment and connectivity cooperation with them. Both Bangladesh and Myanmar have been helpful and cooperative in dealing with Indian separatist groups, which seek to operate from their soil.
Tough action by Sheikh Hasina forced armed separatists and their leaders like Paresh Barua of the ULFA, to move out of Bangladesh, and seek refuge in areas of Myanmar, where the writ of the Myanmar government is at best, tenuous. Prospects for such cooperation have been augmented, as Bangladesh and Myanmar welcome increasing regional cooperation in BIMSTEC.
A crackdown by the Myanmar Army on Muslim “Rohingyas” in Myanmar’s Rakhine Province, has led to over 7,00,000 Muslim Rohingya refugees from Myanmar fleeing to, and imposing a huge economic burden, on Bangladesh. To make matters worse, the repatriation of refugees is becoming harder than expected.
Despite prolonged negotiations and promises of aid for refugee resettlement from India, China and Japan, there are just not adequate facilities for the displaced and traumatised refugees to return. Relations between Bangladesh and Myanmar have worsened, with Myanmar alleging that Rohingya refugees are being armed in Bangladesh, amidst angry denials by Bangladesh.
These developments are occurring when China is blatantly interfering in Myanmar’s internal affairs, while ostensibly professing to promote contacts between the Myanmar government and armed insurgent groups, operating across the China-Myanmar border. There are today 25 armed insurgent groups in Myanmar, with 15 actively resorting to armed insurgency.
The most powerful of these groups, the United Wa State Army (UWSA), operates from China, across the Shan State, in western Myanmar. India’s concerns, however, arise from the fact that the UWSA is now allied to a “Northern Alliance,” comprising armed groups linked to the Kachin Independence Army (KIA). The KIA operates from the Kachin State, bordering Arunachal Pradesh. It has links with the Rohingya-dominated Arakan Rohingya Solidarity Army in Myanmar’s Rakhine State, bordering India.
Moreover, members of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-K), involved in armed insurgency in Manipur and Nagaland, also routinely move across the Myanmar-China border.
Growing Chinese influence in Kachin State, which borders Arunachal Pradesh, undermines Myanmar’s sovereignty. It also adversely affects India’s security interests. The ‘United National Liberation Front of Western South East Asia’ (UNLFW) is a front of armed Indian separatist groups, comprising the United Liberation Front of Assam, the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, the Kamatapur Liberation Organisation and the National Democratic Front of Bodoland. It operates out of Myanmar’s Kachin State.
Its members and leaders like ULFA’s Paresh Barua reside near the border town of Ruili, in China’s Yunnan Province, with total freedom to enter and leave China’s Yunnan Province. The UNLFW was responsible for the ambush of 18 Indian soldiers in Manipur in one of the deadliest attacks against Indian security forces for decades. The UNFLW also operates out of Myanmar’s Sagaing Division bordering Manipur.
As Myanmar faces growing international pressures, because of its alleged persecution of Rohingyas, it is turning increasingly to China for support. Not surprisingly, China is taking advantage of this, by attempting to compel Myanmar to accept it as a mediator, for working out a political settlement with the trans-border armed, ethnic groups.
China is also demanding Myanmar’s consent to go ahead with the massive, but ecologically damaging Myitsone Dam hydroelectric project. The Myitsone Dam’s construction has been strongly opposed by the people of Kachin State. Given its location, the electricity produced by this project will be largely consumed in China’s Yunnan Province. The dam project has also been controversial in Myanmar, because of the environmental impact on its huge flooding area and its location, barely 60 miles from the earthquake prone Sagaing faultline.
Japan, like India, appears to recognise the dangers of pushing Myanmar to a corner, on the Rohingya issue, because it will make the country even more dependent on Chinese support in the UN. The focus of attention of the international community should be on rehabilitation of refugees, rather than propagandistic posturing on “human rights”.
Both India and Japan would be well-advised to work jointly, in both Myanmar and Bangladesh, to persuade Aung San Suu Kyi and the military in Myanmar and Sheikh Hasina in Bangladesh, to amicably settle the problem of repatriation and resettlement of refugees.
The SAARC is now non-functional, thanks to Pakistan’s sponsorship of terrorism. BIMSTEC is, however, showing promise, complementing connectivity and trade. Differences and tensions between Myanmar and Bangladesh should not be allowed to worsen, as they will undermine our efforts to promote regional cooperation in our eastern neighbourhood.
The writer is a former High Commissioner to Pakistan
Comments
BACK TO TOP
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by ourcommunity guidelinesfor posting your comments.
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of TheHindu Businessline and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.
Terms & conditions|Institutional Subscriber

Title: MSN
