Title: Non-ceasefire Ethnic Groups release statement on 21st Panglong Conference | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
The 3rd plenary meeting of non-ceasefire ethnic armed groups who have not yet signed Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement (NCA) released a statement which says they will exchange their views and discuss their position on the forthcoming 2nd meeting of 21st Century Panglong Conference.
The official statement released by the United Wa State Army/Party (UWSA/UWSP) says the plenary meeting organized and sponsored by them started on February 22 at their HQ at Panghsang.
Ten non-ceasefire armed ethnic groups were invited to the meeting and eight of them will attend.
Delegations attending include Kachin Independence Organization/Army (KIO/KIA), Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA), Palaung State Liberation Front/ T’ang National Liberation Army (PSLF/TNLA), Shan State Progressive Party/Shan State Army (SSPP/SSA), Eastern Shan State National Democratic Alliance Army (PSA/NDAA) and United League of Arakan/Arakan Army (ULA/AA).The official statement further says that under the Karenni National Progressive Party (KNPP) and New Mon State Party (NMSP) cannot attend but will submit their position papers.This 3-day meeting will end on 24 February.
Delegations attending include Kachin Independence Organization/Army (KIO/KIA), Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA), Palaung State Liberation Front/ T’ang National Liberation Army (PSLF/TNLA), Shan State Progressive Party/Shan State Army (SSPP/SSA), Eastern Shan State National Democratic Alliance Army (PSA/NDAA) and United League of Arakan/Arakan Army (ULA/AA).
The official statement further says that under the Karenni National Progressive Party (KNPP) and New Mon State Party (NMSP) cannot attend but will submit their position papers.
This 3-day meeting will end on 24 February.

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: No title found


Title: Malacca man plans privately-funded aid mission to Myanmar's Arakan region | New Straits Times


Title: Malacca man plans privately-funded aid mission to Myanmar's Arakan region | New Straits Times


Title: Rohingya State
Statemay refer to:
State.ie(formerlyStateMagazine) is anIrishwebsite and formerly a monthly music magazine, which launched in April 2008 and ceased to print in January 2009 having published a total of ten issues. The magazine continues online and was voted Best Music Site in 2008 and Best Web Publication in 2010 in the Irish Web Awards. Originally the concept of the magazine involved a hard copy of which there was a charge to purchase, however after six issues it was decided to make the magazine's content free both online and in print. The first issue, April 2008, appeared on Irish shelves on 6 March 2008 and featuredMichael StipeofR.E.M.on the cover. This immediately garnered comparisons between the new magazine's similarities withHot Presswho featured Stipe on their cover at the same time, a move widely thought to be an attempt by Hot Press to stifle State's status as a serious 'alternative' to the more established local magazine. At a price of €5.50,Statecharged €2 more thanHot Press.
Statewas a station on theEnglewood Branchof theChicago 'L'. The station opened on November 3, 1905 and closed on September 2, 1973  as part of a group of budget-related CTA station closings.

Title: Call to 'Save Rohingya Muslims' from scholars  - Doğruhaber
Masjid al-Aqsa Imams and Jerusalem scholars made a written statement explaining that the Rohingya Muslims who were subjected to the massacre should be rescued.
“The Rohingya Muslims in the Arakan state of Myanmar today are exposed to massacres and religious cleanliness of all kinds of tiredness in front of the eyes of international organizations, Arab and Islamic states.” said in their statement.
"The Palestinian and Jerusalem Muslims will not remain silent for persecution of their brothers in Arakan, despite the fact that they are subjected to all kinds of persecution of Israeli occupation power," explains that the Rohingya Muslims' only reason for these tribulations is their commitment to Islamic belief.
On October 9, 2016 in Rohingya, border police stations were attacked, 13 Burma soldiers, 29 people were killed. The Myanmar army was attacked and 600 people were taken into custody. About 400 detained Muslims were martyred, many women were raped and the villagers were burned.
Human Rights Watch (HRW), headquartered in New York, released a report for massacres and attacks against Muslims, said that campaign has launched by Burma's troops, life-threatening arson, killing and rape against Rohingya.(ILKHA)
The Iraqi Ministry of Defense signed off an agreement On Friday, to purchase the Cheongung-II Air Defense Systems, produced by the South Korean defense company LIG NEX1, worth $2.78 billion.
The Union of Scholars and Madrasahs (ITTIHADUL ULEMA) has announced that it will organize the 9th annual “Meeting of Scholars” in Diyarbakır on October 5-6, 2024.
Sitemizde yayınlanan haberlerin telif hakları gazete ve haber kaynaklarına aittir..

Title: No title found


Title: A quirk of history - The Statesman

It is strange that the sufferings of Rohingya, an ethnic Muslim group of Rakhine province in Myanmar, which is separated…
Rangan Dutta |February 19, 2017 11:41 pm
It is strange that the sufferings of Rohingya, an ethnic Muslim group of Rakhine province in Myanmar, which is separated from Mizoram by a small segment of the Chin Hills, have largely gone unreported in the North-east media even after Jammu and Kashmir chief minister’s announcement in January that the state had provided shelters to 5,700 of them. They possibly might have crossed over to India through the porous borders of the North-east with Bangladesh along the Mizoram-Cachar-Tripura sector.
Rakhine, known for centuries as Arakan, with Akyab, now known as Sittwe  is a  major deep sea port. It evokes memories of past trade links of Assam with Rangoon, now Yangon, through Chittagong and Sittwe ports, which carried tea and brought back Burma rice. Until the 1930s, it was the main source of supply for sustenance of Assam’s vast tea garden labour community and other non-farming groups.

In fact, the disruption in supply of Burma rice later prompted then Assam government, early in the 1940s, to start the “grow more food campaign” by getting lands reclaimed for rice cultivation, which entailed bringing in land-hungry peasants, mostly Muslims from  eastern Bengal.

Advertisement
Now, by a quirk of history, the Kaladan Multi Modal Transport Project, is designed to connect the North-east once again with  Sittwe through construction of a Kaladan Inland waterway, a road connecting Sittwe to Lawngtlai in Mizoram and improvement of the Sittwe deep sea port. Once these are  ready, possibly by 2019, the $480 million project will open the direct sea trade from Kolkata  to the  North-east and from there to the Association  of the South-east Asian Nation countries through Sittwe port.
The fact that India is financing the project, while Myanmar makes land available for the 129-km highway in that country and facilitates improvement of the  Sittwe port and navigability of the Kaladan river, indicate the strategic importance of the Kaladan project for both India and Myanmar to expand trade and technological cooperation.
Once trade picks up at Sittwe, it might even create an incentive for Bangladesh to grant surface transit facility to Chittagong port from the North-east. Indeed the Kaladan project is the first Indo-Myanmar strategic initiative to restore the pre-1947 vibrant regional economy that encompassed east and North-east India, Myanmar, Malaysia and Thailand. And, therefore, its early completion and  smooth functioning thereafter are vital for revival of the old trade links and progress of the sub-region.
From this perspective, the continuing civil strife in Rakhine and violence against Rohingyas are matters of concern for the North-east, as it may  impact the Kaladan project. The Army’s crackdown in Rakhine following the  “9th October”Rohingya militants attack on the border posts  near  Muangdaw, a town of northern Rakhine, killing nine Myanmarese border guards, led to mass arrests, torture and killing of at least 86 Rohingyas , also burning and destruction of their villages. Thousands of Rohingya were  forced to move north to seek shelter in Bangladesh where they are not really welcome.
In Rakhine, a full-scale Rohingya insurgency has begun, supported by foreign radical Islamic groups, which as reported in the Western media, have been training Rohingyas in guerrilla warfare and also supplying them with modern weapons .This is bound to have repercussions in the east and the North-east. Analysts see the hand of Pakistan behind this and also little chance of an early resolution of the conflict, on the following grounds.
Firstly, the  roots of the Rohingya problem lie deep in history and the refusal of post-colonial Burma to accept the demographic reality did not help matters. No doubt, there was migration but entirely caused by the “extractive” colonial mode of production based on cheap migrant labour.
The Arakan vegetation varies from tropical and sub- tropical to temperate, Alpine and valley lands. For centuries it was a powerful independent kingdom that periodically dominated southern part and even received tributes from Dacca and Murshidabad and often hosted Portuguese pirates.
During the Mughal period, trade and cultural contacts of Arakan with Bengal thrived and Islam spread to Arakan from Bengal. Shah Shuja, son of Shahjahan, sought shelter in Arakan after his defeat in the battle of succession to Aurangzeb only to be massacred later with his family; and a dargah is possibly still in Rakhine and visited by many Muslims.
Thus the Muslim presence in Arakan is old. Much later in 1783 Arakan was conquered by King Bodawpaya and made a part of the Third Burmese empire, which brought the Burmese border to Bengal Presidency, the engine powering the British East India company in India. However,  the control of Mandalay over Arakan was short-lived as the latter  was incorporated into the British domain following the Burmese defeat in the first Anglo-Burmese war (1824) and it was placed under the Bengal Presidency.
The colonial phase of Arakan history bears remarkable similarity with the North-east  experience, whi-ch saw  the same movement of mig-rant labour for extraction of natural resources and to run administration essential for extractive activities, which caused demographic change s in Assam. However, the state policy to the Rohingyas right from 1948 and, especially after the 1962 Army take over, was the refusal to accept the reality of historic presence of Rohingya Muslims in Myanmar.
Instead,  the entire community has been branded  “illegal Bengali migrants”  from Bangladesh and that has led to the conflict. The Rohingya are a stateless people in their own home where they lived for centuries and the stand of the Myanmar government is untenable from a human rights perspective. The plight of the Rohingya therefore has attracted global attention and sympathy.
While there could be some migration after 1935, when Burma was separated from India,  but even such people and their descendants, who were born in Myanmar, are entitled to citizenship in a modern state. Interestingly,  the state recognises some Muslim groups as citizens but not over a million Rohingya who are not even included in 135 sub- categories of eight major  “national ethnic races” and, therefore, they do not exist in official records.
Their presence is seen only when they face atrocities or resist oppression. The Rohingya problem is part of a bigger issue of the political identity of other ethnic groups of Arakan who consider themselves different from the majority Burman. Its  armed wing, the Arakan Independence Army,  is part of Northern Alliance, a group of several such ethno-centric militias fighting for substantial political space within Myanmar, even when their stated goal is independence. The Rohingya are thus caught in this internal power game involving 20 ethnic insurgencies, which  only shows the complexities of formation of a modern nation state in Myanmar, which is emerging from a multi-religious and ethnic colonial state.The Rohingyas suffer from an added disadvantage as their proximity to Islamic Bangladesh gives credence to the apprehension that once granted political space, they might demand partition of Rakhine — a repeat of the Partition, which is totally unacceptable to the Buddhist majority.
While the Rohingyas are in a bind, the government at Naypyidaw has not been able to take a bold initiative to resolve the Rohingya problem. It is basically a part of the unfinished task of nation-building that  General Aung San began at the Pangong conference with all ethnic groups in 1948 for reconciliation within the newly-independent  Burma.
Over half a century of military rule saw destruction of governance on the basis of rule of law and separation of executive from judiciary and an orderly form of district administration designed to address local issues of governance that Burma, like India, inherited.
And, while India could retain it because of democracy,  albeit with some aberrations, the military junta, which still occupies seats in the legislature reserved for the military and a has a decisive say in administration of provinces under the 2008 constitution, destroyed it to an extent that presently allows little scope for decentralised governance capable of meeting the aspirations of its diverse “ geo-political minorities”.  That is, ethnic groups which are “minorities” in the country but majority in their provinces and hence draw their political strength from their hold over the land.
There is thus hope for the Rohingya only if the international community could prevail upon Myanmar to adopt a sensible approach to their problem. But  even to earn this they have to severe their links with Islamist extremism to establish their case.
A major lesson of the post World War II development experience is that economic progress of a nation is a product measurable in terms of development indicators  as well as a process that must be inclusive and doesn’t exclude any group. Nothing impairs  development more than insurgency. It is time Myanmar, under the leadership of Aung San Suu Kyi, dismantled the dysfunctional military-dominated state and established an inclusive state with space for all, including the Rohingyas for sustainable peace and progress.
The writer is a Retired IAS Officer of the Assam-Meghalaya Cadre and has served as a Scientific Consultant in the Office of the Principal Scientific Advisor to the Government of India.

Advertisement
The Border Security Force (BSF) North Bengal Frontier organised a felicitation ceremony to honour its athletic team for securing the top position in a recent competition.
The Waqf (Amendment) Bill, 2024, which is currently being scrutinised by a Joint Committee of Parliament (JCP), has stirred a hornet’s nest. The government claims that the proposed amendments to the original Waqf Act are intended to bring transparency, efficiency, and accountability in the management and administration of over 8.7 lakh Waqf properties spread across India.
Day 2 of the 14th Hockey India Junior Men National Championship 2024 saw thrilling action as Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal, Manipur, Mizoram and Punjab put their strong foot forward in the tournament and won their respective matches.
Advertisement

PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENT, ALWAYS IN SESSION
AddressThe Statesman Net Private LimitedStatesman House, First Floor 148 Barakhamba RoadNew Delhi – 110001(+91) (011) 41605781, 41605958
© 2023, thestatesman.com | All rights reserved

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-20 14:06Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: News | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: Ethnic militias decide not to sign Myanmar government’s cease-fire agreement - Myanmar | ReliefWeb
Myanmar
A group of ethnic militias decided on Friday not to sign the Myanmar government’s nationwide peace pact on the last day of their three-day summit at the headquarters of the country’s strongest ethnic rebel force, but instead formed a committee to discuss a “new path to peace,” a military official from the conference said.
Leaders from seven ethnic militias that have not signed the government’s October 2015 nationwide cease-fire agreement (NCA)—including the Kachin Independence Organization (KIO), Shan State Army-North (SSA-N), Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA)—and Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), attended the conference which began Wednesday.
The meeting, hosted by Wa and Mongla ethnic groups from the mountainous region of eastern Myanmar’s Shan state on the border with China, was held at the headquarters of the United Wa State Army (UWSA)—Myanmar’s largest nonstate militia—in Pangkham, the administrative capital of the militia's territory.
Col. Ta Phone Kyaw, general secretary of the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), said the participants agreed on nine points, which included not signing the NCA, but rather come up with a new way to forge peace.
“Having a nine-point agreement is something through which we can show our ethnic groups’ unity despite sustaining offensive attacks from government military,” he said.
Eight ethnic armed groups signed the NCA in October 2015. Other militias did not endorse the pact because they objected to its lack of all-inclusiveness or because they were—and continue to be—engaged in hostilities with Myanmar’s military.
“We think that the government military needs to stop its offensive attacks and hold political dialogue,” Ta Phone Kyaw said.
The newly formed committee will try to hold discussions with national government and military representatives to determine what the new approach will be, he said.
Peace process losing momentum
On Thursday, UWSA chairman Bao Youxing told delegates at the meeting in Pangkham that “a new path to peace” is necessary because the government’s efforts to get other ethnic militias to sign the NCA have lost their momentum, Agence France-Presse reported, citing a leaked version of his speech as the source.
The civilian-led government plans to hold the second meeting of the 21st-Century Panglong Conference of peace talks in March.
But Ta Phone Kyaw said the non-NCA signatory groups cannot yet say if they will participate in the summit.
Ethnic leaders said they will try to resolve political problems through political means and discuss with government representatives the 15 points that the UWSA submitted during the first round of the Panglong Conference last August and September.
UWSA delegates walked out of the first round of peace talks because they were designated as observers rather than participants.
Myanmar’s de facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi has been leading efforts to end decades of civil wars between ethnic armed groups and the military and forge peace. But ongoing skirmishes in Kachin and Shan states in the country’s north have threatened to derail the process.
Reported by Thiha Htun for RFA’s Myanmar Service. Translated by Khet Mar. Written in English by Roseanne Gerin.
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Myanmar: NCA non-signatories meet in Wa enclave amid fears of peace process ‘stagnation’ - Myanmar | ReliefWeb
Myanmar
By Naw Noreen
Ethnic armed groups that are not signatory to the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement (NCA) on Tuesday kicked off a meeting at the United Wa State Army’s Panghsang headquarters as a spokesperson for one of the groups lamented a “stagnation” in Burma’s peace process.
The three-day meeting, hosted by the country’s largest ethnic armed group, will conclude on Thursday and is being attended by delegations from NCA non-signatories including the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA), Arakan Army, Kachin Independence Army, Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army and a renegade faction of the Democratic Karen Benevolent Army led by Saw San Aung.
TNLA spokesperson Mong Aik Kyaw told DVB this week’s gathering marked the third meeting of the NCA non-signatory groups, with the agenda focussing on issues surrounding Burma’s peace process, including ongoing conflict between some of the ethnic armed groups in attendance and government troops.
“We have had a couple meetings in Panghsang prior to this, to discuss the political environment concerning the ethnic armed groups. The latest meeting aims to talk about a stagnation in the peace process and the continuation of hostilities; an increase in the Burmese Army’s offensives in ethnic regions,” said Mong Aik Kyaw.
The meeting at the UWSA headquarters in Shancomes about a week after it was announced that the second iteration of the 21st Century Panglong Conference — the National League for Democracy government-branded high-level peace forum — would be delayed. Originally due to convene on 28 February, the summit has been pushed back to sometime in March.
It is not yet clear whether NCA non-signatories will be invited to attend the conference. Only eight out of approximately 20 non-stated armed groups involved in the NCA negotiating process — or in active conflict with the government — have signed the accord.
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Myanmar
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: No title found


Title:  Bangkok Post - The path of resistance
After decades of armed conflict, the  Shan people still show a spirit of steadfast resiliency on their 70th National Day
PUBLISHED : 19 Feb 2017 at 04:00
NEWSPAPER SECTION:Spectrum
WRITER:Wichan Charoenkitatpakul
Two weeks ago, in a remote Myanmar town near the Thai border and a base for the Shan State Army (SSA), the ethnic Shan people came together to celebrate their fight for independence.
The SSA invited several press representatives to cover Shan State National Day, the 70th anniversary of the army's founding date, alongside the 60th birthday of SSA commander Lt Gen Yawd Serk. Political leaders and Shan people alike flocked from far-flung parts of Myanmar and Thailand to attend the festive day, a defiant statement to the world about the state's right to sovereignty.
The mountainous Shan State has a long history of armed conflict with the Myanmar government over claims to political autonomy in the ethnically diverse nation.
On Feb 7, 1947, Shan leaders made their first landmark political move when they gathered in the town of Panglong to declare themselves a self-determining state. In the time since, violent battles between the Myanmar government and the SSA have broken out periodically.
A series of ceasefires have been brokered to temporary effect. The most recent agreement was signed on Oct 15, 2015.
By the Feb 7 Loi Tai Leng celebration, the attendees -- including casual visitors, vendors and merchandisers -- seemed only excited to be in the once tension-ridden area.
Many Shan have fled to Thailand from the troubled state for fear of violence.
But for the annual National Day, most make the trip to their family's hometown and go back to their roots.
A CALL TO DISARM
Our Spectrum photographer arrived in Shan State on Feb 5. Driving up the hilly incline to Loi Tai Leng, he saw straightaway that vendors had turned the town into a thriving, tourist-friendly scene, with traditional Shan-style clothes and handicrafts being sold on the street.
A soldier stationed at a state checkpoint informed Spectrum that many guests had already arrived for the special day. The traffic headed for the mountain town was starting to get heavy. But the small dirt road could accommodate many vehicles, he said.
Four armed Shan State personnel guarded a series of checkpoints on the dusty dirt road to Loi Tai Leng. Every vehicle and passenger was inspected before passing through.
Our photographer was told the road marked the line between Shan State and Thailand.
A few years ago, the Thai government seized control of the road, banning the construction of new buildings in the area. Though they remain in control of the area, they let vendors set up stalls during the week for National Day -- after which they would be swiftly dismantled.
One day before the celebration, Shan State flags and balloons could be seen popping up all over the area. Several Shan arrived dressed up in traditional costumes, including their trademark multi-coloured cotton sarongs, streaming into town in their pickup trucks.
The Shan people seem to uphold a resilient spirit despite several decades of heavy conflict.
In the vast space set aside for the festivities, dozens of young people could be seen decorating the area in bright cloths and light bulbs. Music played out across the grounds, with people joining in by dancing. Shan rock bands got up to perform some catchy tunes. Some chanted out Shan-language poetry. Some prepared prizes for various games.
Some Karen and Mon people even came to show solidarity with the Shans.
In the evening, some people headed back to the city. Some had travelled as far as from Bangkok to attend.
"But for those who could not attend the Loi Tai Leng event, small events were organised in their respective communities to mark the National Day instead," said one festival attendee.
CAUSE TO CELEBRATE
On the morning of Feb 7, celebrations kicked off with a parade, as is customary for National Shan Day. The only difference about this year was that there no weapons in sight.
In past years, soldiers have patrolled the events with their guns on full display, a loaded reminder of the army's power. But this year the army wanted to change their approach.
"The parade this year symbolised the hope for future peace," said one Shan soldier.
"We didn't want to focus on showing off our weaponry."
Lt Gen Yawd Serk, the most powerful member of Shan State's political world, read a speech addressing the dream of national unity. He called out the Myanmar government for failing to abide by the principles of the 1946 Panglong Agreement, recognising the equality and self-determination of the Shan State.
Later Yawd Serk spoke with reporters in a building nearby an army training facility. Clad in his army uniform, he maintained an air of calm as he fielded reporters' questions.
He stated that the SSA hosts the annual National Day for three main reasons -- firstly, to draw attention to the historic date that the Pangdong Agreement was signed several decades ago.
Secondly, and more importantly, as Yawd Serk noted: "We want the new generation [of Shan] to learn about our state's history, and see that we are a separate nation from Myanmar."
Thirdly, he stated, he wants the next generation of Shan to understand that the state's current struggles stem specifically from the Myanmar government's betrayal of the Pangdong agreement.
He was asked to reflect on the future of the Shan State after some recent changes in Myanmar's political landscape.
The state is one of a handful of ethnic groups that recently made new ceasefire agreements with the central government.
"After the formal peace talks in 1988 [one of in a series of between the government and ethnic groups], neither side has done much to push the process forward," he said.
Asked about how the peace talks have changed since the National League for Democracy, the party of Aung San Suu Kyi, was voted to power in 2015, he answered: "There are several factors delaying peace talks now. The problems in Myanmar are not simply limited to those between Aung San Suu Kyi's government and ethnic groups.
"There are many problems in Myanmar. We understand the weight of this and would like her to take her time in decision making."
If anything, he only asks for the Shan State to be treated as a legitimate political body.
"We are a legal group," he insisted. "But after the recent 2015 ceasefire, one of the big obstacles we faced was negotiating the right constitutional amendments. We had to try to recognise each other's legitimacy for the first time in a long time -- we'd been fighting with the government for over 60 years. We had to believe in each other."
When asked if Ms Suu Kyi has a different negotiating style than that of former president General Thein Sein, he replied: "Yes, it is different. Thein Sein was a part of the military so his management style was fast and efficient. After Aung San Suu Kyi came to power, things became more slow."
On the new Myanmar constitution, which passed with a referendum in 2008, he noted: "I am not an expert in constitutions. However, if the government writes a constitution and ethnic groups or armed groups are left of conversation, this is no good. If we agree on ceasefire and reconciliation, the government has to follow up by opening channels for us to take part in the constitutional amendment process."
To create real peace in the violence-riddled Shan region, Yawd Serk advocates going back to the principles of the Pangdong Agreement, which he hopes to do at the upcoming Feb 28 ceasefire talks.
"To engage in real political negotiations today, we cannot avoid the Pangdong Agreement -- it's the only way to start reconciling … If there's no Pangdong, we would not be what we are today."
He adds: "The best political system in Myanmar would be a federal one that gives autonomy to each state."
Still, he agrees that peace is a bullet point listed high on everyone's agenda.
"Regardless of what group you're affiliated with -- the Myanmar army or ethnic groups -- all share a desire to work towards peace. But we need a new approach to making people understanding each other."
taking a stand: Hundreds of Shan State soldiers take part in a parade to celebrate the 70th Shan State National Day at Loi Tai Leng, a town and army base along the Myanmar-Thailand border. Wichan Charoenkiatpakul
commander in chief: Lt Gen Yawd Serk is the most influential political figure in Shan State. Wichan Charoenkiatpakul
scene of festivity: Loi Tai Leng, the site of a big Shan State National Day celebration this year. The road leading to town was seized by Thai authorities a few years ago and remains controlled by them to this day. Wichan Charoenkiatpakul
on guard: Soldiers stationed at checkpoints along the once conflict-ridden road to Loi Tai Leng.
line of duty: In a symbolic nod to the 2015 ceasefire agreement, soldiers do not carry guns this year.
traditional dress: A Shan girl wears the ethnic group's signature colourful costume.
By subscribing, you accept theterms and conditionsin ourprivacy policy.

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: Clearing land mines requires building trust: JMC | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
Despite the ceasefire pact signed in 2015 between the government and eight ethnic armed groups, land mine clearance continues to lag. The Joint Ceasefire Monitoring Committing (JMC) said that only “trust” between parties can resolve the impasse and allow clearance operations to finally get under way.
“[Land mine clearance] has already been agreed to in principle. But in order to implement this agreement, negotiations must be held with the ethnic armed groups. That is what we are waiting for,” said U Min Zaw Oo, program director of the JMC.
As part of the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement signed by eight groups in 2015, the signatories agreed to stop utilizing land mines, and cooperate on clearance campaigns.
IDPs from Kutkai, Kyaukme, Theinni and Namtu townships in northern Shan State cannot return to their villages due to land mines.U Min Zaw Oo said that mine clearance programs are anticipated to be the most expensive post-conflict projects, but while technical and financial support has been offered, the clearance operations remain stymied by politics.Major Sai Oo, of the Restoration Council Of Shan State and a member of the Shan State JMC, attributed delays to irregular meeting schedules.IDPs from Kutkai, Kyaukme, Theinni and Namtu townships in northern Shan State cannot return to their villages due to land mines.“We [the Shan State JMC] have not had regular monthly meetings due to budget difficulties, conflicting projects and responsibilities, and shifting time tables. So we have been unable to start implementing mine clearance,” he said.According to Colonel Wunna Aung, secretary of the Union-level Joint Monitoring Committee (JMC-U), a budget for mine clearance has already submitted to the Joint Coordinating Body for Peace Process Funding (JCB), and per the program’s plan, a test run is supposed to be conducted in Kayin State in April.According to U Min Zaw Oo however, the JMC’s responsibility is not to implement the mine clearance program, but to hash out a policy for it in negotiation with the ethnic armed groups and the Tatmadaw.Myanmar is one of the few countries in the world to continue laying active land mines. According to the United Nations Myanmar Information Management Unit, seven out of the country’s fourteen states and regions are contaminated with mines and explosive remnants of war.Refugees and internally displaced persons have cited land mines as a central concern preventing them from returning home. Residents displaced from Mong Hsu and Loilin townships in southern Shan State, and Kutkai, Kyaukme, Theinni and Namtu townships in northern Shan State cannot return to their villages due to land mines.Myanmar is ranked third in the world for the number of annual land mine casualties, with 419 people reported as dying and 3156 people reported as injured between 1999 and 2015, according to the Landmine Monitor’s 2016 report.Translated by Aong JaenehEdited by Laignee Barron for BNI
IDPs from Kutkai, Kyaukme, Theinni and Namtu townships in northern Shan State cannot return to their villages due to land mines.
U Min Zaw Oo said that mine clearance programs are anticipated to be the most expensive post-conflict projects, but while technical and financial support has been offered, the clearance operations remain stymied by politics.
Major Sai Oo, of the Restoration Council Of Shan State and a member of the Shan State JMC, attributed delays to irregular meeting schedules.
IDPs from Kutkai, Kyaukme, Theinni and Namtu townships in northern Shan State cannot return to their villages due to land mines.
“We [the Shan State JMC] have not had regular monthly meetings due to budget difficulties, conflicting projects and responsibilities, and shifting time tables. So we have been unable to start implementing mine clearance,” he said.
According to Colonel Wunna Aung, secretary of the Union-level Joint Monitoring Committee (JMC-U), a budget for mine clearance has already submitted to the Joint Coordinating Body for Peace Process Funding (JCB), and per the program’s plan, a test run is supposed to be conducted in Kayin State in April.
According to U Min Zaw Oo however, the JMC’s responsibility is not to implement the mine clearance program, but to hash out a policy for it in negotiation with the ethnic armed groups and the Tatmadaw.
Myanmar is one of the few countries in the world to continue laying active land mines. According to the United Nations Myanmar Information Management Unit, seven out of the country’s fourteen states and regions are contaminated with mines and explosive remnants of war.
Refugees and internally displaced persons have cited land mines as a central concern preventing them from returning home. Residents displaced from Mong Hsu and Loilin townships in southern Shan State, and Kutkai, Kyaukme, Theinni and Namtu townships in northern Shan State cannot return to their villages due to land mines.
Myanmar is ranked third in the world for the number of annual land mine casualties, with 419 people reported as dying and 3156 people reported as injured between 1999 and 2015, according to the Landmine Monitor’s 2016 report.
Translated by Aong JaenehEdited by Laignee Barron for BNI

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: Fleeing the Shells of War, Kachin Civilians Struggle Against Freezing Cold in North Myanmar · Global Voices
Stay up to date about Global Voices and our mission. See ourPrivacy Policyfor details.Newsletter powered by Mailchimp (Privacy PolicyandTerms).
See all those languages up there? We translate Global Voices stories to make the world's citizen media available to everyone.
Kachin civilians have set up a camp in the China-Myanmar border to escape the renewed hostilities between the Kachin Independence Army and the Myanmar army. Photo by Myo Min Soe / The Irrawaddy
Thisarticleby Myo Min Soe and Nan Lwin Hnin Pwint is from The Irrawaddy, an independent news website in Myanmar, and is republished by Global Voices as part of a content-sharing agreement.
The text refers to the local war involving the military of the Myanmar government and the Kachin Independence Army. Despite the ongoing peace process initiated by the government which came to power last year, various armed ethnic groups across Myanmar are still engaged in an armed conflict with the military of the national government. These wars have produced arefugeecrisis. The article below illustrates theimpactof the war on the civilian population
Nearly 2,000 internally displaced people (IDPs) arrived at Shait Yang village in Laiza District, an area controlled by the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), on January 21, 2017. These IDPs came from the Zai Awng and Hkau Shau camps in Waingmaw Township.
They had to flee the camps in darkness on January 19 when artillery shells—fired in a battle between the Myanmar Army and KIA—rained down around their camps. These civilians rushed into Shait Yang village, which is situated on the Myanmar-China border. They expected that Shait Yang would be safe because there were no soldiers there, and because the Chinese and KIA had an agreement not to deploy soldiers too close to the frontier. An IDP and refugee relief committee struggled to assist the new arrivals.
The weather offered no help—the area is one of the few in Myanmar with snowfall. At night, the temperatures dropped to -4 degrees Celsius (25 degrees Fahrenheit). On January 25, when The Irrawaddy visited, some residents in the camp lacked clothes warm enough to protect them from the bitter cold. Some built fires to stay warm.
“My legs are killing me. They are numb due to the cold,” said 60-year-old Laphai Zau Ra, who wore only a worn-out blue sweater. He said that he’d had no time to grab other clothes when he ran for his life, away from the artillery shells at Zai Awng.
Another IDP, Kawt Mai, said she was afraid of the nighttime because the temperatures were becoming extreme.
“I have never experienced this kind of cold in my life,” she said. “It seems very long when I wait for the day to break.”
The refugee camp is situated in one of the few places in Myanmar with snowfall. Photo by Myo Min Soe / The Irrawaddy
A Kachin refugee trying to get warm in the camp. Photo by Myo Min Soe / The Irrawaddy
Kachin civilians gathering firewood to survive the bitter cold temperature. Photo by Myo Min Soe / The Irrawaddy
Children help their families in gathering firewood around the camp. Photo by Myo Min Soe / The Irrawaddy
Almost 2,000 fled their villages after recent skirmishes between the Kachin Independence Army and the Myanmar army. Photo by Myo Min Soe / The Irrawaddy
Kachin children playing in the camp. Photo by Myo Min Soe / The Irrawaddy
Kachin civilians who fled artillery attacks now struggle against the bitter cold temperatures in an IDP camp in Shait Yang, Laiza District. Photo by Myo Min Soe / The Irrawaddy
Photo by Myo Min Soe / The Irrawaddy
Global Voicesstands out as one of the earliest and strongest examples of how media committed to building community and defending human rights can positively influence how people experience events happening beyond their own communities and national borders.
Please consider making a donation to help us continue this work.
Donate now
Authors, pleaselog in »
Name (required)
Email (will not be published) (required)
Website
Subscribe to comments on this post via email



Δ
Stay up to date about Global Voices and our mission. See ourPrivacy Policyfor details.Newsletter powered by Mailchimp (Privacy PolicyandTerms).
Global Voices is supported by the efforts of our volunteer contributors, foundations, donors and mission-related services. For more information please read ourFundraising Ethics Policy.
Special thanks to our manysponsors and funders.
Please support our important work:
This site is licensed asCreative Commons Attribution 3.0. Please read ourattribution policyto learn about freely redistributing our workSome Rights Reserved
Stay up to date about Global Voices and our mission. See ourPrivacy Policyfor details.Newsletter powered by Mailchimp (Privacy PolicyandTerms).
Global Voices is supported by the efforts of our volunteer contributors, foundations, donors and mission-related services. For more information please read ourFundraising Ethics Policy.
Special thanks to our manysponsors and funders.
Please support our important work:

Title: War elephants still exist. But only in one forbidding place. - The World from PRX
Kachin Independence Army rebels ride elephants toward the front line in Myanmar in April, 2012.
There was a time when the most fearsome sound in warfare was not the crack of a rifle or the eerie hum of a drone.
It was the shriek of an elephant, tusks slick with blood, skulls crunching underfoot.
War elephants tend to conjure up Iron Age battles, those archaic campaigns in which hordes dismembered other hordes with arrows and blades. They were exotic cavalry for long-dead empires: Carthage and Macedon, the Mughals and the Khmer.
But there is one corner of the planet — and only one — where war elephants persist into the 21st century.
That place is Myanmar. Not central Myanmar, where selfie-snapping tour groups get herded through golden temples.
War elephants trod through a more forbidding patch of the country: the northern Kachin State, where modernity is held back by war. There, in remote hilltops abutting China, mankind’s 4,000-year-old war elephant tradition is kept alive.
The upholders of this custom obey no government. They are rebels known as the KIA, short for Kachin Independence Army.
The KIA are among Asia’s largest guerrilla factions. Their namesake ethnic group, the Kachin, was Christianized by American missionaries in the 1800s. They inhabit an area roughly the size of Portugal that is rich with jade, gold and timber.
The KIA defends its native turf against domination by Myanmar’s military. They rely on mortar shells, rusty assault rifles, 10,000 fighters (includingwomen) and a little-known corps of about four dozen elephants.
“You’ll mostly find them in remote areas. Places where cars and trucks cannot go,” says Col. James Lum Dau, a foreign affairs specialist who has served in the KIA for decades. “In the deep jungle, an elephant is the only way to bring in supplies. There is no other way.”
*****
War elephants come in two forms. The most frightening version is the combat elephant.
This is the creature “used in classical and medieval times to charge an enemy’s front lines,” saysJacob Shell, an assistant geography professor with Temple University who has extensivelystudied war elephants.
Ancient rulers — from Alexander the Great to Egyptian pharaohs — used elephants as organic tanks. Their inch-thick skin is extremely hard to penetrate. Swordsman who tried often got trampled flat. Or worse yet, skewered by tusks, sometimes outfitted with metal spikes.
Beyond raw power, war elephants also bring psychological terror to the battleground.
A trumpeting pachyderm may sound majestic at the zoo. But when there are no fences to hold it back, and that elephant wants to kill you, its bellows are positively nauseating.
This is the sort of gore and horror conjured by the phrase “war elephant.” But it would be a highly misleading way to imagine the KIA’s tusked cavalry.
The words “war elephant” shouldn’t imply that “the KIA is making these elephants fight and murder,” Shell says. “This is not true. The KIA’s elephants lead pretty good lives overall.”
The KIA’s elephants are purely logistical. They don’t stomp on enemies’ ribs. They move stealthily — well, stealthily by elephant standards — along secret jungle routes with cargo on their backs.
“They can carry pretty much anything,” says Col. James Lum Dau. “Rice, rations, medicine, weapons. Anything you would normally carry by car.”
*****
Kachin State, mired in war for much of the past century, is hard to traverse by car. For starters, there are few roads. Nor is there much electricity or many hospitals and schools.
This development void is a casualty of war. For decades, Myanmar’s army has shelled Kachin villages and blasted rebel positions with attack choppers. In recent months, the strikes have beenunrelenting.
But even if the war stopped tomorrow —and it won’t— this place would be difficult to modernize. It is both mountainous and pounded by hard rain for much of the year.
It’s the sort of landscape that imperial governments often try and fail to fully subdue. As in Appalachia or Tibet, high-altitude, impassible terrain fosters cultures that cherish independence. The Kachin are no exception.
While Myanmar’s troops roll around in noisy vehicles, the rebels slink through untamed forests. So do their massive pack animals.
Asian elephants “are evolved to be mobile in precisely these sorts of conditions,” Shell says. “They’re happy in the rain, don’t get stuck in mud — the musculature in their feet prevents this — and can ‘fuel up’ by eating the bamboo shoots and other nutritious vegetation they encounter as they traverse the landscape.”
An encounter with a KIA war elephant, however, is exceedingly rare. Rajeev Bhattacharyya, an Indian journalist, is among the few who’ve had the pleasure.
While traveling around the unruly India-Myanmar border, he stumbled across a KIA unit trailed by elephants.
Armed with rifles and machetes, the guerrillas were seeking wild elephants in hopes of capturing a few new recruits — essentially drafting more of the beasts into their war.
The Kachin elephant handlers were friendly but guarded. “But they did say that the demand for elephants is huge,” Bhattacharyya says, “perhaps because of the ongoing war.”
*****
Not so long ago, in a similar landscape, another Southeast Asian guerrilla faction relied on elephants to elude invaders.
Loaded down with rice sacks and ammo, pachyderms supplied the Viet Cong in their struggle against US forces. Mud trails in Vietnam would destroy a jeep’s chassis. But they were easy to traverse on elephant back.
Still, the communist forces found that elephants were easily spooked by gunfire. According to one former People’s Army of Vietnam officer, Lt. Pham Van Phan: “They’re not easy to manage … especially when there’s fighting going on.”
In an account preserved in the book“War Elephants”by John M. Kistler, the Vietnamese officer notes that troops can become deeply devoted to these animals. They would hesitate to abandon their elephants even during intense battles.
American forces, however, were not so sentimental. US fighter jets and attack choppers would often rain down munitions on any elephant suspected of aiding the communists.
A New York Times story from 1966 tells of such a massacre: “United States Marine pilots also strafed a column of eleven pack elephants … five of the animals were killed and five others seen to fall.”
Once the US-Vietnam War ended, there were practically no war elephants in service around the world — except for the guerrilla zones in Myanmar.
These conflicts, which pit indigenous guerrillas against Myanmar’s army, have simmered since the 1960s. The nation’s recent transformation from dictatorship to democracy has done little to tame these wars.
In fact, Myanmar’s wars aregetting worse.
Army strikes in the unruly hinterlands have actually intensified since a2015 general election, widely celebrated as the end of tyranny in Myanmar. The military is even trying to build astockpile of drones.
As these wars persist, the elephants soldier on.
Today, there are no proper combat elephants left. They were rendered helpless centuries ago by cannons. Historical accounts indicate that an elephant will survive a few musket-fired bullets. But not a cannonball.
Once assault rifles came along in the 20th century, the combat elephant’s fate was sealed. An Asian elephant is literally as big as a barn. They make easy targets for even the clumsiest recruit with an AK-47.
While battle elephants are no more, Myanmar, also called Burma, is a fitting last stand for its less-deadly counterpart: the logistical war elephant.
Myanmar was perhaps the last place where combat elephants went head-to-head with soldiers on the battlefield.
The year was1825and the beasts belonged to a millennium-old Burmese royal dynasty. They were helping the royals fend off a distant invader: British imperial troops.
This resistance ultimately failed. The British brought a weapon the Burmese had never seen — rockets — and the elephants were slaughtered in deafening bursts of flame.
Sign up for The Top of the World, delivered to your inbox every weekday morning.
The World is a public radio program that crosses borders and time zones to bring home the stories that matter.
Produced by
Thanks to our sponsor
Major funding provided by
©2024The World from PRX
PRX is a 501(c)(3) organization recognized by the IRS: #263347402.

Title: MSN
