Title: KIO leaves UNFC steering the ethnic armed alliance a shakeup | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
The call into question for the existence of the ethnic alliance begins with when Kachin Independence Organization (KIO) whose leader is the current-president of the United Nationalities Federal Council (UNFC), forwarded its resignation to leave the ally last week, said Burma observers.
The KIO has submitted its resignation letter to leave the UNFC last week, whose name has been withheld, told the Shan Herald Agency for News (SHAN).
KIO and SSPP are two EAOs from northern regions of Burma who have attended the UWSA-led Panghsang ethnic submits in recent months. The two armed organizations have a close relationship with northern alliance armed groups—Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA), Arakan Army (AA), and Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) as they are active geographically on the same trans-region.
Does the KIO alone leave UNFC; and how about if Shan State Progress Party (SSPP) would also leave?“I think UNFC is founded on the principle of “political allies” it does not help them at the negotiation table with its counterpart Burma army; they have been cornered and pressed; they have been crushed into pieces”, said U That Hmu, an ex-student army combatant and now a Lu Baung Thit (Democratic Party for New Society) officer.Nevertheless, Shan State Progress Party/Shan State Army (SSPP/SSA), a key UNFC’s ally the military-alliance affairs officer Maj-Gen Sai Htoo has told to media recently that they will not leave UNFC. However, some observers raise an eye on the need to keep watching as SSPP/SSA has close relationships with northern allied ethnic armed organizations.While the government is in a high hope and assume that the five members of UNFC—the Karenni National Progressive Party (KNPP), the New Mon State Party (NMSP), the Arakan National Council (ANC), the Wa National Organization (WNO), and the Lahu Democratic Union (LDU) would be given a good chance to sign the nationwide ceasefire agreement (NCA), all of their central executive committees have been busy with their ongoing high level meetings.“NMSP’s meeting will come to an end today, 8 May; KNPP is on the tenth of this month. The decision of signing NCA is depending on the outcome of those meetings.” NMSP holds that signing of the NCA shall be done by the consent of all members under the umbrella-term of UNFC, not an individual organization. “There will be a meeting between the Delegation for Political Negotiation (DPN), a negotiation team formed by UNFC and the government’s Peace Commission (PC) within May 14-18. By then, we will get to see a better picture of how signing the NCA would go,” said a Burma-ethnologist Nai Banya Aung from Mon News agency.On the other hand, the ethnic military allies headed by UWSA is yet to come up with their new approach proposal to peace as they have rejected the NCA, and the government has denounced the motion and insisted on the 6 May that negotiation is acceptable only if follow the NCA path to peace. Meanwhile, the UNFC’s proposal of 9-point policy has been agreed only on “principle,” not yet fully accepted. Most members of UNFC whose bases are active in southern Burma is known to have come closer to the signing of NCA are NMSP and KNPP, quoting Burma analysts as saying.“Wouldn’t it be possible that the WNO, a member of UNFC is being persuaded by the UWSA for re-integration?” asked U Maung Maung, an ex-BCP combatant, northern region and ethnic affairs study.Among the Wa people, ex-BCPP (Burmese Communist Programme Party) members were known as “red Wa”, while the Wa who did not integrate with BCPP became “white Wa”. Therefore, no strange that if WNO, the white Wa leaves UNFC and becomes united with UWSA, the red Wa. The LDU, on the other hands, has a strong link with UWSA. The LDU’s troops have been closely active with UWSA’s 171 Military Zone or otherwise known as Monghsat region.Curiosity is that if Arakan National Council/Arakan Army (ANC/AA) will sign the NCA or will follow the UWSA-led new political approach to peace, whose fellows United League of Arakan/Arakan Army (ULA/AA) is an ally, yet remains to be seen. KNPP, although less military manpower, yet able to stand on their own feet.Nevertheless, NMSP who is taking a leadership role of UNFC/DPN is rather challenging. Geographically, the NMSP is largely active amidst of not only within reach of Burma military, but with also some other NCA-signatories Border Guard Force (BGF) troopers. Therefore, the NMSP may have not much choice but swallow their bittersweet.In the meantime, the political challenge for NMSP and KNPP being their request to update the NCA treaty with the 9-point proposals. If the government and military insist ‘no amendment’ to the original NCA can be made, what they would do? And if in case of military challenge is imminent, what is their alternative?We can conclude that under any circumstance, the remaining five members of UNFC to sign the NCA is, however, unforeseeable at least for now.By Shan Herald Agency for News (SHAN)
Does the KIO alone leave UNFC; and how about if Shan State Progress Party (SSPP) would also leave?
“I think UNFC is founded on the principle of “political allies” it does not help them at the negotiation table with its counterpart Burma army; they have been cornered and pressed; they have been crushed into pieces”, said U That Hmu, an ex-student army combatant and now a Lu Baung Thit (Democratic Party for New Society) officer.
Nevertheless, Shan State Progress Party/Shan State Army (SSPP/SSA), a key UNFC’s ally the military-alliance affairs officer Maj-Gen Sai Htoo has told to media recently that they will not leave UNFC. However, some observers raise an eye on the need to keep watching as SSPP/SSA has close relationships with northern allied ethnic armed organizations.
While the government is in a high hope and assume that the five members of UNFC—the Karenni National Progressive Party (KNPP), the New Mon State Party (NMSP), the Arakan National Council (ANC), the Wa National Organization (WNO), and the Lahu Democratic Union (LDU) would be given a good chance to sign the nationwide ceasefire agreement (NCA), all of their central executive committees have been busy with their ongoing high level meetings.
“NMSP’s meeting will come to an end today, 8 May; KNPP is on the tenth of this month. The decision of signing NCA is depending on the outcome of those meetings.” NMSP holds that signing of the NCA shall be done by the consent of all members under the umbrella-term of UNFC, not an individual organization. “There will be a meeting between the Delegation for Political Negotiation (DPN), a negotiation team formed by UNFC and the government’s Peace Commission (PC) within May 14-18. By then, we will get to see a better picture of how signing the NCA would go,” said a Burma-ethnologist Nai Banya Aung from Mon News agency.
On the other hand, the ethnic military allies headed by UWSA is yet to come up with their new approach proposal to peace as they have rejected the NCA, and the government has denounced the motion and insisted on the 6 May that negotiation is acceptable only if follow the NCA path to peace. Meanwhile, the UNFC’s proposal of 9-point policy has been agreed only on “principle,” not yet fully accepted. Most members of UNFC whose bases are active in southern Burma is known to have come closer to the signing of NCA are NMSP and KNPP, quoting Burma analysts as saying.
“Wouldn’t it be possible that the WNO, a member of UNFC is being persuaded by the UWSA for re-integration?” asked U Maung Maung, an ex-BCP combatant, northern region and ethnic affairs study.
Among the Wa people, ex-BCPP (Burmese Communist Programme Party) members were known as “red Wa”, while the Wa who did not integrate with BCPP became “white Wa”. Therefore, no strange that if WNO, the white Wa leaves UNFC and becomes united with UWSA, the red Wa. The LDU, on the other hands, has a strong link with UWSA. The LDU’s troops have been closely active with UWSA’s 171 Military Zone or otherwise known as Monghsat region.
Curiosity is that if Arakan National Council/Arakan Army (ANC/AA) will sign the NCA or will follow the UWSA-led new political approach to peace, whose fellows United League of Arakan/Arakan Army (ULA/AA) is an ally, yet remains to be seen. KNPP, although less military manpower, yet able to stand on their own feet.
Nevertheless, NMSP who is taking a leadership role of UNFC/DPN is rather challenging. Geographically, the NMSP is largely active amidst of not only within reach of Burma military, but with also some other NCA-signatories Border Guard Force (BGF) troopers. Therefore, the NMSP may have not much choice but swallow their bittersweet.
In the meantime, the political challenge for NMSP and KNPP being their request to update the NCA treaty with the 9-point proposals. If the government and military insist ‘no amendment’ to the original NCA can be made, what they would do? And if in case of military challenge is imminent, what is their alternative?
We can conclude that under any circumstance, the remaining five members of UNFC to sign the NCA is, however, unforeseeable at least for now.
By Shan Herald Agency for News (SHAN)

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: Burma’s New Game Plan: Is Pangkham-led initiative an answer to stalled peace process? | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
Since October 15, 2015, Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement (NCA)-based peace process has been the only game in town. Principally, Ethnic Armed Organizations (EAOs) must sign the NCA before being allowed to participate in what is officially known as the Union Peace Conference – 21st Century Panglong (UPC-21CP), which has been convened twice already, once during the tenure of President Thein Sein and again during the rule of National League for Democracy (NLD) government, under the de facto leadership of Aung San Suu Kyi. The third conference is scheduled to be held on May 24, according to official announcement, following the agreement reached earlier at the Joint Implementation Coordination Meeting between officials of the government and leaders of the armed ethnic organizations that have signed the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement, in Naypyitaw.
But this is changing fast, as Panghsang, now officially known as Pangkham, capital of the Wa Self-Administrative Division, led the ethnic leadership from 7 EAOs officially declared a non-NCA-based peace negotiation approach on April 19, 2017 that is totally new by rejecting the government-led NCA-based peace process that so far has been the only game in town.
The government insistence that all the EAOs must sign the NCA first or else they would not be allowed to participate in the UPC-21CP have effectively left out all the EAOs participants in Pangkham.
They are the Pangkham-led 7 EAOs military-political alliance that includes the United Wa State Party/Army (UWSP/UWSA), United League of Arakan/Arakan Army (ULA/AA), Kachin Independence Organization/Army (KIO/KIA), Palaung State Liberation Front/Ta’ang National Liberation Army (PSLF/TNLA), Myanmar National Truth and Justice Party/Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNTJP/MNDAA), Peace and Solidarity Committee/National Democratic Alliance Army (PSC/NDAA) and Shan State Progress Party/Shan State Army (SSPP/SSA).The alliance recently said to be named Federation of Ethnic Alliance (FEA) held meetings in Pangkham by the UWSP/UWSA for the third time in February 22 to 24 and recent fourth time from April 15 to 19. The Wa also hosted the first Pangkham Summit in May 2015 and the second one in November of the same year.Although the government is keen to have the UWSA, NDAA and SSPP included in its NCA-based peace process, it is bitterly against the MNDAA, TNLA and AA, it considers that they are relatively new groups that enter the fray without real political motive and unspoken, official attitude that they are directly or indirectly linked to the big neighboring country as proxies, rightly or wrongly.And to complicate the matter, KIO is involved in the military alliance, which the said excluded 3 EAOs are members, calling itself Northern Alliance – Burma (NA-B) delivering running battles with the government troops, also known as the Military or Tatmadaw, since last year. Apart from that, the KIO is also a leading member of the other 7 EAOs’ military-political alliance, the United Nationalities Federal Council (UNFC).Like the KIO, SSPP, a militarily formidable group, is also involved in both the Pangkham initiated peace approach which is also a member of the UNFC.The UNFC is in the process of bargaining with the government on how to make amendment to the present existing NCA so that it could sign the agreement and enter the UPC-21CP as a fully fledged participation group.Thus, question arises on whether the KIO and SSPP would would follow the Pangkham-initiated or government-initiated NCA-based peace process. However, it should be noted that the UNFC is now only in the process of bargaining to amend the NCA to make it a more equitable setting, which in other words means the creation of a level playing field is still under negotiation.Against this backdrop, on one track the government is trying to pick up it’s lost momentum which the State Counselor Aung San Suu Kyi has started as UPC-21CP, a few months after its NLD-led regime took over from the former Thein Sein government at the end of March last year; and the other, a new Pangkham-initiated peace approach, which rejected the government’s  NCA-based process coupled with a new ceasefire proposal deal to end the war in ethnic states first, followed by political negotiation that would lead to possible political settlement and conflict resolution.The ongoing government-led UPC-21CP seems to be a fraudulent with lots of failure, such as it is not at all an all-inclusive peace initiative; the process being completely taken over by the government although it is supposed to be a jointly owned one together with the other EAOs or stakeholders; and above all, the whole peace process not catering to the level playing field norms that should be at the heart of any conflict resolution.Rejection of the NCA-based peace processThe UNFC and as well the Pangkham alliance rejection of the NCA is first and foremost the issue of  all-inclusiveness of all the EAOs. To date, only 8 from 21 EAOs have signed the NCA and the remaining 13 EAOs still haven’t been involved. The reason for not signing the NCA for the UNFC, and as well the Pangkham alliance, being the exclusion of the MNDAA, TNLA and AA that have been militarily engaging the Tatmadaw in northern Shan State.But with the Pangkham alliance rejecting the government’s NCA-based peace process, of which the said three EAOs are members, the all-inclusive demand of the UNFC might now become irrelevant.The second reason is the NCA that was signed by the 8 EAOs on October 2015 is being hijacked by the then Thein Sein’s Union Solidarity and Development Party (USDP) government and also taken over as it is by the present NLD regime, which means the NCA that is supposed to be a joint-process between all the EAOs and the government has become solely the government owned one, as could be seen on how the peace process is being handled. Besides, the partial-ceasefire nature comprising of only 8 EAOs could hardly speak for all the EAOs that are still outside the NCA fold.The third reason is the inability to create a level playing field, as could be seen by the composition of UPC-21CP participation quota. According to the NCA, the government and the parliament each has 75 representatives, 150 altogether; the Military 150; the EAOs 150; political parties 150; ethnic representatives 50; and selected individuals 50; making it a grand total of 700 representatives altogether.The ethnic nationalities as a whole sees this as an imbalance participation composition quota and demands a tripartite dialogue, which should include only three groups: the government, parliament and the Military; the EAOs; and the political parties; that would be equally represented, so that a level playing field participation be made possible.On top of all these, the Pangkham alliance considers that the NCA is a lopsided document that seeks to replace the Panglong Agreement of 1947 which it sees as a political and historical legacy of the ethnic nationalities, embedded or anchored in the ethnic rights of self-determination, equality and democracy.Pangkham initiated peace dealFrom April 15 to 19, the 7 EAOs, numbering 27 representatives met in Wa State, Pangkham, hosted by the UWSP/UWSA and supported by the PSC/NDAA.The new Pangkham initiated peace deal spelled out its eight-point statement, following the end of fourth ethnic armed revolutionary leaders’ meeting.The statement confirmed the formation of “Union Political Negotiation Committee” (UPNC) to negotiate with the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, together with the approved lists of   secretariat and a body of negotiation representatives.A common document guidelines based on “ethnic armed revolutionary organizations general principles and position on political negotiation” was agreed upon and the proposal on how to overcome the present difficulties that are evident in the ongoing peace process is documented, which accordingly would be made known to the government as soon as possible.The statement further stressed that the UPNC door is always open for any ethnic armed revolutionary organization, political party and influential individual, that accepts the rules and regulations of the “ethnic armed revolutionary organizations general principles and position on political negotiation,” announced during the third Pangkham meeting.PerspectiveGiven such a backdrop, we could now venture into a more deeper speculation on which of the two game plans could benefit the people of Burma and the country as a whole.First, it is clear that all contending parties and all stakeholders are of the same opinion that peace is crucial to the achievement of national unity, reconciliation and development of the country. If this is really the case or outgoing point and all are determined to strive for it, there should be a way out from this debacle.From the point of UNFC and the Pangkham alliance the NCA-based peace process failures are the inability to hold all-inclusiveness participation that involve all EAOs; government abandoning the joint-peace-process and taking the lead alone without adequate consultation with other stakeholders; non-conformity to adhere to equality or level playing field configuration at all negotiation levels; and above all, ignoring the ethnic nationalities’ historical-political legacy embedded in Panglong Agreement of 1948.Thus, it could be taken that if the said flaws were to be corrected the NCA could become acceptable for many of the EAOs that remain outside the NCA-based peace process fold, including the Pangkham alliance. In this sense, the flexibility and accommodation from the part of the government, and of course with the cooperation of the Military, would be essential and should be the way to go.Now if we look at the Pangkham initiated peace approach proposal, it primarily seeks to end the ongoing wars in all ethnic states, signs a new ceasefire deal between the government and its alliance members, and finally entering the peace negotiation process.Principally, this could be adjustable, if the regime would employ a double-track or parallel approach. Why shouldn’t the government be able to leave the existing NCA signatory 8 EAOs, as a resolved portion of peace process participants, while negotiating a new set of ceasefire deal with the Pangkham alliance and allowing them to enter the peace process?To blend in or incorporate the two game plans would open a new venue of cooperation, only the imposition of the rigid stance “to sign the NCA first, before the parties could be allowed to participate in the peace process,” should be totally abandoned.The main and crucial point though is to get all warring parties to come to the negotiation table, no matter how it is achieved.But to be able to pull this first crucial step, courage, political will and altruism will be needed, especially from the part of the government, including the Military, as a stronger party among all stakeholders involving in the conflict.If this could be done, the Pangkham alliance might also tone down its demand of achieving a confederation type of solution – a proposition which definitely would throw the government off-balance –  and would probably opt for a genuine federal union settlement instead.There is even a saying to support this argument, “Aim for the moon. If you miss, you may hit a star.”By all means, this particular double-track approach is worth trying and might even be a viable solution, after all these years of continuous fighting and numerous, fruitless, attempted negotiations.
They are the Pangkham-led 7 EAOs military-political alliance that includes the United Wa State Party/Army (UWSP/UWSA), United League of Arakan/Arakan Army (ULA/AA), Kachin Independence Organization/Army (KIO/KIA), Palaung State Liberation Front/Ta’ang National Liberation Army (PSLF/TNLA), Myanmar National Truth and Justice Party/Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army (MNTJP/MNDAA), Peace and Solidarity Committee/National Democratic Alliance Army (PSC/NDAA) and Shan State Progress Party/Shan State Army (SSPP/SSA).
The alliance recently said to be named Federation of Ethnic Alliance (FEA) held meetings in Pangkham by the UWSP/UWSA for the third time in February 22 to 24 and recent fourth time from April 15 to 19. The Wa also hosted the first Pangkham Summit in May 2015 and the second one in November of the same year.
Although the government is keen to have the UWSA, NDAA and SSPP included in its NCA-based peace process, it is bitterly against the MNDAA, TNLA and AA, it considers that they are relatively new groups that enter the fray without real political motive and unspoken, official attitude that they are directly or indirectly linked to the big neighboring country as proxies, rightly or wrongly.
And to complicate the matter, KIO is involved in the military alliance, which the said excluded 3 EAOs are members, calling itself Northern Alliance – Burma (NA-B) delivering running battles with the government troops, also known as the Military or Tatmadaw, since last year. Apart from that, the KIO is also a leading member of the other 7 EAOs’ military-political alliance, the United Nationalities Federal Council (UNFC).
Like the KIO, SSPP, a militarily formidable group, is also involved in both the Pangkham initiated peace approach which is also a member of the UNFC.
The UNFC is in the process of bargaining with the government on how to make amendment to the present existing NCA so that it could sign the agreement and enter the UPC-21CP as a fully fledged participation group.
Thus, question arises on whether the KIO and SSPP would would follow the Pangkham-initiated or government-initiated NCA-based peace process. However, it should be noted that the UNFC is now only in the process of bargaining to amend the NCA to make it a more equitable setting, which in other words means the creation of a level playing field is still under negotiation.
Against this backdrop, on one track the government is trying to pick up it’s lost momentum which the State Counselor Aung San Suu Kyi has started as UPC-21CP, a few months after its NLD-led regime took over from the former Thein Sein government at the end of March last year; and the other, a new Pangkham-initiated peace approach, which rejected the government’s  NCA-based process coupled with a new ceasefire proposal deal to end the war in ethnic states first, followed by political negotiation that would lead to possible political settlement and conflict resolution.
The ongoing government-led UPC-21CP seems to be a fraudulent with lots of failure, such as it is not at all an all-inclusive peace initiative; the process being completely taken over by the government although it is supposed to be a jointly owned one together with the other EAOs or stakeholders; and above all, the whole peace process not catering to the level playing field norms that should be at the heart of any conflict resolution.
Rejection of the NCA-based peace process
The UNFC and as well the Pangkham alliance rejection of the NCA is first and foremost the issue of  all-inclusiveness of all the EAOs. To date, only 8 from 21 EAOs have signed the NCA and the remaining 13 EAOs still haven’t been involved. The reason for not signing the NCA for the UNFC, and as well the Pangkham alliance, being the exclusion of the MNDAA, TNLA and AA that have been militarily engaging the Tatmadaw in northern Shan State.
But with the Pangkham alliance rejecting the government’s NCA-based peace process, of which the said three EAOs are members, the all-inclusive demand of the UNFC might now become irrelevant.
The second reason is the NCA that was signed by the 8 EAOs on October 2015 is being hijacked by the then Thein Sein’s Union Solidarity and Development Party (USDP) government and also taken over as it is by the present NLD regime, which means the NCA that is supposed to be a joint-process between all the EAOs and the government has become solely the government owned one, as could be seen on how the peace process is being handled. Besides, the partial-ceasefire nature comprising of only 8 EAOs could hardly speak for all the EAOs that are still outside the NCA fold.
The third reason is the inability to create a level playing field, as could be seen by the composition of UPC-21CP participation quota. According to the NCA, the government and the parliament each has 75 representatives, 150 altogether; the Military 150; the EAOs 150; political parties 150; ethnic representatives 50; and selected individuals 50; making it a grand total of 700 representatives altogether.
The ethnic nationalities as a whole sees this as an imbalance participation composition quota and demands a tripartite dialogue, which should include only three groups: the government, parliament and the Military; the EAOs; and the political parties; that would be equally represented, so that a level playing field participation be made possible.
On top of all these, the Pangkham alliance considers that the NCA is a lopsided document that seeks to replace the Panglong Agreement of 1947 which it sees as a political and historical legacy of the ethnic nationalities, embedded or anchored in the ethnic rights of self-determination, equality and democracy.
Pangkham initiated peace deal
From April 15 to 19, the 7 EAOs, numbering 27 representatives met in Wa State, Pangkham, hosted by the UWSP/UWSA and supported by the PSC/NDAA.
The new Pangkham initiated peace deal spelled out its eight-point statement, following the end of fourth ethnic armed revolutionary leaders’ meeting.
The statement confirmed the formation of “Union Political Negotiation Committee” (UPNC) to negotiate with the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, together with the approved lists of   secretariat and a body of negotiation representatives.
A common document guidelines based on “ethnic armed revolutionary organizations general principles and position on political negotiation” was agreed upon and the proposal on how to overcome the present difficulties that are evident in the ongoing peace process is documented, which accordingly would be made known to the government as soon as possible.
The statement further stressed that the UPNC door is always open for any ethnic armed revolutionary organization, political party and influential individual, that accepts the rules and regulations of the “ethnic armed revolutionary organizations general principles and position on political negotiation,” announced during the third Pangkham meeting.
Perspective
Given such a backdrop, we could now venture into a more deeper speculation on which of the two game plans could benefit the people of Burma and the country as a whole.
First, it is clear that all contending parties and all stakeholders are of the same opinion that peace is crucial to the achievement of national unity, reconciliation and development of the country. If this is really the case or outgoing point and all are determined to strive for it, there should be a way out from this debacle.
From the point of UNFC and the Pangkham alliance the NCA-based peace process failures are the inability to hold all-inclusiveness participation that involve all EAOs; government abandoning the joint-peace-process and taking the lead alone without adequate consultation with other stakeholders; non-conformity to adhere to equality or level playing field configuration at all negotiation levels; and above all, ignoring the ethnic nationalities’ historical-political legacy embedded in Panglong Agreement of 1948.
Thus, it could be taken that if the said flaws were to be corrected the NCA could become acceptable for many of the EAOs that remain outside the NCA-based peace process fold, including the Pangkham alliance. In this sense, the flexibility and accommodation from the part of the government, and of course with the cooperation of the Military, would be essential and should be the way to go.
Now if we look at the Pangkham initiated peace approach proposal, it primarily seeks to end the ongoing wars in all ethnic states, signs a new ceasefire deal between the government and its alliance members, and finally entering the peace negotiation process.
Principally, this could be adjustable, if the regime would employ a double-track or parallel approach. Why shouldn’t the government be able to leave the existing NCA signatory 8 EAOs, as a resolved portion of peace process participants, while negotiating a new set of ceasefire deal with the Pangkham alliance and allowing them to enter the peace process?
To blend in or incorporate the two game plans would open a new venue of cooperation, only the imposition of the rigid stance “to sign the NCA first, before the parties could be allowed to participate in the peace process,” should be totally abandoned.
The main and crucial point though is to get all warring parties to come to the negotiation table, no matter how it is achieved.
But to be able to pull this first crucial step, courage, political will and altruism will be needed, especially from the part of the government, including the Military, as a stronger party among all stakeholders involving in the conflict.
If this could be done, the Pangkham alliance might also tone down its demand of achieving a confederation type of solution – a proposition which definitely would throw the government off-balance –  and would probably opt for a genuine federal union settlement instead.
There is even a saying to support this argument, “Aim for the moon. If you miss, you may hit a star.”
By all means, this particular double-track approach is worth trying and might even be a viable solution, after all these years of continuous fighting and numerous, fruitless, attempted negotiations.

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: Aren’t Rohingyas Bengalis, And Arakan Integral To Bangladesh?| Countercurrents


Every society has certain taboos – cultural/religious, social, and political – set apart and designated as restricted or forbidden to associate with, or even to bring in ordinary discussion. The Rohingya issue (for some strange reasons) seems to be such a taboo in Bangladesh. Both people and government here don’t want to go beyond certain limits to have a candid discussion on the crux of the Rohingya issue, which goes beyond the subject of organized persecution and killing of Rohingyas in Myanmar.
Far from being a peripheral issue for Bangladesh – or just a “refugee problem for over-populated Bangladesh” – the Rohingya issue has everything to do with Bangladesh, its identity, integrity, honour, and dignity. Both Rohingyas and Arakan are rather integral to Bangladesh, historically, culturally, and geopolitically. Now it’s time that Bangladesh asserts in unambiguous terms: “Rohingyas aren’t Bangladeshi intruders into Myanmar. They are Bengalis from Arakan, which is their ancestral home for more than a thousand years. Arakan and the Rohingyas are inseparable from Bangladesh and Bengalis; and Bangladesh just can’t be a dumping ground for persecuted and expropriated Rohingya refugees from Myanmar.”
Unfortunately, what we hear from the Government, media, and a tiny minority of Bangladeshi intellectuals is all about asking (rather requesting) Myanmar to take back Rohingya refugees from Bangladesh; and to treat its Rohingya minority humanely. Some Bangladeshi Muslims and Islamic organizations occasionally protest the killing and persecution of Rohingyas in Myanmar, seemingly only because the victims are Muslims. The problem is no longer Myanmar’s internal problem, as it was never so in the past 200 years; it has everything to do with Bengalis, and the state of Bangladesh! According to a CNN documentary (Jan 31, 2017) more than 92,000 Rohingyas have entered the country in the last one-year alone.
Meanwhile, the Bangladesh Government has taken two absurd decisions: firstly, it has virtually refused to grant refugee status to the Rohingyas on the flimsy ground of “over-population”; and secondly, it has proposed to “settle” Rohingya refugees at Thengar Char, a remote, marshy, and uninhabitable island, more than 37 miles from the mainland of Bangladesh, which is often submerged in water. “This is a terrible and crazy idea … it would be like sending thousands of people to exile rather than calling it relocation,” a Bangladeshi government official told CNN recently, and he didn’t want to be named because he feared reprisals.
Although Bangladesh isn’t a signatory to the UN Refugee Convention (for some strange reasons), the country has a moral obligation to accept refugees, as the country was born, as one analyst has put it, “experiencing refugeehood”. During our liberation war, around 10 million people (one out of every seven of that time population) took refuge in neighbouring India. Last but not least, Bangladesh has another obligation to the Rohingya Bengalis from Arakan, which until 1784 was integral to Bengal.
A CNN documentary (Jan 31, 2016) on the plight of the Rohingya Bengalis is heart-rending and revealing. While the Rohingyas, the sons and daughters of the soil of Arakan or the Rakhaine State of Myanmar for more than one thousand years are at the receiving end of murder, rape, torture, and expropriation at the hands of Myanmar authorities and Buddhist majority, the Bangladesh authorities have remained very insensitive to these hapless refugees. They should learn as to how some Western nations, especially Germany, Sweden, and Canada, have welcomed and accommodated Muslim refugees from Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere in the Muslim World.
Bangladesh should take a proactive role in addressing the Rohingya issue. It should pay heed to what the British High Commissioner to Bangladesh, Ms Alison Blake has recently told the world about the persecution of the Rohingyas in Myanmar in the most unambiguous terms: “Hearing the description of the torture from Rohingyas who fled Rakhine state in Myanmar, it seemed that it is tantamount to genocide.” As reported in theTimemagazine (March 14, 2017), Yanghee Lee, the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Myanmar believes the Myanmar authorities “may be trying to expel the Rohingya population from the country altogether.”
It’s strange but true, while the situation for the Rohingyas in Myanmar is comparable to the plight of the victims of the Syrian civil war, the people and government in Bangladesh are at most lukewarm about the ongoing genocide of Bengali Rohingyas in Myanmar. They aren’t enthusiastic about extending whole-hearted support to the Rohingya refugees, let alone finding out a permanent solution to their problem. They even avoid raising the question: Aren’t Rohingyas Bengalis, and Arakan integral to Bangladesh? The reasons aren’t far to seek. Firstly, Bangladeshis in general don’t know the actual history of the Rakhaine State of Myanmar, and the Rohingya people, who aren’t descendants of Bangladeshi intruders into Myanmar but are indigenous to the state, also known as Arakan. Bangladeshis don’t know that Arakan is an occupied territory, and the Rohingyas are the only legitimate inhabitants of the territory.
Arakan was a Bengali-speaking Muslim kingdom up to 1784, when Buddhist Barmans annexed the kingdom to what is Myanmar today. The British occupied Myanmar or Burma in 1826 and ruled the country up to 1948. When the British left, Arakan, also called Rakhaine, remained a part of Myanmar. Meanwhile, thanks to Myanmar government policy, Buddhist/Barman people had outnumbered the indigenous Bengali Rohingyas in Arakan. After 1948, Arakanese Muslims (Bengalis who speak Chittagonian dialect) tried to become independent, in vain. The rest is history.
Now, in regards to the Rohingya issue, the options for Bangladesh are very limited. It can, however, now play a different ballgame with Myanmar. As Bangladesh should pressure Myanmar to take back all the Rohingya refugees who have fled to Bangladesh in the last few years, it should also involve the UN, international human rights agencies, and China (which has considerable influence with the Myanmar authorities) to make Myanmar respect international law and human rights of people living under its suzerainty.
To conclude, Bangladesh just can’t afford to be a passive spectator of the ongoing persecution of the Rohingyas who are indigenous to Arakan, once integral to Bangladesh.  Now, there are some open-ended, — and possibly embarrassing – questions in this regard. If Bangladesh should assert its claim on Arakan is altogether a different and difficult question! If there is a military solution to the problem, is indeed an embarrassing question for Bangladesh.
The writer teaches security studies at Austin Peay State University. He is the author of several books, including his latest,Global Jihad and America: The Hundred-Year War Beyond Iraq and Afghanistan(Sage, 2014). Email:[email protected]


Countercurrents is answerable only to our readers. Support honest journalism because we have no PLANET B.Become a Patron atPatreon
GET COUNTERCURRENTS DAILY NEWSLETTER STRAIGHT TO YOUR INBOX
Get CounterCurrents updates on our WhatsApp and Telegram Channels

byDr Binoy Kampmark25/07/2022
The indomitable spirit of Raphael Lemkin, bibliophile, assiduous documenter of humanity’s dark deeds and inexecrable conduct, is bound to be an unsettled one.  This brilliant, committed and peculiarly dedicated creature…
byFaisal Mahmood07/03/2022
Book Review: ROHINGYA REFUGEE CRISIS IN MYANMAR: ‎ETHNIC CONFLICT AND RESOLUTION (Palgrave Macmillan) Edited by: Kudret Bülbül, Md. Nazmul Islam & Md. Sajid Khan Considering the current situation of crisis,…
byKazi Mohammad Jamshed02/11/2021
Source: Center for Strategic and International Studies As of July 2021, only $366 million of the total required, around $1 billion, humanitarian assistance fund for the Rohingyas has been disbursed.…
byAbdus Sattar Ghazali03/10/2021
A prominent Rohingya Muslim leader has been shot dead in a refugee camp in southern Bangladesh. Mohibullah, who was in his late 40s, led one of the largest of several…
byKazi Mohammad Jamshed11/09/2021
Washington-based global lender the World Bank, through concessional lending arms, has gone to bat for Bangladesh to foster its development initiatives since 1972; committing more than $30 billion by backing…
byNayd Riham19/08/2021
In late August of 2017, Rohima Kadu's idyllic village of Chin Khali, Rakhine was visited by Myanmar's much dreaded military, the Tatmadaw and its local Buddhist militia associates. A helpless…
Join Countercurrents Annual Fund Raising Campaign and help us
byAndre Damon
byRamakrishnan
byEuro-Med Human Rights Monitor
byShania Scotland
byJessica Corbett
byJonathan Ofir
byDr Binoy Kampmark
byVijay Prashad
byDr Ramzy Baroud
byKim Scipes
byDr VladislavB Sotirovic
byDr Arun Mitra
byNeeraj Jain
byDr Ram Puniyani
byDimple Oberoi Vahali
byBharat Dogra
byAli A Kiafar
byAndre Damon
byDave Darby
byDr Ajazuddin Shaikh
byEuro-Med Human Rights Monitor
byMarcelo Mena
byBharat Dogra
byAli A Kiafar
byBhabani Shankar Nayak
byFeroze Mithiborwala
byAndre Damon
byKevin Reed
byAnthony Fulton
byDr Suresh Khairnar
byWaseem Ahmad Bhat
byDr Gideon Polya
byBharat Dogra
byVidyadhar Date
byNilofar Suhrawardy
byHaider Abbas
byAruna Rodrigues
byJuan Cole
byChris Hedges
byMohamed El Metmari
byBinu Mathew
byBinu Mathew
byBinu Mathew
Copyright © Countercurrents

Title: Mizoram: 338 Myanmar refugees repatriated | India News - The Indian Express
As many as 338 Myanmar nationals, mostly women and children, have been repatriated after they crossed over to the Indian side in Mizoram last week, following alleged atrocities by a Myanmar-based insurgent group.
The refugees from Ralei village had arrived in Lungpuk and Khaiky villages of southern Mizoram’s Saiha district on May 19.
A release issued byGuwahati-based Defence PRO Lt Col Suneet Newton said the refugees had crossed over to escape atrocities from Myanmar-based insurgent group Arakan Army. It added that the Assam Rifles organised the repatriation exercise on Wednesday.
“The villagers, who came from Myanmar to receive refugees…confided that the Arakan Army insurgents had moved away to an undisclosed location towards Myanmar side and the village was now completely safe for the refugees to return,” the release said.
Click here to join The Indian Express on WhatsApp and get latest news and updates
The process of remaking a web series is different from remaking a film. The rules remain the same - ensure local nativity and don't spoil the original. Prime Video's Panchayat became a hit in the Indian OTT space, and now its Tamil remake, Thalaivettiyaan Paalayam, has done things largely right



Title: Arakan Army forces 300 Chin to flee to India: newspaper | Frontier Myanmar

Nearly 300 Myanmar have been driven out of their homes in Chin State and forced to flee to neighbouring India by an armed ethnic group, the Arakan Army, an Indian newspaper has reported.
Most of those who crossed into India’s Mizoram State on May 19 were women and children, theNew Indian Expressreported on May 22, quoting sources in the paramilitary Assam Rifles.
The report said male villagers were held back by the ethnic Rakhine Arakan Army, which has become increasingly active in recent years.
The report did not identify the religion of those forced to flee but most Chin are Christians.
The Assam Rifles said that after being told of an influx of a large group of people from Myanmar it despatched teams that found more than 200 Chin in one village and 77 in another, the newspaper reported.

Support more independent journalism like this.Sign up to be a Frontier member.
“The refugees revealed that they were residents of Ralie village in Chin State … They said they were threatened and pushed out of their homes by Myanmar-based ethnic insurgent group, Arakan Army, while most male villagers were held back,” a senior Assam Rifles officer told theNew Indian Express.
Mizoram home minister Mr R. Lalzirliana said the Chin were staying in schools and community halls and the state government was providing them with food.
The Assam Rifles had contacted the Tatmadaw to discuss arrangements for the safe return of the Chin to their homes, the report said.
Fighting in Rakhine State last year between the Tatmadaw and the Arakan Army forced hundreds of villagers to flee their homes.
A Tatmadaw battalion commander was among those killed in clashes in Kyauktaw Township in April last year that were reported to have claimed the lives of 20 soldiers.
The Tatmadaw had vowed to eliminate the Arakan Army in Rakhine after fighting began in Kyauktaw Township in December 2015.
The AA is one of three groups, along with Ta’ang National Liberation Army and the Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army, that were excluded from signing the so-called Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement in 2015 and the three groups remain outside the peace process.
Many AA troops were trained by the Kachin Independence Army, another non-signatory of the NCA.

SHARE

Support our independent journalism and get exclusive behind-the-scenes content and analysis
Stay on top of Myanmar current affairs with our Daily Briefing and Media Monitor newsletters.
Sign up for our Frontier Fridays newsletter. It’s a free weekly round-up featuring the most important events shaping Myanmar
© 2024 Frontier Myanmar
This post is also available in:English

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-20 14:09Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Driven out by militants, 300 people from Myanmar flee to Mizoram
GUWAHATI:  A Myanmar-based insurgent group has driven out nearly 300 people, mostly women and children, from their homes forcing them to flee to neighbouring Mizoram in search of refuge.According to defence sources, the exodus took place on Friday. The insurgent group, Arakan Army, held back the male villagers.The Assam Rifles said it had received information from the civil administration on Friday about the influx of a large group of people from Myanmar to southern Mizoram. Subsequently, it sent two teams to a village, Lungpuk. During profiling, the teams learnt that there were more than 200 refugees.Later, the teams visited another village, Khaikhy, and found 77 more refugees there.“The refugees revealed that they were residents of Ralie village in Chin State of Myanmar. They said they were threatened and pushed out of their homes by Myanmar-based ethnic insurgent group, Arakan Army, while most of the male villagers were held back,” a senior Assam Rifles officer toldThe New Indian Express.Mizoram home minister, R Lalzirliana, said the State government was taking care of the refugees.“They can travel up to 15 km from the international border inside India and stay there for some time. Myanmar and India have an agreement in this regard. But we will soon inform the Central government about them,” he said.Lalzirliana pointed out that the refugees were staying in schools and community halls and the Mizoram government was providing them food.Earlier, the Assam Rifles interacted with Myanmar Army authorities about ensuring a safe return of the refugees by providing adequate security.Myanmar has over 20 insurgent outfits. A dozen of them are lying low following signing of ceasefire agreements with the government two years back. The Arakan Army was founded in 2009 and it is fighting to protect the Arakan people and establish peace, justice, freedom and development.
Follow The New Indian Express channel on WhatsApp
Download the TNIE app to stay with us and follow the latest

Copyright - newindianexpress.com 2024. All rights reserved.


Title: At least 280 refugees have crossed over to Mizoram from Myanmar: Police official | India News - The Indian Express
At least 280 people, mostly women and children, from Arakan in Myanmar have taken refuge at two villages in southernmost Mizoram’s Siaha district, a senior police official said on Monday.
The official told PTI that over 200 people have taken refuge in Lungpuk village and 77 others in Khalkhy hamlet. The Assam Rifles personnel posted in the border areas and the district administration provided necessary assistance to the refugees while the villagers of the two villages also made arrangements for food and lodging, the official said.
Siaha district Superintendent of Police had already reached Lungpuk village and made elaborate security arrangements, the official said.
The people from Ralie village fled Myanmar due to reported impending confrontation between the Arakan Army (AA) militants and the Myanmarse Army, the official said adding that the Assam Rifles officials had informed the Myanmarese army officials and appealed to the latter to ensure safety of the refugees in Myanmar.
Click here to join The Indian Express on WhatsApp and get latest news and updates
The process of remaking a web series is different from remaking a film. The rules remain the same - ensure local nativity and don't spoil the original. Prime Video's Panchayat became a hit in the Indian OTT space, and now its Tamil remake, Thalaivettiyaan Paalayam, has done things largely right



Title: Escaping ethnic trouble, 280 Myanmar tribals seek shelter in Mizoram | India – Gulf News
Assam Rifles troopers and Saiha district administration provide necessary aid and support to the refugees
Aizawl: At least 280 people, mostly women and children, from Myanmar have taken shelter in two villages in Mizoram allegedly fearing ethnic trouble at home, an official said here on Tuesday.
“Around 280 people from Myanmar’s Ralie village in Arakan area have taken shelter at Lungpuk and Khalkhy mountainous villages in Saiha district since late Friday,” a Mizoram home department official said.
Assam Rifles troopers posted along the Myanmar border areas and the Saiha district administration provided necessary aid and support, including food, to the refugees.
“The local tribal villagers of the two villages also made arrangements for food and lodging for the hapless people,” the official added.
Senior Mizoram police and Assam Rifles officials have immediately rushed to the bordering areas and are supervising the situation.
Assam Rifles sources said the refugees fled their villages following imminent conflict between the outlawed Arakan Army militants and the Myanmar Army.
The Assam Rifles officials had informed the Myanmar Army and requested them to ensure safety of the refugees in Myanmar.
Arakan Army terror group, who held back male members of the fleeing refugees intermittently, engaged in skirmishes with the Myanmar Army.
Mizoram Home Minister R. Lalzirliana said in Aizawl that the refugees are being taken care of by the state government and the matter has been conveyed to the Union Home Ministry.
The refugees are now sheltered at community halls and a nearby school.
Mizoram shares an unfenced 510-km border with Myanmar and 318km with Bangladesh, providing infiltrators, terrorists and smugglers an opportunity to illegally move across the border.
There is a 16-km-wide free zone (8km on either side of the frontier) along the 1,643-km unfenced India-Myanmar border.
Four northeastern states — Arunachal Pradesh (520km), Manipur (398km), Nagaland (215km) and Mizoram (510km) — share the 1,643-km mountainous border with Myanmar.
GetBreaking NewsAlerts From Gulf News
We’ll send you latest news updates through the day. You can manage them any time by clicking on the notification icon.

Title: Over 280 refugees have crossed over to Mizoram from Myanmar
This man starts wedding sabotage business, claims he's fully booked till December, charges Rs...
Meet man who passed JEE Advanced with AIR 1, completed B.Tech from IIT Bombay, is now pursuing…
Meet superstar, Sridevi's rival, earned Rs 10 for debut, then became highest-paid actress, married father of 2, now...
Meet man who started as intern at Nike, is now its CEO after 32 years, his salary is Rs...
ENG vs AUS: Travis Head breaks Rohit Sharma's 6-year-old ODI record
India
Over 280 people, mostly women and children, from Arakan in Myanmar have taken refuge at two villages in southernmost Mizoram's Siaha district, a senior police official said today.
DNA Web Team
Updated :May 22, 2017, 12:25 PM IST
Over 280 people, mostly women and children, from Arakan in Myanmar have taken refuge at two villages in southernmost Mizoram's Siaha district, a senior police official said today.
The official told(This article has not been edited by DNA's editorial team and is auto-generated from an agency feed.)

(This article has not been edited by DNA's editorial team and is auto-generated from an agency feed.)
Lok Sabha Elections 2024: Anupamaa' Star Rupali Ganguly Joins BJP, Says 'Big Fan' Of PM Modi
Salman Khan House Firing Case: Accused Anuj Thapan Dies By Suicide In Mumbai Police Custody
Lok Sabha Elections 2024: Congress' Rahul Gandhi-Amethi Suspense Making BJP Nervous? | Uttar Pradesh
Delhi Bomb Threat: Who Is Behind The Hoax Bomb Threat That Shut Down Hundred Schools In Delhi?
Bangladesh Protest: Unreal Scenes In Country After fresh Wave Of Protests |Sheikh Hasina

Title: Civilian casualties reported from Burmese army, TNLA clash | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
A villager was reportedly killed and three others injured as fighting broke out between Burmese government forces and the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) in northern Shan State’s Namkham Township.
Photo by local source- Villagers were injured during clashes between Burmese government forces and the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) in northern Shan State’s Namkham Township.
According to a member of a Ta’ang youth group who wished to remain anonymous, heavy weapons were launched around three villages in Namkham Township yesterday. He said that a 75-year-old woman was caught in the crossfire and later pronounced dead at the local hospital.
The clash broke out at about 10am on May 2 between Burmese army Infantry Division No. 88 and TNLA’s Battalion No. 571 in the area between Nampakkha tract and Namkham Township, according to a report from the TNLA News and Information Department published on its website on Tuesday. It claimed that the Burmese military launched artillery and deployed three fighter jets over the villages of Namhom, Kongkhur and Pangzarm.“Three villagers from Kongkhur were injured,” a local source told Shan Herald. “They have been identified as Aiang Tha, aged 48, wounded at the waist; Aiang Than Tey, 13, hit on her hip; and Ei Shwe Oo, 17, hit at the knee. They are being treated at Namkham hospital.”Hostilities have been frequent between Burmese armed forces and TNLA troops since 2012, according to Myanmar Peace Monitor, a non-government project under Burma News International’s banner. In 2016 alone, there were 309 clashes reported in northern Shan State – in Naung Cho, Kyaukme, Hsipaw, Kutkai and Namhsan townships.On November 20 last year, the TNLA group and its allies – the Arakan Army (AA), the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), and the Myanmar Nationalities Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA) – launched coordinated offensives against Burmese military positions in the areas of Muse, Namkham and Kutkai townships, compelling thousands of local residents to flee their homes.The TNLA, also known as the Palaung Army, was among six armed groups excluded by the government from signing the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement in 2015, during the era of the previous military-backed regime.The Palaung have also been sidelined from negotiations between Naypyidaw and ethnic armed groups hosted by the incumbent government, and headed by Aung San Suu Kyi. The next round of the talks, dubbed the “21st Century Panglong Conference,” is scheduled to take place on May 24, when representatives of the government, military, political parties, ethnic armed groups and civil society are due to discuss the ongoing peace process in the country.By Shan Herald Agency for News (SHAN)
The clash broke out at about 10am on May 2 between Burmese army Infantry Division No. 88 and TNLA’s Battalion No. 571 in the area between Nampakkha tract and Namkham Township, according to a report from the TNLA News and Information Department published on its website on Tuesday. It claimed that the Burmese military launched artillery and deployed three fighter jets over the villages of Namhom, Kongkhur and Pangzarm.
“Three villagers from Kongkhur were injured,” a local source told Shan Herald. “They have been identified as Aiang Tha, aged 48, wounded at the waist; Aiang Than Tey, 13, hit on her hip; and Ei Shwe Oo, 17, hit at the knee. They are being treated at Namkham hospital.”
Hostilities have been frequent between Burmese armed forces and TNLA troops since 2012, according to Myanmar Peace Monitor, a non-government project under Burma News International’s banner. In 2016 alone, there were 309 clashes reported in northern Shan State – in Naung Cho, Kyaukme, Hsipaw, Kutkai and Namhsan townships.
On November 20 last year, the TNLA group and its allies – the Arakan Army (AA), the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), and the Myanmar Nationalities Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA) – launched coordinated offensives against Burmese military positions in the areas of Muse, Namkham and Kutkai townships, compelling thousands of local residents to flee their homes.
The TNLA, also known as the Palaung Army, was among six armed groups excluded by the government from signing the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement in 2015, during the era of the previous military-backed regime.
The Palaung have also been sidelined from negotiations between Naypyidaw and ethnic armed groups hosted by the incumbent government, and headed by Aung San Suu Kyi. The next round of the talks, dubbed the “21st Century Panglong Conference,” is scheduled to take place on May 24, when representatives of the government, military, political parties, ethnic armed groups and civil society are due to discuss the ongoing peace process in the country.
By Shan Herald Agency for News (SHAN)

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: Civilian casualties reported from Burmese army, TNLA clash | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
A villager was reportedly killed and three others injured as fighting broke out between Burmese government forces and the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) in northern Shan State’s Namkham Township.
Photo by local source- Villagers were injured during clashes between Burmese government forces and the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) in northern Shan State’s Namkham Township.
According to a member of a Ta’ang youth group who wished to remain anonymous, heavy weapons were launched around three villages in Namkham Township yesterday. He said that a 75-year-old woman was caught in the crossfire and later pronounced dead at the local hospital.
The clash broke out at about 10am on May 2 between Burmese army Infantry Division No. 88 and TNLA’s Battalion No. 571 in the area between Nampakkha tract and Namkham Township, according to a report from the TNLA News and Information Department published on its website on Tuesday. It claimed that the Burmese military launched artillery and deployed three fighter jets over the villages of Namhom, Kongkhur and Pangzarm.“Three villagers from Kongkhur were injured,” a local source told Shan Herald. “They have been identified as Aiang Tha, aged 48, wounded at the waist; Aiang Than Tey, 13, hit on her hip; and Ei Shwe Oo, 17, hit at the knee. They are being treated at Namkham hospital.”Hostilities have been frequent between Burmese armed forces and TNLA troops since 2012, according to Myanmar Peace Monitor, a non-government project under Burma News International’s banner. In 2016 alone, there were 309 clashes reported in northern Shan State – in Naung Cho, Kyaukme, Hsipaw, Kutkai and Namhsan townships.On November 20 last year, the TNLA group and its allies – the Arakan Army (AA), the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), and the Myanmar Nationalities Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA) – launched coordinated offensives against Burmese military positions in the areas of Muse, Namkham and Kutkai townships, compelling thousands of local residents to flee their homes.The TNLA, also known as the Palaung Army, was among six armed groups excluded by the government from signing the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement in 2015, during the era of the previous military-backed regime.The Palaung have also been sidelined from negotiations between Naypyidaw and ethnic armed groups hosted by the incumbent government, and headed by Aung San Suu Kyi. The next round of the talks, dubbed the “21st Century Panglong Conference,” is scheduled to take place on May 24, when representatives of the government, military, political parties, ethnic armed groups and civil society are due to discuss the ongoing peace process in the country.By Shan Herald Agency for News (SHAN)
The clash broke out at about 10am on May 2 between Burmese army Infantry Division No. 88 and TNLA’s Battalion No. 571 in the area between Nampakkha tract and Namkham Township, according to a report from the TNLA News and Information Department published on its website on Tuesday. It claimed that the Burmese military launched artillery and deployed three fighter jets over the villages of Namhom, Kongkhur and Pangzarm.
“Three villagers from Kongkhur were injured,” a local source told Shan Herald. “They have been identified as Aiang Tha, aged 48, wounded at the waist; Aiang Than Tey, 13, hit on her hip; and Ei Shwe Oo, 17, hit at the knee. They are being treated at Namkham hospital.”
Hostilities have been frequent between Burmese armed forces and TNLA troops since 2012, according to Myanmar Peace Monitor, a non-government project under Burma News International’s banner. In 2016 alone, there were 309 clashes reported in northern Shan State – in Naung Cho, Kyaukme, Hsipaw, Kutkai and Namhsan townships.
On November 20 last year, the TNLA group and its allies – the Arakan Army (AA), the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), and the Myanmar Nationalities Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA) – launched coordinated offensives against Burmese military positions in the areas of Muse, Namkham and Kutkai townships, compelling thousands of local residents to flee their homes.
The TNLA, also known as the Palaung Army, was among six armed groups excluded by the government from signing the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement in 2015, during the era of the previous military-backed regime.
The Palaung have also been sidelined from negotiations between Naypyidaw and ethnic armed groups hosted by the incumbent government, and headed by Aung San Suu Kyi. The next round of the talks, dubbed the “21st Century Panglong Conference,” is scheduled to take place on May 24, when representatives of the government, military, political parties, ethnic armed groups and civil society are due to discuss the ongoing peace process in the country.
By Shan Herald Agency for News (SHAN)

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: 300 villagers displaced as Burmese army, TNLA clash in Namtu | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
A series of clashes between Burmese government forces and the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) have compelled some 300 villagers in Namtu Township, northern Shan State, to flee their homes.
“Our people had to abandon their homes because of the fighting,” said Nang Jarm Hom, an MP from the Shan Nationalities League for Democracy (SNLD) representing Namtu Township Constituency No. 2. “Around 300 fled to Namtu town on May 11 from Zaikhao tract.”
They are now staying at Shwe Minta Temple, she added.
“The only thing we can do now is use the food that was previously donated to take care of them,” Nang Jarm Hom told Shan Herald. “But we need humanitarian support because the villagers who fled fighting in Mantong Township last year are still here. Now more refugees are pouring in. They need help. They need supplies.”The TNLA recently posted on its News and Information Department website that fighting broke out in Namtu, Mongmit, Kutkai and Mantong Township between its troops, the Burmese army and the Restoration Council of Shan State/Shan State Army (RCSS/SSA).The TNLA, also known as the Palaung Army, was among six armed groups – alongside the Myanmar Nationalities Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA); Arakan Army (AA); Lahu Democratic Union (LDU); Arakan National Congress (ANC); and Wa National Organization (WNO) – that was excluded from signing the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement in 2015 with the then ruling government led by President Thein Sein.According to Myanmar Peace Monitor, in 2016 a total of 309 clashes broke out between the Burmese armed forces and TNLA troops in northern Shan State.On April 10, Shan Herald reported that three villagers were reportedly killed amid fighting between the TNLA and government forces in Kyaukme Township. And earlier this month, an old woman was shot dead and three others injured in Namkham Township. Both incidents occurred in northern Shan State.“We can’t do anything with this fighting going on,” said Shan lawmaker Nang Jarm Hom. “We are helping the villagers as much as we can. But what we really need is an end to these hostilities.”By Shan Herald Agency for News (SHAN)
“The only thing we can do now is use the food that was previously donated to take care of them,” Nang Jarm Hom told Shan Herald. “But we need humanitarian support because the villagers who fled fighting in Mantong Township last year are still here. Now more refugees are pouring in. They need help. They need supplies.”
The TNLA recently posted on its News and Information Department website that fighting broke out in Namtu, Mongmit, Kutkai and Mantong Township between its troops, the Burmese army and the Restoration Council of Shan State/Shan State Army (RCSS/SSA).
The TNLA, also known as the Palaung Army, was among six armed groups – alongside the Myanmar Nationalities Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA); Arakan Army (AA); Lahu Democratic Union (LDU); Arakan National Congress (ANC); and Wa National Organization (WNO) – that was excluded from signing the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement in 2015 with the then ruling government led by President Thein Sein.
According to Myanmar Peace Monitor, in 2016 a total of 309 clashes broke out between the Burmese armed forces and TNLA troops in northern Shan State.
On April 10, Shan Herald reported that three villagers were reportedly killed amid fighting between the TNLA and government forces in Kyaukme Township. And earlier this month, an old woman was shot dead and three others injured in Namkham Township. Both incidents occurred in northern Shan State.
“We can’t do anything with this fighting going on,” said Shan lawmaker Nang Jarm Hom. “We are helping the villagers as much as we can. But what we really need is an end to these hostilities.”
By Shan Herald Agency for News (SHAN)

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: 300 villagers displaced as Burmese army, TNLA clash in Namtu | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
A series of clashes between Burmese government forces and the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) have compelled some 300 villagers in Namtu Township, northern Shan State, to flee their homes.
“Our people had to abandon their homes because of the fighting,” said Nang Jarm Hom, an MP from the Shan Nationalities League for Democracy (SNLD) representing Namtu Township Constituency No. 2. “Around 300 fled to Namtu town on May 11 from Zaikhao tract.”
They are now staying at Shwe Minta Temple, she added.
“The only thing we can do now is use the food that was previously donated to take care of them,” Nang Jarm Hom told Shan Herald. “But we need humanitarian support because the villagers who fled fighting in Mantong Township last year are still here. Now more refugees are pouring in. They need help. They need supplies.”The TNLA recently posted on its News and Information Department website that fighting broke out in Namtu, Mongmit, Kutkai and Mantong Township between its troops, the Burmese army and the Restoration Council of Shan State/Shan State Army (RCSS/SSA).The TNLA, also known as the Palaung Army, was among six armed groups – alongside the Myanmar Nationalities Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA); Arakan Army (AA); Lahu Democratic Union (LDU); Arakan National Congress (ANC); and Wa National Organization (WNO) – that was excluded from signing the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement in 2015 with the then ruling government led by President Thein Sein.According to Myanmar Peace Monitor, in 2016 a total of 309 clashes broke out between the Burmese armed forces and TNLA troops in northern Shan State.On April 10, Shan Herald reported that three villagers were reportedly killed amid fighting between the TNLA and government forces in Kyaukme Township. And earlier this month, an old woman was shot dead and three others injured in Namkham Township. Both incidents occurred in northern Shan State.“We can’t do anything with this fighting going on,” said Shan lawmaker Nang Jarm Hom. “We are helping the villagers as much as we can. But what we really need is an end to these hostilities.”By Shan Herald Agency for News (SHAN)
“The only thing we can do now is use the food that was previously donated to take care of them,” Nang Jarm Hom told Shan Herald. “But we need humanitarian support because the villagers who fled fighting in Mantong Township last year are still here. Now more refugees are pouring in. They need help. They need supplies.”
The TNLA recently posted on its News and Information Department website that fighting broke out in Namtu, Mongmit, Kutkai and Mantong Township between its troops, the Burmese army and the Restoration Council of Shan State/Shan State Army (RCSS/SSA).
The TNLA, also known as the Palaung Army, was among six armed groups – alongside the Myanmar Nationalities Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA); Arakan Army (AA); Lahu Democratic Union (LDU); Arakan National Congress (ANC); and Wa National Organization (WNO) – that was excluded from signing the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement in 2015 with the then ruling government led by President Thein Sein.
According to Myanmar Peace Monitor, in 2016 a total of 309 clashes broke out between the Burmese armed forces and TNLA troops in northern Shan State.
On April 10, Shan Herald reported that three villagers were reportedly killed amid fighting between the TNLA and government forces in Kyaukme Township. And earlier this month, an old woman was shot dead and three others injured in Namkham Township. Both incidents occurred in northern Shan State.
“We can’t do anything with this fighting going on,” said Shan lawmaker Nang Jarm Hom. “We are helping the villagers as much as we can. But what we really need is an end to these hostilities.”
By Shan Herald Agency for News (SHAN)

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: Loading...


Title: 
Myanmar continues to strive for national reconciliation, domestic peace - Xinhua | English.news.cn

YANGON, May 1 (Xinhua) -- Myanmar has vowed to continue to strive for national reconciliation and domestic peace, setting May 24 to hold the second meeting of the 21st Century Panglong Peace Conference in Nay Pyi Taw for five days, a dialogue open to all ethnic armed groups.
It was designated at the Joint Implementation Coordination Meeting (JICM) in the capital recently, held for the first time during the incumbent government and was attended by State Counselor Aung San Suu Kyi, Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the Defense Services Vice Senior-General Soe Win, leaders of eight signatory armed groups to the Nationwide Ceasefire Accord (NCA).
The government and eight cease-fire signatory armed groups also agreed on eight points with their continued peace process which include exploration of basic policy accepted by all sides and holding of national level political dialogue with groups that have not yet been inclusive and drawing of standard of operating producer (SOP).
The JICM agreed to make coordination on undertakings during the transition period from the date of signing the NCA to reaching a union agreement.
Other agreed points include tasking the JICM to demarcate the controversial cease-fire area between the government forces and the Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS) / Shan State Army (SSA)-South and striving to bring non-ceasfire signatory groups to join the NCA.
Meanwhile, Myanmar has been holding national region-oriented and race-oriented political dialogue in regions and states across the nation since January. The latest national level political dialogue took place in Taunggyi, Myanmar's Shan state-South, in April.
Representatives from the self-administered regions and zones submitted a total of 70 papers respectively related with politics, economy, land issues and natural resources and environmental conservation which were read during the dialogue involving the government, armed groups and political parties as well as the civil societies.
The outcome of all regional dialogues will be submitted to the upcoming second meeting of the Panglong Peace Conference expected to gather about 700 representatives.
Myanmar's previous U Thein Sein's government and eight armed groups signed the NCA on Oct. 15, 2015, and the first meeting of the 21st Century Panglong Conference was held in Nay Pyi Taw in August 2016, four months after the new government led by the National League for Democracy (NLD) took office.
The first meeting of the Panglong Conference agreed to find solutions through coordination and discussions towards the goal of achieving peace.
That conference called for prompt implementation of peace without delay and coordination of diversified stances and opinions expressed in the event.
The eight signatories mainly include Kayin National Union (KNU), Arakan Liberation Party (ALP) and Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS) / Shan State Army (SSA)-South.
In the latest development, of the seven remaining non-ceasefire signatory armed groups, five, which are members of a coalition of the United Nationalities Federal Council (UNFC), proposed accession to NCA in March. They are Kayinni National Progressive Party (KNPP), New Mon State Party (NMSP), Arakan National Council (ANC), Lahu Democratic Union (LDU) and Wa National Organization (WNO).
State Counselor Aung San Suu Kyi stressed the importance of inking the NCA which she said would pave way for them to attend the upcoming second meeting of the Panglong Peace Conference.
Official media commented that the five armed groups' decision has created bright rays of hope for national reconciliation and peace which has shined a positive light on many successive eras of Myanmar history of seeking peace.
However, Aung San Suu Kyi warned that "at such a time of great importance, undesirable destructive elements and instigation intended to harm peace might emerge," urging leaders of the ethnic nationalities and her compatriots to be extremely vigilant.
With the proposed accession to NCA, there remains only two armed groups yet to follow suit, which are the Kachin Independence Organization (KIO) and the Shan State Progressive Party (SSPP) or Shan State Army (SSA)-North.
The five armed groups' promised signing of the NCA came after year-long negotiations, Aung San Suu Kyi said.
YANGON, May 1 (Xinhua) -- Myanmar has vowed to continue to strive for national reconciliation and domestic peace, setting May 24 to hold the second meeting of the 21st Century Panglong Peace Conference in Nay Pyi Taw for five days, a dialogue open to all ethnic armed groups.
It was designated at the Joint Implementation Coordination Meeting (JICM) in the capital recently, held for the first time during the incumbent government and was attended by State Counselor Aung San Suu Kyi, Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the Defense Services Vice Senior-General Soe Win, leaders of eight signatory armed groups to the Nationwide Ceasefire Accord (NCA).
The government and eight cease-fire signatory armed groups also agreed on eight points with their continued peace process which include exploration of basic policy accepted by all sides and holding of national level political dialogue with groups that have not yet been inclusive and drawing of standard of operating producer (SOP).
The JICM agreed to make coordination on undertakings during the transition period from the date of signing the NCA to reaching a union agreement.
Other agreed points include tasking the JICM to demarcate the controversial cease-fire area between the government forces and the Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS) / Shan State Army (SSA)-South and striving to bring non-ceasfire signatory groups to join the NCA.
Meanwhile, Myanmar has been holding national region-oriented and race-oriented political dialogue in regions and states across the nation since January. The latest national level political dialogue took place in Taunggyi, Myanmar's Shan state-South, in April.
Representatives from the self-administered regions and zones submitted a total of 70 papers respectively related with politics, economy, land issues and natural resources and environmental conservation which were read during the dialogue involving the government, armed groups and political parties as well as the civil societies.
The outcome of all regional dialogues will be submitted to the upcoming second meeting of the Panglong Peace Conference expected to gather about 700 representatives.
Myanmar's previous U Thein Sein's government and eight armed groups signed the NCA on Oct. 15, 2015, and the first meeting of the 21st Century Panglong Conference was held in Nay Pyi Taw in August 2016, four months after the new government led by the National League for Democracy (NLD) took office.
The first meeting of the Panglong Conference agreed to find solutions through coordination and discussions towards the goal of achieving peace.
That conference called for prompt implementation of peace without delay and coordination of diversified stances and opinions expressed in the event.
The eight signatories mainly include Kayin National Union (KNU), Arakan Liberation Party (ALP) and Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS) / Shan State Army (SSA)-South.
In the latest development, of the seven remaining non-ceasefire signatory armed groups, five, which are members of a coalition of the United Nationalities Federal Council (UNFC), proposed accession to NCA in March. They are Kayinni National Progressive Party (KNPP), New Mon State Party (NMSP), Arakan National Council (ANC), Lahu Democratic Union (LDU) and Wa National Organization (WNO).
State Counselor Aung San Suu Kyi stressed the importance of inking the NCA which she said would pave way for them to attend the upcoming second meeting of the Panglong Peace Conference.
Official media commented that the five armed groups' decision has created bright rays of hope for national reconciliation and peace which has shined a positive light on many successive eras of Myanmar history of seeking peace.
However, Aung San Suu Kyi warned that "at such a time of great importance, undesirable destructive elements and instigation intended to harm peace might emerge," urging leaders of the ethnic nationalities and her compatriots to be extremely vigilant.
With the proposed accession to NCA, there remains only two armed groups yet to follow suit, which are the Kachin Independence Organization (KIO) and the Shan State Progressive Party (SSPP) or Shan State Army (SSA)-North.
The five armed groups' promised signing of the NCA came after year-long negotiations, Aung San Suu Kyi said.
Copyright © 2000 - 2015 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.

Title:  页面没有找到 


Title:  Bangkok Post - Nine 'meth mules' slain in gunfights
PUBLISHED : 15 May 2017 at 05:17
UPDATED : 15 May 2017 at 06:14
NEWSPAPER SECTION:News
WRITER:Post Reporters
Nine armed drug courier suspects were killed and 700,000 methamphetamine pills seized in two standoffs during an anti-drug operation by security officers near the Thai-Myanmar border in Chiang Rai.
Eight of them were killed by military officers in the area late on Saturday night while the other was chased and gunned down in a forest by officers, provincial officials reported Sunday.
The dead are among 15 men who tried to smuggle the drugs into Thailand via Ban Phami, a remote village opposite Doi Sampi in Myanmar, according to an initial investigation. The group was believed to belong to a Lahu hill tribe group.
Thai authorities had been aware of their movements, so soldiers were deployed to an area near the village in tambon Wiang Phang Kham in Chiang Rai's Mae Sai district, about two kilometres from the border, to intercept drug trafficking.
The group of 15 men was spotted and ordered to stop.
However, they reportedly resisted the order and opened fire at the soldiers, which led to a gunfight that lasted more than five minutes.
An inspection, led Sunday by Chiang Rai governor Col Thongchai Mianan, found the first eight bodies of the suspects. The men had been carrying six bags containing about 600,000 speed pills.
Two M16 assault rifles and an AK47 rifle were also found next to their bodies.
During the inspection, Col Thongchai was informed the remaining suspect was killed in another gunfight with officers in a nearby forest.
Another bag of about 100,000 methamphetamine pills was found on the suspect.
'999' and 'Y1' methamphetamine tablets were being carried by the slain and captured Lahu smugglers. The drugs are made in Myanmar. (Bangkok Post file photo)
A closer look at the drugs found their packages had "Y1" and "999" inscribed on them. The evidence and an intelligence report led investigators to the conclusion that the drugs most likely belong to a Lahu group led by a major drug suspect identified only as Cha-ngoi.
According to an initial investigation, his group had influence in Doi Samsung, and Ban Punako, a village in the southern area of Myanmar's Shan State. The village lies opposite Chiang Rai's Mae Fa Luang district.
The investigators believe couriers carry drugs along a path linked with the Golden Triangle, an area notorious for drug production, located upstream of the Mekong River. It is a mountainous area shared by Myanmar, Laos and Thailand.
Ban Punako is among 10 areas in Myanmar suspected of being used to make drugs. According to media reports, half of these areas are in Ban Mao, Ban Hopang, Ban Pang Woei and Ban Tangyan in northern Shan State.
Another four are in Ban La in northern Shan State, Ban Namchan in western Shan State, Ban Tha in southern Shan State and an area of the Khun Nam Ruak drug ring, which is opposite Chiang Rai's Mae Sai district.
Thailand has so far worked with Myanmar, China and countries in the mainland Southeast Asia under the Safe Mekong Joint Operation, part of the governments' efforts to crack down on drug trafficking in the region.
Past operations by this multi-national cooperation include the confiscation of 21.3 tonnes of drug precursors believed to be used to produce 250 million methamphetamine pills in Myanmar.
By subscribing, you accept theterms and conditionsin ourprivacy policy.

Title: 300 villagers displaced as Burmese army, TNLA clash in Namtu | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
A series of clashes between Burmese government forces and the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) have compelled some 300 villagers in Namtu Township, northern Shan State, to flee their homes.
“Our people had to abandon their homes because of the fighting,” said Nang Jarm Hom, an MP from the Shan Nationalities League for Democracy (SNLD) representing Namtu Township Constituency No. 2. “Around 300 fled to Namtu town on May 11 from Zaikhao tract.”
They are now staying at Shwe Minta Temple, she added.
“The only thing we can do now is use the food that was previously donated to take care of them,” Nang Jarm Hom told Shan Herald. “But we need humanitarian support because the villagers who fled fighting in Mantong Township last year are still here. Now more refugees are pouring in. They need help. They need supplies.”The TNLA recently posted on its News and Information Department website that fighting broke out in Namtu, Mongmit, Kutkai and Mantong Township between its troops, the Burmese army and the Restoration Council of Shan State/Shan State Army (RCSS/SSA).The TNLA, also known as the Palaung Army, was among six armed groups – alongside the Myanmar Nationalities Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA); Arakan Army (AA); Lahu Democratic Union (LDU); Arakan National Congress (ANC); and Wa National Organization (WNO) – that was excluded from signing the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement in 2015 with the then ruling government led by President Thein Sein.According to Myanmar Peace Monitor, in 2016 a total of 309 clashes broke out between the Burmese armed forces and TNLA troops in northern Shan State.On April 10, Shan Herald reported that three villagers were reportedly killed amid fighting between the TNLA and government forces in Kyaukme Township. And earlier this month, an old woman was shot dead and three others injured in Namkham Township. Both incidents occurred in northern Shan State.“We can’t do anything with this fighting going on,” said Shan lawmaker Nang Jarm Hom. “We are helping the villagers as much as we can. But what we really need is an end to these hostilities.”By Shan Herald Agency for News (SHAN)
“The only thing we can do now is use the food that was previously donated to take care of them,” Nang Jarm Hom told Shan Herald. “But we need humanitarian support because the villagers who fled fighting in Mantong Township last year are still here. Now more refugees are pouring in. They need help. They need supplies.”
The TNLA recently posted on its News and Information Department website that fighting broke out in Namtu, Mongmit, Kutkai and Mantong Township between its troops, the Burmese army and the Restoration Council of Shan State/Shan State Army (RCSS/SSA).
The TNLA, also known as the Palaung Army, was among six armed groups – alongside the Myanmar Nationalities Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA); Arakan Army (AA); Lahu Democratic Union (LDU); Arakan National Congress (ANC); and Wa National Organization (WNO) – that was excluded from signing the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement in 2015 with the then ruling government led by President Thein Sein.
According to Myanmar Peace Monitor, in 2016 a total of 309 clashes broke out between the Burmese armed forces and TNLA troops in northern Shan State.
On April 10, Shan Herald reported that three villagers were reportedly killed amid fighting between the TNLA and government forces in Kyaukme Township. And earlier this month, an old woman was shot dead and three others injured in Namkham Township. Both incidents occurred in northern Shan State.
“We can’t do anything with this fighting going on,” said Shan lawmaker Nang Jarm Hom. “We are helping the villagers as much as we can. But what we really need is an end to these hostilities.”
By Shan Herald Agency for News (SHAN)

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: 300 villagers displaced as Burmese army, TNLA clash in Namtu | Burma News International
Burma News International (BNI) is a network of 15 independent media and news organizations based in and around Burma
A series of clashes between Burmese government forces and the Ta’ang National Liberation Army (TNLA) have compelled some 300 villagers in Namtu Township, northern Shan State, to flee their homes.
“Our people had to abandon their homes because of the fighting,” said Nang Jarm Hom, an MP from the Shan Nationalities League for Democracy (SNLD) representing Namtu Township Constituency No. 2. “Around 300 fled to Namtu town on May 11 from Zaikhao tract.”
They are now staying at Shwe Minta Temple, she added.
“The only thing we can do now is use the food that was previously donated to take care of them,” Nang Jarm Hom told Shan Herald. “But we need humanitarian support because the villagers who fled fighting in Mantong Township last year are still here. Now more refugees are pouring in. They need help. They need supplies.”The TNLA recently posted on its News and Information Department website that fighting broke out in Namtu, Mongmit, Kutkai and Mantong Township between its troops, the Burmese army and the Restoration Council of Shan State/Shan State Army (RCSS/SSA).The TNLA, also known as the Palaung Army, was among six armed groups – alongside the Myanmar Nationalities Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA); Arakan Army (AA); Lahu Democratic Union (LDU); Arakan National Congress (ANC); and Wa National Organization (WNO) – that was excluded from signing the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement in 2015 with the then ruling government led by President Thein Sein.According to Myanmar Peace Monitor, in 2016 a total of 309 clashes broke out between the Burmese armed forces and TNLA troops in northern Shan State.On April 10, Shan Herald reported that three villagers were reportedly killed amid fighting between the TNLA and government forces in Kyaukme Township. And earlier this month, an old woman was shot dead and three others injured in Namkham Township. Both incidents occurred in northern Shan State.“We can’t do anything with this fighting going on,” said Shan lawmaker Nang Jarm Hom. “We are helping the villagers as much as we can. But what we really need is an end to these hostilities.”By Shan Herald Agency for News (SHAN)
“The only thing we can do now is use the food that was previously donated to take care of them,” Nang Jarm Hom told Shan Herald. “But we need humanitarian support because the villagers who fled fighting in Mantong Township last year are still here. Now more refugees are pouring in. They need help. They need supplies.”
The TNLA recently posted on its News and Information Department website that fighting broke out in Namtu, Mongmit, Kutkai and Mantong Township between its troops, the Burmese army and the Restoration Council of Shan State/Shan State Army (RCSS/SSA).
The TNLA, also known as the Palaung Army, was among six armed groups – alongside the Myanmar Nationalities Democratic Alliance Army (MNDAA); Arakan Army (AA); Lahu Democratic Union (LDU); Arakan National Congress (ANC); and Wa National Organization (WNO) – that was excluded from signing the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement in 2015 with the then ruling government led by President Thein Sein.
According to Myanmar Peace Monitor, in 2016 a total of 309 clashes broke out between the Burmese armed forces and TNLA troops in northern Shan State.
On April 10, Shan Herald reported that three villagers were reportedly killed amid fighting between the TNLA and government forces in Kyaukme Township. And earlier this month, an old woman was shot dead and three others injured in Namkham Township. Both incidents occurred in northern Shan State.
“We can’t do anything with this fighting going on,” said Shan lawmaker Nang Jarm Hom. “We are helping the villagers as much as we can. But what we really need is an end to these hostilities.”
By Shan Herald Agency for News (SHAN)

© Copyright 2024 Burma News International.All rights reserved.

Title: 
Myanmar's peace commission negotiates deals with armed groups on signing ceasefire pact - Xinhua | English.news.cn

YANGON, May 7 (Xinhua) -- Myanmar's Peace Commission is negotiating deals with non-ceasefire signatory armed groups to the Nationwide Ceasefire Accord (NCA) so as to enable them to attend the Second Meeting of the 21st Century Panglong Peace Conference later this month.
The government's commission said in a statement released on Sunday that the negotiation, which took place in Chiang Mai, Thailand, covered areas proposed by the armed groups' Delegation for Political Negotiation (DPN), for them to sign the ceasefire pact.
The DPN consists of seven non-ceasefire signatories mainly the Kachin Independence Organization (KIO), Kayinni National Progressive Party (KNPP) and New Mon State Party (NMSP).
Myanmar's previous government and eight armed groups mainly involving Kayin National Union (KNU), Arakan Liberation Party (ALP) and Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS)/Shan State Army (SSA)-South signed the NCA on Oct. 15, 2015.
As part of its efforts for national reconciliation and peace, the first meeting of the 21st Century Panglong Conference was held in Nay Pyi Taw in August 2016 and the second of its kind is scheduled for May 24, a nationwide dialogue open to all ethnic armed groups.
The government is also trying to bring in those non-NCA signatories, which are members of a coalition of the United Nationalities Federal Council (UNFC), to join the peace process.
YANGON, May 7 (Xinhua) -- Myanmar's Peace Commission is negotiating deals with non-ceasefire signatory armed groups to the Nationwide Ceasefire Accord (NCA) so as to enable them to attend the Second Meeting of the 21st Century Panglong Peace Conference later this month.
The government's commission said in a statement released on Sunday that the negotiation, which took place in Chiang Mai, Thailand, covered areas proposed by the armed groups' Delegation for Political Negotiation (DPN), for them to sign the ceasefire pact.
The DPN consists of seven non-ceasefire signatories mainly the Kachin Independence Organization (KIO), Kayinni National Progressive Party (KNPP) and New Mon State Party (NMSP).
Myanmar's previous government and eight armed groups mainly involving Kayin National Union (KNU), Arakan Liberation Party (ALP) and Restoration Council of Shan State (RCSS)/Shan State Army (SSA)-South signed the NCA on Oct. 15, 2015.
As part of its efforts for national reconciliation and peace, the first meeting of the 21st Century Panglong Conference was held in Nay Pyi Taw in August 2016 and the second of its kind is scheduled for May 24, a nationwide dialogue open to all ethnic armed groups.
The government is also trying to bring in those non-NCA signatories, which are members of a coalition of the United Nationalities Federal Council (UNFC), to join the peace process.
Copyright © 2000 - 2015 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.

Title: No title found


Title: Myanmar And The China Factor – Analysis – Eurasia Review
A Journal of Analysis and News

An overview rendition of the Myitsone Dam in Burma. Source: Wikipedia Commons.
BySAAG
By Dr. S. Chandrasekharan
It is well known that three main objectives of the government of Myanmar led by Councillor Aung San Suu Kyi are ethnic reconciliation, economic development and constitutional changes. Of these, the first objective of ethnic reconciliation has the top most priority and dearly held by Suu Kyi in memory of her father Gen Aung San who was responsible in making a beginning for ethnic reconciliation with the Panglong Agreement in the year 1947.
The second session of the new twenty first Century Panglong Conference after many postponements is due to begin on May 24, 2017 at Naypyidaw.
It is in this connection that the recent developments in Myanmar are of importance and the China factor looms large. Suu Kyi is due to visit Beijing soon in June in connection with the One Belt One Road conference and these problems would be bearing heavily in her mind in dealing with the Chinese.
Seven ethnic Armed Oganizations in defiance of the government’s call for a nation wide ceasefire agreement, met at Pangshang, the strong hold of the UWSA and formed an independent political negotiation committee to represent them for talks with the government to seek a “new approach for the political dialogue’. It rejected the path laid down by the government with a Nation Wide Ceasefire Agreement to begin with. The political leadership of the negotiating committee is to be held by the UWSA Chairman Bao Youxiang, an ethnic Chinese.
The constituents of the new groups are, first the leader- the Wa group- the UWSA that is close to the Chinese and armed by the Chinese, with the second largest ethnic insurgent group, the KIO, and the SSPP/SSA-N ( Shan State Progress party/Shan State Army North).
Four other groups of lesser importance but very active and fighting on the Chinese border with the Tatmadaw, are TNLA (Ta’ang National Liberation Army), the NDAA (National Democratic Alliance Army- the Mongla group), the MNDAA (Myanmar National Democratic Alliance Army -the Kokang groups) and the AA- (Arakan Army).
It is reported that the KIA has followed it up by leaving the UNFC (United National Federation Council) which is still involved with peace talks with the government. Thus the KIA appears to have finally given up the Nationwide Ceasefire Agreement route and aligned itself with the WA group totally which should be considered as a significant development. This would also mean that the KIA would now be indirectly controlled by the UWSA and thus in turn by China. It is to be noted, that in the ongoing conflict between the KIA and the Burmese Army, the longer it continues, the greater will be the chances of the KIA being completely dependent on the WA group for sustenance.
With the peace conference scheduled to take place very soon, it not surprising that forces are at work to sabotage the conference. Fighting has escalated in the last two weeks between the Burmese Army- the Tatmadaw and the Northern Alliance. There are daily clashes and the Burmese Army are said to be using artillery. The northern Alliance that consists of KIA, MNDAA, TNLA and the AA claim that the offensive of the Burmese Army was more to diminish the Suu Kyi’s leadership of the Second Panglong Conference.
The ability to resist by the Northern Alliance the so called offensive of the Burmese Army would very much depend on the support the groups get in terms of equipment and space on UWSA which in turn would depend on the Chinese. Would it be then correct to say that the Chinese are aware of the ensuing diminution of the influence and authority of Suu Kyi in the event of a failure of the second Panglong Conference? If so are they in a position to persuade the groups to join the peace talks and not call for a separate peace and political dialogue and thus scuttle the nation wide peace agreement and the dialogue that is to follow?
A Reuter report indicates that China is seriously pushing Myanmar to give it an 85 percent stake in a strategically important sea port at Kyaukphyu port. The development of the port is said to be an important component of the One Belt One Road venture of the Chinese. The proposed Chinese stake claimed by China’s CITIC group more than 50/50 joint venture offered by the Burmese government and rejected by the company. Well placed sources have told Reuters in April that China would be willing to abandon the claim on the unfinished controversial Myitsone dam and would in return expect concessions that would include the Kyakphyu port.
Allowing the Chinese 85 percent of the stake would result in Chinese taking total control of the port and this is not likely to be acceptable to the local people. The reasons given for local opposition would include the failure to involve the local community in any meaningful participation, income, loss of land and access to neighbourhood. In the proposed special economic zone proposed by China another 20,000 people are at a risk of losing their homes and livelihoods just as it happened in Myitsone Dam.
The protests that are likely to follow in giving the overall control of the project would be similar to an unfair deal that is being made out at Hambantota port where the Sri Lankan Government is proposing to give up 80 percent of equity valued at 1.08 billion in view of debt to the China Merchant Holdings Groups (CMHG), a fully owned Chinese Government Organisation.
What is seen in Myanmar is the pervasive predatory moves by China to control effectively the ethnic insurgency and economic development.
It is said that the One Belt One Road initiative with investments of over 57 billion US Dollars including the development of Gwadar port is going to cost heavily to Pakistan at the time of return of the loans.
While Pakistan has already become a colony of China, it remains to be seen whether a proud nation like Myanmar will fall into such debt traps.
SAAG is the South Asia Analysis Group, a non-profit, non-commercial think tank. The objective of SAAG is to advance strategic analysis and contribute to the expansion of knowledge of Indian and International security and promote public understanding.
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Name*
Email*
Website

By Tanya Aggarwal The perils of the dark web and its threat to India recently became apparent after the University
Poor Paul Globe, searched the GLOBE and all he could find was a role as a political #Hore for the…
Repeat essay, LOL...you occupied Baluchistan land, sold it to your master just like you sold parts of Indian Kashmir. You…
This is how they treat non-muslins in Islamic countries., state sponsored. No Muslims around the globe voice but non-muslim overwhelmingly…
The Indian author final paragraph regarding escalation, might have been taken more seriously, if it were not for the presence…
The longer the war prolonged in Ukraine on behest of US-NATO the greater the saber-rattling by President Putin of a…

Title: Myanmar Morning News For May 8
ByStella-maris EwudoluonMay 8, 2017
32 foreign investment proposals under scrutinyThe Myanmar Investment Commission (MIC) says it is scrutinising 32 foreign investment proposals worth US$1.5 billion and 20 domestic proposals worth Ks492 billion.— Eleven
Five electro-diesel locomotives arrivesFive electro-diesel locomotives with 2000 HP purchased from China arrived at Thilawa Port on 1st May and are unloaded from ship on 6th May.— Global New Light Of Myanmar
Myanmar ride-hailing firm aims to reach 10,000 drivers by 2017Kyaw Min Swe, senior director and head of Oway Ride, at an exclusive interview(Photo-Khine Kyaw,Myanmar Eleven)The mission and vision of Oway Ride, Myanmar’s first ride-hailing application, will not be overwhelmed by the entry of foreign players like Uber and Grab, as the local firm aims to cooperate with nearly 10,000 taxi drivers by the end of this year.— Eleven
Myanmar’s Shwedagon Pagoda attracts over 40,000 foreign visitorsMore than 40,000 foreign tourists visited Myanmar’s famous Shwedagon Pagoda in Yangon in April, the first month of the 2017-18 fiscal year (FY), said the Pagoda’s Board of Trustees on Sunday.— Gulf News
1998 cultural heritage law to be amended before Bagan added to World Heritage listThe government has a plan to amend the 1998 Protection and Preservation of Cultural Heritage Regions Law as it no longer suited current situations, said Union Minister for Religious Affairs and Culture Thura U Aung Ko.— Global New Light Of Myanmar
Liberia/Myanmar establish diplomatic relationsThe Governments of Liberia and the Union of Myanmar have established diplomatic relations between the two countries. A dispatch from Beijing, People’s Republic of China (PRC) says, Mr. Dudley McKinley Thomas, Liberia’s Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the People’s Republic of China and Mr. Thit Linn Ohn, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar to the People’s Republic of China signed the Joint Communiqué on behalf of their respective Governments at an impressive ceremony held at the Embassy of the Union of Myanmar in downtown Beijing.— The New Dawn Liberia
Myanmar, France chambers of commerce sign pact for stronger economic tiesThough investment by French firms in Myanmar has accounted for less than 1 per cent of the total forฌeign direct investment, the figures are likely to surge over the next few years as the Union of Myanmar Federation of Chamber of Commerce and Industry on Friday signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with CCI French Myanmar.— The Nation
KIA quits rebel coalition: reportIt is rumoured that the Kachin Independence Army (KIA) has sent a letter telling the United Nationalities Federation Council (UNFC), which is in peace talks with the government, that it is leaving the bloc.— Eleven
12,000 stimulant tablets seized in MaungtawPolice seized 12,000 stimulant tablets found in Shwezarmyauk village in Maungtaw township, Rakhine State.— Global New Light Of Myanmar
A reckoning looms on human rightsThe arguments being advanced against the UN fact-finding mission to Myanmar lack weight and credibility.— Frontier Myanmar

Feature photoGero Birkenmaier
Find our previous morning news feature photos in the AEC News TodayMorning News Feature Photos gallerywhere you will find a pictorial display of daily life throughout the Asean Economic Community (AEC).

In an era of hectic schedules where time is precious, theAEC News Todaymobile app enables you to stay up to date with the latest Asean news on governance and policy issues affecting the Asean Community while you are on the move and whenever you have a few minutes to spare.
See full details, including our AEC News Today Mobile App Privacy Statement here:Stay up to Date With The AEC News Today Mobile App.

Download theAEC News Todaymobile app from Google play or the App stores by clicking the icons below.







Myanmar morning news byAEC News Todayis your one stop source for Myanmar news on matters of governance and policies affecting Asean business communities. It is published M-F byAEC News Today: Governance, not government; policies not politics.




Myanmar Morning News For May 8added byStella-maris EwudoluonMay 8, 2017View all posts by Stella-maris Ewudolu →

Between November 2010 and February 2012 she was a staff writer at Daylight Online, Nigeria writing on health, fashion, and relationships. From 2010 – 2017 she worked as a freelance screen writer for ‘Nollywood’, Nigeria.
She joined AEC News Today in December 2016.
*indicates requiredEmail Address*



Your email address will not be published.

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.


Δ
*indicates requiredEmail Address*



Accessibility Tools

Title:  Bangkok Post - Suu Kyi must let help in
PUBLISHED : 13 May 2017 at 04:00
NEWSPAPER SECTION:News
WRITER:Editorial
Myanmar's Aung San Suu Kyi should accept a call by the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) to allow its aid workers access to people caught up in a conflict that has displaced tens of thousands.
The world expects Myanmar to adhere to universal humanitarian principles.
ICRC chief Peter Maurer who is in Myanmar this week stressed that the ICRC should be provided with access to people in need so they are able to carry out their assignments properly.
During his stay, Mr Maurer visited the northwestern state of Rakhine, where he toured camps set up almost five years ago to house those displaced by communal clashes between Rohingya Muslims and ethnic Rakhine Buddhists.
Yet, he did not visit the northern part of the state, where a security operation in response to insurgent attacks in October sent an estimated 74,000 people fleeing to Bangladesh. Troops and police have been accused of killing and raping Rohingya, who are being denied citizenship in Myanmar and are seen as interlopers from Bangladesh by the Myanmar government.
The violent crackdown on Muslim protesters in this troubled region last year escalated the Rohingya crisis and put the solidarity of the 10-member Asean block to the test when Malaysia, a Muslim-majority country, sensationalised the incident and condemned Nay Pyi Taw for restricting assistance from outside and largely blocked the media from reporting on it.
The Myanmar government only recently allowed international aid workers to visit affected villages, under the condition that they are accompanied by government officials. A separate ICRC delegation visited detainees in the area last month.
Mr Maurer was scheduled to visit Kachin State in the northern part of the country this week, but the government denied a request to visit the Kachin Independence Army (KIA) stronghold of Laiza, prompting him to raise concerns.
The ICRC is assisting a civilian hospital there, but staff have not been able to visit since fighting between the KIA and government forces broke out eight months ago.
Mr Maurer was scheduled to meet Myanmar officials in Nay Pyi Taw yesterday and will meet Ms Suu Kyi in Beijing during an international conference next week.
Former political prisoner and democracy icon, Ms Suu Kyi led her party, the National League for Democracy, to power when she won a landslide victory in the landmark election of 2015.
As the current constitution does not allow her to take on the top cabinet job, Ms Suu Kyi became the de facto head of the civilian administration. But she still has to tread with care in tackling difficult issues such as the Rohingya crisis and the stalled peace process in order to maintain a steady relationship with Myanmar generals.
Obviously, her priority of securing peace with autonomy-seeking minority insurgents has been set back by the fighting that has displaced an estimated 160,000 more people since the transition, according to UN data.
Mr Maurer said access to conflict areas was "always a difficult equation of security considerations versus needs of people for assistance and protection," but he was "unsatisfied" by the limits in place in Myanmar.
He has every right to feel upset, and accordingly escalated his call for more access that, he said, would be in the interests of the government and the armed forces.
The de facto leader of Myanmar should be aware that the world is watching what is going on in the country with grave concern and and that it expects Nay Pyi Taw to react positively to the call to allow aid workers to do their jobs and save lives.
Editorial
Bangkok Post editorial column
These editorials represent Bangkok Post thoughts about current issues and situations.
These editorials represent Bangkok Post thoughts about current issues and situations.
Email :anchaleek@bangkokpost.co.th
By subscribing, you accept theterms and conditionsin ourprivacy policy.