Title: DRC records 17 new Ebola cases in nation's 3rd-largest outbreak | CIDRAP
UNMEER, Martine Perret / Flickr cc
Over the weekend and today, officials recorded 17 more cases of Ebola and 10 more deaths in the ongoing outbreak in the far eastern reaches of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
Eleven of the new cases were in Beni, the outbreak epicenter, and the remaining 6 were recorded in nearby Butembo. The new infections bring the total number of cases to 274, including 139 deaths. Thirty-two suspected cases are under investigation.
At least one of the deaths over the weekend was a community death in Butembo, DRC officials said. Community deaths pose a greater threat of virus spread than those that occur in a hospital or Ebola treatment center because of the likelihood of added exposure.
From Oct 22 to Oct 28, DRC officials confirmed 36 new cases (28 in Beni and 8 in Butembo) and 19 deaths.
Though the outbreak is small compared with the 2014-2016 West African outbreak (which saw more than 28,000 cases), Congolese officials noted it has now surpassed the DRC's Luebo (Mweka) outbreak in 2007, when there were 265 recorded cases and 187 deaths.
The current outbreak, the country's 10th, is now the DRC's third largest, following the 1976 outbreak in Yambuku (318 cases) and 1995's outbreak in Kikwit (315 cases).
The outbreak is now the world's sixth largest since Ebola was first recorded in 1976.
Yesterday, 8,000 young people in Butembo and Beni were trained in Ebola response efforts, including a demonstration of a safe and dignified burial.  Officials said the efforts were meant to "increase the awareness actions for young people who are often at the root of resistance because of a lack of knowledge of the disease and its danger."
As of today, vaccination totals have reached 24,142 people in the DRC, including 12,464 in Beni and 1,295 in Butembo.
See also:
Oct 27 DRCreport
Oct 28 DRCreport
Oct 29 DRCreport
CDC Ebola outbreak diseasemap
Also, sequencing confirmed N1 and identified two HA mutations, one of which could affect vaccine development.
The findings come on the cusp of the Northern Hemisphere flu and respiratory syncytial virus seasons and rising US COVID-19 cases.
A study suggesting thatnirmatrelvir/ritonavir and molnupiravir don't prevent severe COVID-19 outcomes or long COVID is also being called into question.
Before March 2024, H5N1 had not been detected in 1,337 wastewater samples analyzed by the team.
The new findings come from the ongoing RECOVER trial and build on results seen in a 2023 trial.
While sequencing shows similarity to the virus in cattle, the epi investigation might not be able to pinpoint a source.
Wastewater levels are still high, but some indicators such as hospitalizations trended downward.
The case follows two local cases reported in 2023, one in Pasadena and the other in Long Beach.
Wastewater levels are still high, but like other markers are showing a downward trend.
The CDC received reports of 22 more imported cases over the past week, raising the total to 74 from 5 states.
Help make CIDRAP's vital work possible
CIDRAP - Center for Infectious Disease Research & PolicyResearch and Innovation Office, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN
Email us
© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights Reserved.The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer
Research and Innovation Office|Contact U of M|Privacy Policy
Newsletter subscribe

Title: Former Eagles cornerback announces retirement from NFL - Bleeding Green Nation
Filed under:
So long.
FormerPhiladelphia EaglescornerbackDominique Rodgers-Cromartieannounced his retirement from the NFL on Tuesday morning via hisofficial Instagram account. With theOakland Raidersdropping to 1-6 after losing in Week 8, the 32-year-old decided it was time to call it a career.
Today i retire, today my nfl journey ends, and i thank god for keep me all these years. A kid with one kid and no college offers lasted 11 years in the NFL. I played inSuper Bowls, pro bowls, n did many more in this leauge. I’m at peace with my decision. Y’all may not understand and that’s kool!!! I wanna thank everyone for their support. Never forget MR. Ooouu himself. Yessuh!!!
DRC finished his 11-year career with 449 tackles, 146 passes defensed, 30 interceptions, seven forced fumbles, six defensive touchdowns, and 2.5 sacks. The No. 16 overall pick in the 2008NFL Draftmade the Pro Bowl twice and was named second-team All-Pro in 2016.
The Eagles were just one of the five teams that DRC played for. He originally began his career with theCardinalsbefore Philadelphia tradedKevin Kolb(!) to Arizona for DRC and a second-round draft pick. Remember when theEagles leaked DRC’s jerseyprior to the trade? That was right after the lockout ended back in 2011 and the Eagles made a bunch of crazy moves (see: Dream Team). Acquiring DRC made everyone thought the Eagles were out of the running forNnamdi Asomughabut nope, they got him too. And it worked out so well! (It didn’t.)
The Eagles opted not to re-sign DRC with Chip Kelly taking over as Eagles head coach in 2013. He signed a one-year contract with theBroncosand made it to the Super Bowl with Denver but they lost the big game. DRC then returned to the NFC East to play for theGiantsfrom 2014 through 2017. The Giants cut him earlier this year and DRC ended up signing with the Raiders before ultimately retiring.
DRC was an interesting character. He was clearly talented but questions arose about his effort and “love for the game” at times. A former Eagles employee once told me that Andy Reid wished he was ... more competitive.
Anyway, here’s wishing DRC the best in retirement. He now has more time to drive around in his really cool car.
Check your inbox for a welcome email.
Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again.
Gambling Problem? Call 1-800-GAMBLER (1-800-426-2537). Hope is here.GamblingHelpLineMA.orgor call(800) 327-5050for 24/7 support (MA). Visitwww.mdgamblinghelp.org(MD). Call877-8HOPE-NYor text HOPENY (467369) (NY). 21+ (18+ D.C.) and present in select states (for KS, in affiliation with Kansas Star Casino). Call1-888-789-7777or visitccpg.org/chat(CT) or visitFanDuel.com/RG.

Title: UNHCR DR Congo Factsheet - 30 September 2018 - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWeb
DR Congo+ 11 more
537,853refugees and asylum seekers in DRC, among them 52% are women.
99.3%of refugees in DRC live in rural areas, and 74% live outside refugee camps or settlements.
27,011refugees voluntary repatriated, in safety and dignity, from DRC last three years with UNHCR support.
Working with Partners
■ Together with the DRC Government, through counterpart, the National Commission for Refugees (CNR), UNHCR ensures international protection and delivery of multisectorial assistance to persons of concern. UNHCR closely collaborates with UN Agencies and directly works with 16 national and international implementing partners (ACTION AID, ACTED, ADES, ADSSE, AIDES, AIRD, ADRA, COOPI, CNR, DRC,INTERSOS, NRC, SAVE CONGO, TSF and WAR CHILD NL and WAR CHILD UK) as well as many operational partners in the DRC.
■ Within the cluster system, UNHCR leads the Protection Cluster and co-leads the Protection and Prevention component of the National Strategy on SGBV. UNHCR also leads the Shelter Working Group within the Shelter/NFI Cluster, co-leads the Camp Coordination and Camp Management Working Group jointly with IOM, and co-leads the National Cash Working Group jointly with UNOCHA.
Sudan+ 6 more
CAR+ 2 more
Sudan+ 6 more
Sudan+ 8 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Fresher Supply Chain Assistant – Procurement International NGO Jobs - Danish Refugee Council (DRC)



Job Title:  Program Director Organisation: Habitat for Humanity Uganda (HFHU) Duty…
Job Title:   Brand Manager – Broadcast   Organisation: Nation Media Group…
Job Title:    Unit Manager (5 Job Vacancies) Organisation: ICEA LION…
Job Title:   Monitoring and Evaluation Officer (United Nations Volunteer Jobs)…
Job Title:   Executive Assistant (Several Admin Jobs) Organisation: Mastercard Foundation Duty…
Job Title:  Assistant Accountant (Fresher Jobs) Organization: New Vision Printing and Publishing…

For employers, please send your adverts and inquiries to ugandanjobline@gmail.com
Popular Jobs5 Unit Manager Jobs – ICEA LION Life Assurance3 min readJob Title:    Unit Manager (5 Job Vacancies) Organisation: ICEA LIONRead MoreFresher Membership Relations Officer Jobs – United Nations Staff Savings and Credit Cooperative Society Limited (UNS-SACCO)6 min readJob Title:       Membership Relations Officer (MRO) (Fresher Jobs) Organisation: United NationsRead MoreSecurity Coordinator – Oil & Gas Jobs – NFT Consult Limited4 min readJob Title:  Security Coordinator – Oil & Gas Organisation: NFT ConsultRead MoreHead of Sales and Marketing Jobs – Zagro2 min readJob Title:    Head of Sales and Marketing Organisation: Zagro Duty Station:  Kampala, UgandaRead MoreRegional Operations Leader Jobs – WASSHA Africa Uganda Ltd4 min readJob Title:  Regional Operations Leader   Organisation: WASSHA Africa UgandaRead More
Job Title:    Unit Manager (5 Job Vacancies) Organisation: ICEA LIONRead More
Job Title:       Membership Relations Officer (MRO) (Fresher Jobs) Organisation: United NationsRead More
Job Title:  Security Coordinator – Oil & Gas Organisation: NFT ConsultRead More
Job Title:    Head of Sales and Marketing Organisation: Zagro Duty Station:  Kampala, UgandaRead More
Job Title:  Regional Operations Leader   Organisation: WASSHA Africa UgandaRead More




Title: The Star
This page doesn’t seem to exist. You might have followed a bad link or mistyped the address, feel free to try again.
Advertise with us: Call 0711 046 000·[email protected]


Title: Ebola death toll rises to 200 in Congo
Today's E-Paper
Web Stories
Shorts
Updated on:21 October,2018 07:31 PM IST  |  KinshasaIANS|
The DRC authorities declared the outbreak in North Kivu province on August 1


The death toll in the Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) has risen to 200, the Health Ministry has said.ADVERTISEMENTAccording to statistics released by the Ministry on Saturday, of the 200 cases confirmed in Beni and surrounding areas, 117 have died of the virus while 61 others recovered after treatment, Xinhua news agency reported.The DRC authorities declared the outbreak in North Kivu province on August 1. It was also reported in the northern province of Ituri.The World Health Organization said the 10th Ebola outbreak in DRC does not currently constitute a public health emergency of international concern.Catch up on all the latestCrime, National, International and Hatke newshere.Also download the new mid-dayAndroidandiOSapps to get latest updatesThis story has been sourced from a third party syndicated feed, agencies. Except for the change in headline, the story has been provided "AS-IS," "AS AVAILABLE, without any verification or editing from our side. Mid-day accepts no responsibility or liability for its dependability, trustworthiness, reliability and data of the text. Mid-day management/mid-day.com reserves the sole right to alter, delete or remove (without notice) the content in its absolute discretion for any reason whatsoever.
The death toll in the Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) has risen to 200, the Health Ministry has said.
ADVERTISEMENT
According to statistics released by the Ministry on Saturday, of the 200 cases confirmed in Beni and surrounding areas, 117 have died of the virus while 61 others recovered after treatment, Xinhua news agency reported.
The DRC authorities declared the outbreak in North Kivu province on August 1. It was also reported in the northern province of Ituri.

The World Health Organization said the 10th Ebola outbreak in DRC does not currently constitute a public health emergency of international concern.
Catch up on all the latestCrime, National, International and Hatke newshere.Also download the new mid-dayAndroidandiOSapps to get latest updates

• This is our original content. Please fill up the form for authorized use of the content.

Captcha Code
>

ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT

ADVERTISEMENT

Title: AFCON LATEST: Zimbabwe Warriors vs DRC..Live Scores Updates..Final Result Zim Win | Zw News Zimbabwe
Select Page
Oct 13, 2018|Sport
Latest Results: FULL TIME  Zimbabwe2( Pfumbidzai, Musona)RDC1

RDC 1-2 ZimbabweRefresh page
Zimbabwe Win 2-1…Go Warriors GOALLLLLLLLLLL
90 + 4′ Referee blows final whistle..
90 +2′ DRC Scores its 2-1..Bolasie header
90′ Zimbabwe hold on for 3 precious points and they resist wave after wave of  DRC attacks
80′ DRC attacks Zimbabwe goal area ..warriors hold on
73′RED CARDKnowledge Musona ..a needless foul in  his own half
72′ Zim sub: Dzvukamanja comes in for Mutizwa
69′ Goal!!! Musona doubles the lead for the Warriors.
66′ Sub: Karuru replaces Tafadzwa Katinyu
62′ Congo breaks ..almost score but the strike tripped with the goal at mercy
58′ Zimbabwe substitution..limping Marvelous Nakamba replaced by Marshal Munetsi. He got injured  first half
55′ Freekick to DRC, Bolasie takes it, cleared.
54′ Cornerkick to DRC, cleared.
53′ DRC Sub: Bolasie comes in for Botaka.
50′ DRC with chance but the long range effort goes wide.
49′ Second Half underway…Congo pressing us hard..they desperately need an equaliser
5′ Three minutes added.
45′ DRC get two successive coner kicks but Zim clear their lines.
40′ Play temporarily stopped as medics attend to Nakamba.
36′ Kakuta’s long range effort goes off target.
35′ A high through ball finds Bakambu who misses the target by inches with only the keeper to beat.
33′ Billiat’s freekick is parried away for cornerkick.
31′ Mbemba tries to beat Chigova from an acute position but his effort goes over.
28′ Knox fails to reach the ball first and DRC clear their lines.
20′ Goal!!!! Pfumbidzai puts Zimbabwe ahead, finishing off Khama’s free-kick.
19′ Yellow Card to G. Chigova (Zim).
15′ Bakambu’s header is superbly saved by Chigova, play stopped as the goalkeeper needs medical attention.
14′ Chigova goes down at the other end but the referee allows play to continue.
12′ Knox Mutizwa with a chance but his effort goes off target.
11′ Khama break away but takes long to release the ball and is dispossessed.
10′ DRC controlling the possession in the opening minutes as R. Pfumbidzayi gives away a corner-kick which is cleared.
5′ Freekick to DRC on the near side, send into the box but evades everyone as it goes out.
3′ DRC try to breakaway but they are caught offside.
DRC XI:A. Mossi, C. mbemba, I. Mpeko, M. Tisserand, A. Chadrack, F. Ngoma, J. Botaka, C. Luvindama, C. Bakambu, G. Kakuta, A. Masuaku.
Warriors XI:G. Chigova, T. Darikwa, R. Pfumbidzai, T. Hadebe, A. Mudimu, D. Phiri, M. Nakamba, T. Kutinyu, K. Musona, K. Billiat, K. Mutizwa.
Share:
Designed byElegant Themes| Powered byWordPress

Title: US Health Body Experts Exit From Some DRC Areas Had No Impact On Ebola Response -Ministry - UrduPoint
Sumaira FHPublished October 27, 2018 | 07:10 PM
The withdrawal of experts from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) did not affect the response to the ongoing Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), Jessica Ilunga, a spokeswoman for the DRC Ministry of Public Health, told Sputnik on Saturday.
MOSCOW (UrduPoint News / Sputnik - 27th October, 2018) The withdrawal of expertsfromthe US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) did not affect the response to the ongoing Ebola outbreak in theDemocratic Republic of the Congo(DRC), Jessica Ilunga, a spokeswoman for the DRC Ministry of Public Health, told Sputnik on Saturday.
CDC spokesman Benjamin Hayes told Sputnik on Friday that the health body hoped for a tangible improvement in the security situation in several Ebola-hit areas in the DRC to send back its experts there.
"It hasn't impacted the Ebola response as they [CDC experts] were only in [the northeastern city of]Benifor two or three days before their withdrawal, and they continue following the response evenfromKinshasaandAtlanta," Ilunga said.
The spokeswoman added that no other experts working on the Ebola outbreak in the areas with increased security risks had expressed their desire to withdraw, stressing thatallexperts are protected during their work.

"Experts [working] in the field are already protected by the nationalpolice, the nationalarmyand the MONUSCO [United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the DRC] when carrying Ebola response activities in dangerous areas," she stressed.
TheWorldHealth Organization (WHO) said on Thursday that as ofOctober23, 247 Ebola cases, including 159 fatal ones, had been registered in seven health zones in the province of North Kivu and three health zones in the province of Ituri. The area also suffersfrominstability due to the ongoing clashes between localmilitantsandgovernmenttroops.
The Ebola virus is transmitted to humansfromwild animals and is estimated by the WHO to have a 50-percent fatality rate. Ebola is named after the DRC's Ebola River, near which the virus was discovered by a team of Professor Peter Piot in 1976.
KP CM Gandapur arrives at PTI power show in Kahna
Pakistan Railways reduces 10pc train fares
Suffers from mental disorder, reveals Alia Bhat
Convoy led by KP CM Gandapur departs for PTI rally in Lahore
Court issues non-bailable arrest warrants for KP CM Gandapur
London hospital to use drones for rapid blood sample delivery
PCB seeks high-performance coach for Red Ball team
Currency Rate In Pakistan - Dollar, Euro, Pound, Riyal Rates On 21 September 202 ..
Today Gold Rate in Pakistan 21 September 2024
Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan’s voice touches hearts once again after three decades
PCB HEC Intervarsity Tournament 2024 to commence in October
Second Pakistan v England Test will be played in Multan
Football: German Bundesliga table
Football: English Championship results
Kane and Olise run riot as Bayern thump Bremen
'Business as usual' for Australia match-winner Carey amid boos
UN's ambitious summit set to adopt Pact for the future to address global challenges
Kane, Olise run riot as Bayern thump Bremen
Carey sparks recovery as Australia thrash England in 2nd ODI
Football: English Premier League table
Football: English Premier League results -- 1st update
Football: English Championship table
Football: Italian Serie A table
Norris pips Verstappen to dramatic Singapore pole after Sainz crash
UrduPoint Network is the largest independent digital media house from Pakistan, catering the needs of its users since year 1997. We provide breaking news, Pakistani news, International news, Business news, Sports news, Urdu news and Live Urdu News
© 1997-2024 UrduPoint Network. All rights of the publication are reserved by UrduPoint.com. Reproduction without proper consent is not allowed.

Title: Bankers Reports Virtual Data Room and Investment Banking Advisor Review
Searching for your content...
In-Language News
Contact Us
888-776-0942from 8 AM - 10 PM ET

News provided by
Oct 15, 2018, 03:05 ET
Share this article
VANCOUVER, British Columbia,October 15, 2018/PRNewswire/ --
Bankers Cobalt Corp.(TSXV: BANC) (FSE: BC2) (OTCQB:NDENF) (the "Corporation" or "Bankers") is pleased to announce the establishment of a confidential Virtual Data Room (VDR)to provide access for parties who have approached Bankers or expressed an interest in reviewing data on Bankers and concessions held by Bankers.
Grant Dempsey, President and COO of Bankers stated: "We have completed a significant amount of work and compiled relevant and compelling geochemical and drilling data on our expansive 400+ km² land package in the DRC and 135 km² Namibian license. We will now make that data available for online review by parties which have approached Bankers or expressed an interest in participating with the Corporation in realizing the potential of Bankers strategically positioned land holdings. Bankers acquired its land interests by being an early entrant in the DRC cobalt and copper land play and through relationships built over years of experience in the DRC. Accessing, evaluating, and transacting on quality concessions in the DRC where clean title can be established and with qualified partners is currently extremely difficult. Bankers experienced DRC operating team has successfully completed this process. Bankers provides significant country risk reduction to new entrants into the complex DRC mining environment. Recent transactions such as the Barrick acquisition of Randgold, which has a large DRC exposure, is a clear indication that companies and their institutional participants have accepted they must have a presence in the DRC with its tremendous mineral resource potential. Bankers is selecting an investment bank to advise the Corporation in its dealings with interested parties on transactions at the corporate and property levels."
About Bankers
Bankers is a natural resource company with a primary focus on the acquisition, exploration and development of cobalt and copper mineral properties in the DRC to world-class Canadian standards. Bankers has acquired an option on a 135 km² license inNamibiawith the potential for copper, cobalt and other metals. As battery production for EV's surges, demand for cobalt will probably exceed supply for many years. According to a recent report by Transparency Market Research, global sales of lithium-ion batteries are expected to reachUS$70Bby 2024, for a compound growth rate of 11.6% over the years beginning in 2016. Bankers holds rights to 26 separate mineral concessions strategically located in the southern DRC Copperbelt and having a total area of more than 400km². Bankers has the intention to acquire interests in additional concessions or relinquish concessions in the normal course of business. All concessions were obtained as either new grants or through reputable DRC partners and have clean title with no government involvement, making Bankers one of the few, and perhaps only, junior public mining company in the DRC to have over 26 concessions capable of being exploited. Bankers has an experienced operations team operating in the southern CopperBelt of the DRC. Bankers believes it is the front runner in advancing cobalt and copper exploration by a junior mining company in the DRC.
ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF BANKERS COBALT CORP."Stephen Barley"Chairman & CEO
Website:http://www.bankerscobalt.com
Reader Advisory
Neither TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.
This news release contains"forward-looking information"within the meaning of applicable securities laws including statements relating to the outlook of the business of the Corporation, including statements relating to , the Corporation's intention to acquire additional concessions the Corporations intention to select investment banking advisors, the Corporation's ability to explore and develop the concessions, the results of any development and exploration, the ability of the Corporation to meet standards for verifiable supply chain custody, and the Corporation's status as a leader in the junior mining sector for cobalt and copper in the DRC. Although the Corporation believes considering the experience of its officers and directors, current conditions and expected future developments and other factors that have been considered appropriate, that the expectations reflected in this forward-looking information are reasonable, undue reliance should not be placed on them as the Corporation can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct. Actual results and developments may differ materially from those contemplated by these statements. The statements in this news release are made as of the date of this release. The Corporation undertakes no obligation to comment on analyses, expectations or statements made by third-parties in respect of the Corporation its securities, or its financial or operating results.
For further information:Phone: +1-604-684-6730Email:[email protected]Website:http://www.bankerscobalt.com
SOURCE Bankers Cobalt Corp.

Title: Bankers Reports Virtual Data Room and Investment Banking Advisor Review
Searching for your content...
In-Language News
Contact Us
888-776-0942from 8 AM - 10 PM ET

News provided by
Oct 15, 2018, 03:05 ET
Share this article
VANCOUVER, British Columbia,October 15, 2018/PRNewswire/ --
Bankers Cobalt Corp.(TSXV: BANC) (FSE: BC2) (OTCQB:NDENF) (the "Corporation" or "Bankers") is pleased to announce the establishment of a confidential Virtual Data Room (VDR)to provide access for parties who have approached Bankers or expressed an interest in reviewing data on Bankers and concessions held by Bankers.
Grant Dempsey, President and COO of Bankers stated: "We have completed a significant amount of work and compiled relevant and compelling geochemical and drilling data on our expansive 400+ km² land package in the DRC and 135 km² Namibian license. We will now make that data available for online review by parties which have approached Bankers or expressed an interest in participating with the Corporation in realizing the potential of Bankers strategically positioned land holdings. Bankers acquired its land interests by being an early entrant in the DRC cobalt and copper land play and through relationships built over years of experience in the DRC. Accessing, evaluating, and transacting on quality concessions in the DRC where clean title can be established and with qualified partners is currently extremely difficult. Bankers experienced DRC operating team has successfully completed this process. Bankers provides significant country risk reduction to new entrants into the complex DRC mining environment. Recent transactions such as the Barrick acquisition of Randgold, which has a large DRC exposure, is a clear indication that companies and their institutional participants have accepted they must have a presence in the DRC with its tremendous mineral resource potential. Bankers is selecting an investment bank to advise the Corporation in its dealings with interested parties on transactions at the corporate and property levels."
About Bankers
Bankers is a natural resource company with a primary focus on the acquisition, exploration and development of cobalt and copper mineral properties in the DRC to world-class Canadian standards. Bankers has acquired an option on a 135 km² license inNamibiawith the potential for copper, cobalt and other metals. As battery production for EV's surges, demand for cobalt will probably exceed supply for many years. According to a recent report by Transparency Market Research, global sales of lithium-ion batteries are expected to reachUS$70Bby 2024, for a compound growth rate of 11.6% over the years beginning in 2016. Bankers holds rights to 26 separate mineral concessions strategically located in the southern DRC Copperbelt and having a total area of more than 400km². Bankers has the intention to acquire interests in additional concessions or relinquish concessions in the normal course of business. All concessions were obtained as either new grants or through reputable DRC partners and have clean title with no government involvement, making Bankers one of the few, and perhaps only, junior public mining company in the DRC to have over 26 concessions capable of being exploited. Bankers has an experienced operations team operating in the southern CopperBelt of the DRC. Bankers believes it is the front runner in advancing cobalt and copper exploration by a junior mining company in the DRC.
ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF BANKERS COBALT CORP."Stephen Barley"Chairman & CEO
Website:http://www.bankerscobalt.com
Reader Advisory
Neither TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.
This news release contains"forward-looking information"within the meaning of applicable securities laws including statements relating to the outlook of the business of the Corporation, including statements relating to , the Corporation's intention to acquire additional concessions the Corporations intention to select investment banking advisors, the Corporation's ability to explore and develop the concessions, the results of any development and exploration, the ability of the Corporation to meet standards for verifiable supply chain custody, and the Corporation's status as a leader in the junior mining sector for cobalt and copper in the DRC. Although the Corporation believes considering the experience of its officers and directors, current conditions and expected future developments and other factors that have been considered appropriate, that the expectations reflected in this forward-looking information are reasonable, undue reliance should not be placed on them as the Corporation can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct. Actual results and developments may differ materially from those contemplated by these statements. The statements in this news release are made as of the date of this release. The Corporation undertakes no obligation to comment on analyses, expectations or statements made by third-parties in respect of the Corporation its securities, or its financial or operating results.
For further information:Phone: +1-604-684-6730Email:[email protected]Website:http://www.bankerscobalt.com
SOURCE Bankers Cobalt Corp.

Title: Bankers Reports Virtual Data Room and Investment Banking Advisor Review - African Energy Metals (OTC:NDENF) - Benzinga
PR Newswire
VANCOUVER, British Columbia, October 15, 2018
VANCOUVER, British Columbia,October 15, 2018/PRNewswire/ --
Bankers Cobalt Corp.BANCBCNDENF(the "Corporation" or "Bankers") is pleased to announce the establishment of a confidential Virtual Data Room (VDR)to provide access for parties who have approached Bankers or expressed an interest in reviewing data on Bankers and concessions held by Bankers.
Grant Dempsey, President and COO of Bankers stated: "We have completed a significant amount of work and compiled relevant and compelling geochemical and drilling data on our expansive 400+ km² land package in the DRC and 135 km² Namibian license. We will now make that data available for online review by parties which have approached Bankers or expressed an interest in participating with the Corporation in realizing the potential of Bankers strategically positioned land holdings. Bankers acquired its land interests by being an early entrant in the DRC cobalt and copper land play and through relationships built over years of experience in the DRC. Accessing, evaluating, and transacting on quality concessions in the DRC where clean title can be established and with qualified partners is currently extremely difficult. Bankers experienced DRC operating team has successfully completed this process. Bankers provides significant country risk reduction to new entrants into the complex DRC mining environment. Recent transactions such as the Barrick acquisition of Randgold, which has a large DRC exposure, is a clear indication that companies and their institutional participants have accepted they must have a presence in the DRC with its tremendous mineral resource potential. Bankers is selecting an investment bank to advise the Corporation in its dealings with interested parties on transactions at the corporate and property levels."
About Bankers
Bankers is a natural resource company with a primary focus on the acquisition, exploration and development of cobalt and copper mineral properties in the DRC to world-class Canadian standards. Bankers has acquired an option on a 135 km² license inNamibiawith the potential for copper, cobalt and other metals. As battery production for EV's surges, demand for cobalt will probably exceed supply for many years. According to a recent report by Transparency Market Research, global sales of lithium-ion batteries are expected to reachUS$70Bby 2024, for a compound growth rate of 11.6% over the years beginning in 2016. Bankers holds rights to 26 separate mineral concessions strategically located in the southern DRC Copperbelt and having a total area of more than 400km². Bankers has the intention to acquire interests in additional concessions or relinquish concessions in the normal course of business. All concessions were obtained as either new grants or through reputable DRC partners and have clean title with no government involvement, making Bankers one of the few, and perhaps only, junior public mining company in the DRC to have over 26 concessions capable of being exploited. Bankers has an experienced operations team operating in the southern CopperBelt of the DRC. Bankers believes it is the front runner in advancing cobalt and copper exploration by a junior mining company in the DRC.
ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF BANKERS COBALT CORP."Stephen Barley"Chairman & CEO
Website:http://www.bankerscobalt.com
Reader Advisory
Neither TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this release.
This news release contains"forward-looking information"within the meaning of applicable securities laws including statements relating to the outlook of the business of the Corporation, including statements relating to , the Corporation's intention to acquire additional concessions the Corporations intention to select investment banking advisors, the Corporation's ability to explore and develop the concessions, the results of any development and exploration, the ability of the Corporation to meet standards for verifiable supply chain custody, and the Corporation's status as a leader in the junior mining sector for cobalt and copper in the DRC. Although the Corporation believes considering the experience of its officers and directors, current conditions and expected future developments and other factors that have been considered appropriate, that the expectations reflected in this forward-looking information are reasonable, undue reliance should not be placed on them as the Corporation can give no assurance that they will prove to be correct. Actual results and developments may differ materially from those contemplated by these statements. The statements in this news release are made as of the date of this release. The Corporation undertakes no obligation to comment on analyses, expectations or statements made by third-parties in respect of the Corporation its securities, or its financial or operating results.
For further information:Phone: +1-604-684-6730Email:info@bankerscobalt.comWebsite:http://www.bankerscobalt.com
SOURCE  Bankers Cobalt Corp.
© 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved.
Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.

Title: DRC Ebola outbreak grows by 10 cases amid more attacks | CIDRAP
UN peacekeeping forces in Beni., UN photo, Sylvain Liechti / Flickr cc
Once again Beni, the epicenter of the Democratic Republic of the Congo's (DRC's) ongoing Ebola outbreak, was the site of rebel violence against both civilians and military members over the weekend as DRC officials confirmed 10 more Ebola cases, including 6 deaths in North Kivu province.
There are now 237 cases, including 153 fatalities, in this outbreak. In addition, 33 suspected cases are under investigation.
Eight of the new cases are in Beni, a city of more than 200,000 people, including five of the fatal cases. And, of the 237 total cases, 202 have been confirmed.
According to a report from Voice of America (VOA), Allied Democratic Forces rebels attacked Congolese army personnel and several neighborhoods in Beni on Saturday and into Sunday. At least a dozen civilians were killed, and 12 children abducted in the Rwenzori neighborhood. On Sunday people took to the streets to protest the growing violence.
"All immunization and awareness activities were suspended this Sunday," DRC officials said in their daily report yesterday. "Community monitoring activities have been slow and have been done by telephone."
In a separate attack, two medical workers with the Congolese army were shot dead by Mai-Mai militiamen from the Vulindi entry point, located at the entrance of the city of Butembo, the DRC health ministry said in an update on Oct 20.
Oly Ilunga Kalenga, MD, the health minister of the DRC, said in the Oct 20 update, "It is a dark day for all the teams of the response that sometimes put their lives in danger in the service of the Nation. Health workers are not a target for armed groups."
Last month, an attack in Beni suspended outbreak response efforts for almost a week, which enabled several transmission chains to go undetected. The lapse in surveillance caused a second wave of the virus that is still wreaking havoc in Beni and Butembo.
"This latest attack is the 10th major incident of insecurity in or around Beni the epicenter of the Ebola outbreak in the past 2 months. A double tragedy for the civilians there as it will be very hard to stop the outbreak if this violence continues," said Peter Salama, MD, the WHO's deputy director-general of emergency response, on Twitter.
Also over the weekend, the DRC health ministry said that 22 young people in Butembo dug up the body of an Ebola patient and opened the body bag to make sure that no organs had been taken from the body, which is a rumor plaguing some neighborhoods in that city.
The ministry said the young people touched highly infectious bodily fluids, likely exposing themselves to Ebola. All 22 people agreed to get vaccinated.
As of yesterday, more than 20,000 people in the DRC had been vaccinated with Merck's unlicensed Ebola vaccine, including 9,823 in Beni and 1,085 in Butembo.
Today the European Union (EU) announced it was releasing €7.2 million ($8.25 million) more to the DRC to fight the outbreak, bringing the total EU response to €12.83 million ($14.7 million) in 2018.
"Overall EU support includes technical expertise, humanitarian air service, research funding and humanitarian assistance," said Commissioner for Humanitarian Aid and Crisis Management ChristosStylianides in a press release.
"We are working closely with the World Health Organisation and the national authorities to fight the disease. We are not letting our guard down and we will continue our support for as long as it takes."
See also:
Oct 22 VOAstory
Oct 21 DRCupdate
Oct 22 DRCupdate
Peter SalamaTwitter account
Oct 22 EUpress release
Also, sequencing confirmed N1 and identified two HA mutations, one of which could affect vaccine development.
The findings come on the cusp of the Northern Hemisphere flu and respiratory syncytial virus seasons and rising US COVID-19 cases.
A study suggesting thatnirmatrelvir/ritonavir and molnupiravir don't prevent severe COVID-19 outcomes or long COVID is also being called into question.
Before March 2024, H5N1 had not been detected in 1,337 wastewater samples analyzed by the team.
The new findings come from the ongoing RECOVER trial and build on results seen in a 2023 trial.
While sequencing shows similarity to the virus in cattle, the epi investigation might not be able to pinpoint a source.
Wastewater levels are still high, but some indicators such as hospitalizations trended downward.
The case follows two local cases reported in 2023, one in Pasadena and the other in Long Beach.
The CDC received reports of 22 more imported cases over the past week, raising the total to 74 from 5 states.
Tests are under way on samples from five contacts who reported symptoms.
Help make CIDRAP's vital work possible
CIDRAP - Center for Infectious Disease Research & PolicyResearch and Innovation Office, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN
Email us
© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights Reserved.The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer
Research and Innovation Office|Contact U of M|Privacy Policy
Newsletter subscribe

Title: Responsible Artisanal Gold Solutions Forum Announces First Conflict-Free Supply Chain from DRC Artisanal Gold Mine to Retail in USA | Business Wire
NEW YORK--(BUSINESS WIRE)--TheResponsible 
      Artisanal Gold Solutions Forum(Forum), with USAID and local 
      partners, is proud to announce several milestones, including the first 
      conflict-free artisanal gold from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) 
      specifically intended for sale and documented for responsibility to US 
      consumers.

With support from USAID, a pilot project was implemented in South Kivu, 
      DRC to establish a conflict free supply chain for artisanal gold. The 
      gold was exported by Fair Congo, processed in the U.S. by Asahi 
      Refinery, manufactured into gold earrings by Richline Group, and sold 
      through Signet Jewelers (operating under brands such as Kay Jewelers and 
      Zales). Mark Hanna, Chief Marketing Officer of Richline Group, stated, 
      “As part of the Forum, we are proud to be part of assuring that 
      responsibly sourced artisanal gold from the DRC can be trusted, ethical, 
      and economical.”
This pilot represents a number of firsts for the artisanal gold sector:
Forum member Sasha Lezhnev, Deputy Director of Policy at the Enough 
      Project, said, “This gold proves that it is possible to source 
      conflict-free, responsible gold from Congo and bring it to consumers. 
      That’s a very important proof of concept. Next, other companies should 
      source responsible gold from Congo, and governments should enact 
      consequences on companies that smuggle conflict gold, which 
      disincentivizes a responsible trade.” Consumers and investors can also 
      make a difference by encouraging companies’ involvement in conflict-free 
      sourcing and reporting.
The Forum is a multi-stakeholder, public-private partnership to address 
      critical barriers to a legitimate artisanal gold trade in the African 
      Great Lakes Region. Forum partners recognize that these milestones, 
      while significant, represent first steps in the goal of building a 
      responsible trade and market for artisanal gold from the region. The 
      Forum’s objective is to make this project an example of good practice 
      which is scalable, replicable, and sustainable.
Learn more about how to help build prosperous communities and 
      sustainable livelihoods through responsible sourcing atwww.ragsforum.organdwww.journeyofgold.org.
BACKGROUND
In the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), more than 95% of artisanal 
      gold is mined illegally and smuggled out of the country. This flow of 
      illegal gold contributes to the ongoing conflict in DRC, and results in 
      the loss of millions of dollars of legal tax revenue annually. In this 
      context, with support from USAID the pilot project provided on-site 
      technical support and training at the mine site to establish certified 
      and responsibly sourced artisanal gold. Activities include building the 
      capacity of miners and government officials to implement due diligence 
      and traceability; training to improve the governance of the mining 
      cooperative; and providing equipment to improve production, health, and 
      safety.
A key success factor was to address downstream risk management concerns 
      through effective due diligence. The pilot engaged Better Sourcing 
      Program for due diligence and GeoTraceability for traceability from mine 
      to export.
The jewelry produced from this gold, while internally tracked by supply 
      chain partners, is not being marketed as a separate product line; rather 
      than segregating the gold, the Forum’s goal is for parity among sources, 
      made possible with effective implementation of due diligence. Next steps 
      are to expand trade with responsible mines, with continued due diligence 
      to enable integration with the global gold supply chain.
“Signet Jewelers is proud to be the Forum’s US retail partner. Together, 
      we aim to support the continuous improvement in the integrity of the 
      global jewelry supply chain,” said David Bouffard, Vice President of 
      Corporate Affairs at Signet Jewelers. “We look forward to 
      responsibly-sourced artisanal gold from the DRC becoming part of the 
      mainstream gold supply chain.”
Two other efforts supporting legitimate artisanal gold production and 
      trade in the DRC include theJust 
      Goldproject of the Canada-based NGO, IMPACT, and apilotby Germany’s Federal Institute for Geosciences and Natural Resources 
      (BGR).
ADDITIONAL QUOTES
ABOUT THE RESPONSIBLE ARTISANAL GOLD SOLUTIONS FORUM (www.ragsforum.org)
TheResponsible 
      Artisanal Gold Solutions Forum(Forum) is a multi-stakeholder 
      coalition seeking to learn about and address critical barriers to the 
      production and trade of artisanal gold from the Great Lakes Region in a 
      way that verifiably meets national, regional, and international laws and 
      standards for responsible sourcing.
The Forum has createdtechnical 
      and communications toolsto support engagement of global companies 
      with the artisanal gold sector based on responsible practice, such as 
      the Artisanal Gold Due Diligence Toolkit. The Forum’sJourney 
      of Goldvirtual reality film and online action kit, 
      presented by the Forum with funding by Google and support from USAID, 
      features artisanal miners who participated in this pilot and describes 
      how companies and consumers can get involved in responsible sourcing 
      from the DRC.

Jennifer Peyser, Director, Ethical Resource Program, RESOLVE202-965-6215,jpeyser@resolv.org

Responsible Artisanal Gold Solutions Forum announces the first conflict-free artisanal gold from the Democratic Republic of Congo for US consumers.
Jennifer Peyser, Director, Ethical Resource Program, RESOLVE202-965-6215,jpeyser@resolv.org


Title: 
Ugandan president to meet DR Congo counterpart over rebel groups - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KAMPALA, Oct. 9 (Xinhua) -- Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni has said he will meet his Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) counterpart Joseph Kabila to discuss measures of wiping out rebel groups in the eastern part of the vast central African country.
Museveni in a State House statement issued on Tuesday said the problems in DRC spill over not only to Uganda but also to other neighboring countries. Restive eastern DRC is a hideout of many rebel groups.
Museveni said action is now needed by DRC, together with regional and international partners to establish total peace in the region.
"That trinity of the DRC, Regional countries and the International Community, can work if we embark on it seriously," he said.
Museveni noted that rebel outfits like the Allied Democratic Forces and other groups based in DRC can be defeated the way Uganda wiped out all negative forces in the country.
Museveni was speaking as the incoming chairperson of the Regional Oversight Mechanism of the Peace, Security and Cooperation Framework for the DRC and the Region.
The regional meeting, which was held here on Monday was also attended by President Salva Kiir of South Sudan and Edgar Lungu, the Zambian leader.
The out-going chairperson of the Framework, President Denis Sassou Nguesso of Congo, in a message said significant progress has been made in the DRC, Burundi, South Sudan and the Central African Republic (CAR) in the last one year.
He urged all stakeholders to pursue efforts to bring about everlasting peace to the region.
A communiqué read at the end of the one day meeting said a new approach beyond the existing measures is needed to ensure greater regional cooperation for the full neutralization of the negative forces in the region.
The communiqué also said that the meeting welcomed a recent announcement by Burundian President Pierre Nkurunziza not to present himself as a candidate in the country's next election.
The leaders also welcomed the revitalized Agreement on the Resolution of the conflict in South Sudan and called on the signatory parties to ensure the full and effective implementation of the Agreement.
They also urged the armed groups in CAR to end their violent acts.
China launches new remote sensing satellites
2018 National Mass Innovation and Entrepreneurship Week held in Beijing
Tea industry helps farmers increase income in Chongyi County, east China's Jiangxi
5th Silk Road Int'l Film Festival kicks off in Xi'an, China's Shaanxi
Autumn scenery of Keketuohai national geopark in NW China's Xinjiang
Farmers harvest in fields on Cold Dew solar term
Autumn farmwork seen across China
Aerial view of Yuncheng salt lake in China's Shanxi

Title: DRC records 12 new Ebola cases over the weekend | CIDRAP
United Nations/ Flickr cc
The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), in updates released Oct 5 through yesterday, detailed 12 new cases of Ebola in North Kivu province.  All but 2 of the cases were reported in Beni, the epicenter of the current outbreak.
There are now a total of 177 cases (142 confirmed and 35 probable), including 113 deaths. Eleven suspected cases are under investigation.
In an Oct 5 update, DRC officials said the new cases represent "a second wave of confirmed cases among refractory contacts" among residents of the Ndindi neighborhood of Beni, who have been resisting outbreak response efforts since August. Besides the 10 cases in Beni, 2 cases have also been reported in Butembo.
Late last week, the DRC's minister of health, Oly Ilunga Kalenga, MD, visited Beni to announce a new strategy.
"The city of Beni has been divided into 18 operational zones that correspond to the 18 health areas of the city. From now on, each health area will have a specific response team to carry out activities corresponding to the different pillars of the response," the DRC said, noting that more healthcare personnel have been deployed to the region.
Yesterday, the DRC revealed that in-depth investigations on the last five confirmed cases in Beni showed three probable cases in deceased persons who were buried before being tested for Ebola.
On Oct 6, the DRC updated its information about exploratory Ebola treatments currently be used in the outbreak.  A total of 56 patients have been treated with mAb 114, remdesivir, ZMapp or Regeneron monoclonal antibodies. Of these 56 patients, 27 are cured and have been discharged, 14 have died, and 15 are still hospitalized.
Since Aug 8, 14,869 people have been vaccinated, including 5,072 in Beni, 4,269 in Mabalako, 1,663 in Mandima, 1,352 in Katwa, 1,100 in Butembo, 427 in Bunia, 355 in Tchomia, 270 in Masereka, 240 to Komanda, and 121 to Oicha.
In related news,The Lancetpublished results from a survey given to 582 residents of the current outbreak areas in August in the DRC, which showed that heavy violence in North Kivu is taking a toll on Ebola response efforts. Participants in the survey live in Mangina, Beni, and Butembo.
Compared with people in Guinea who answered similar questions during the 2014-2016 Ebola outbreak, survey responders in North Kivu were more likely to resist response efforts and said heavy violence in the region was an impediment to getting health care.
"The survey results revealed some worrying attitudes: unwillingness to send a family member suspected of being infected with Ebola virus to an Ebola treatment unit (ETU; 101 [17%] of 580 participants in our survey vs <516 [<9%] of 5,733 participants in Guinea) and intention to hide family member from health authorities (101 [17%] of 581 participants in our survey vs 221 [4%] of 5,520 participants in Guinea)," the authors said.
See also:
Oct 5 DRCupdate
Oct 6 DRCupdate
Oct 7 DRCupdate
Oct 5Lancetstudy
Also, sequencing confirmed N1 and identified two HA mutations, one of which could affect vaccine development.
The findings come on the cusp of the Northern Hemisphere flu and respiratory syncytial virus seasons and rising US COVID-19 cases.
A study suggesting thatnirmatrelvir/ritonavir and molnupiravir don't prevent severe COVID-19 outcomes or long COVID is also being called into question.
Before March 2024, H5N1 had not been detected in 1,337 wastewater samples analyzed by the team.
The new findings come from the ongoing RECOVER trial and build on results seen in a 2023 trial.
While sequencing shows similarity to the virus in cattle, the epi investigation might not be able to pinpoint a source.
Wastewater levels are still high, but some indicators such as hospitalizations trended downward.
Wastewater levels are still high, but like other markers are showing a downward trend.
The CDC received reports of 22 more imported cases over the past week, raising the total to 74 from 5 states.
Tests are under way on samples from five contacts who reported symptoms.
Help make CIDRAP's vital work possible
CIDRAP - Center for Infectious Disease Research & PolicyResearch and Innovation Office, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN
Email us
© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights Reserved.The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer
Research and Innovation Office|Contact U of M|Privacy Policy
Newsletter subscribe

Title: Security Concerns Are Threatening the DRC Ebola Response | TIME
Continuing security issues in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) are impeding efforts to control the country’s worsening Ebola outbreak, according to astatement from the World Health Organization(WHO).
Protests, unrest andattacks on healthcare workersin the country, which is in the midst of a humanitarian crisis, are making it difficult for responders to administer vaccines, address possible new cases and identify individuals who may have been exposed to the deadly virus, threatening containment progress, the WHO says.
“These gains could be lost if we suffer a period of prolonged insecurity, resulting in increased transmission,” the statement says. “That would be a tragedy for the local population, who have already suffered too much.”
The DRC outbreak is still far less sweeping than aWest African outbreakthat killed 11,000 people between 2014 and 2016, but the WHO has called itthe second worst ever. Continuing spread of the disease, and the fact that it has reached a populous city in the DRC’s North Kivu province, has health officials concerned, and national and regional risk associated with the disease is considered “very high.” Global risk remains low.
Here’s what to know about the Ebola outbreak in the DRC.
The DRC’scurrent Ebola outbreak, its 10th in 40 years, was officially declared on Aug. 1, shortly after theend of another outbreakin the country that claimed 33 lives. As of Dec. 27,the WHO had recorded543 confirmed cases of Ebola, as well as 48 suspected cases. More than 350 deaths have been reported, including 309 confirmed to be the result of Ebola. The most confirmed cases have been reported in the Beni health zone, located in the country’s populous North Kivu Province, but new cases there are slowing, according toa recent WHO case report. Meanwhile, the outbreak is intensifying in Butembo — a North Kivu city with more than 1 million residents — and Katwa.
Women and children have been disproportionately affected by the outbreak.As of early December, women accounted for about 62% of cases where sex was reported; at least 18 of these women were pregnant, and additional seven were either breastfeeding or had recently given birth. Another cause for concern, according to the WHO, is the high rate of infection among children. Nearly a quarter of cases have been in children younger than 15, including 27 infants not even a year old. Women and children may be exposed to Ebola in health facilities, when attending funerals or through family care, according to the WHO. They may also be more likely to seek medical attention if they do become sick.
As of Dec. 25, 201 people had been successfully treated for Ebola and discharged from health facilities.
Ebola — a rare and severe virus that causes fatigue, muscle and stomach pain, vomiting, diarrhea and unexplained bleeding — can be quite contagious and is spread through direct contact with infected people or their bodily fluids,according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention(CDC). While no cases of the virus have been confirmed outside the DRC, one wasconfirmed near the Ugandan borderin late September, and health officials have deemed the risk of national and regional spread “very high.” The WHO and the Ministry of Health are keeping a close eye on countries that share borders with the DRC, including Uganda, Rwanda and South Sudan.
A number of factors could allow disease transmission to extend beyond the DRC’s borders, raising red flags. In a recent case report, the WHO cited “the volatile security situation, sporadic incidents of community reluctance, refusal or resistance, continued reporting of confirmed cases, and the risk of spread to neighbouring countries” as reasons for concern.
One of the primary issues is a long-standing humanitarian crisis in the DRC that has worsened over the past year, forcing millions of people to flee their homes,according to the UN. More than 4 million people in the DRC are considered displaced — including more than a million in North Kivu Province alone — leading to “continuous movement of refugees to neighboring countries,” the WHO says. This movement, along with travel within the DRC, could increase the disease’s chances of spreading, the WHO says. Plus,security concernsand community resistance in North Kivu and Ituri provinces have stifled response and monitoring efforts in these areas, and made it more difficult to carry out “safe and dignified burials” that can curb disease spread. Recent political turmoil has also caused hundreds of Congolese refugeesto enter Uganda, raising concerns about further spread.
In the U.S., health officials are closely monitoring an American whomay have been exposed to Ebolawhile treating patients in the DRC. The individual has not shown symptoms of Ebola, but is under observation at the University of Nebraska Medical Center.
The WHO continues to closely monitor and respond to affected and at-risk areas. Multiple hospitals in the DRC now have the capacity to confirm diagnoses of Ebola with laboratory testing, and procedures are in place for treating and isolating patients suspected or known to have the virus. (Nonetheless, the WHO says some hospital visitors still show “resistance” to containment procedures, another risk factor for disease transmission.)
Health workers have also been using a new, experimental Ebola vaccine to help stop the virus’ spread, inoculating almost 40,000 people so far. Health workers have been using a vaccine made Merck, which has beenshown in field testingto potentially reduce infection rates, and showed some success during the last outbreak in the DRC. Merck has provided thousands of the vaccines to health authorities for emergency use, but it’s still considered experimental sinceethical concernshave barred scientists from performing the types of controlled clinical trials usually used to test new drugs. Health workers and at-risk individuals have also been vaccinated in South Sudan and Uganda.
About 160 people have also been treated with other experimental drugs, under a WHO policy that allows for the emergency use of investigational therapies. And in a significant step, the WHOannouncedthat the DRC will begin a randomized control trial to test the efficacy of new therapeutics.
The U.S. withdrew its presence in the region in August and has not redeployed anyone in the face of significant security concerns. Some employees from the CDC and the U.S. Agency for International Development are in the DRC capital of Kinshasa, miles away from the heart of the outbreak,the WashingtonPostreports.
Write toJamie Ducharmeatjamie.ducharme@time.com

Title: Health Workers in South Sudan Will Be Vaccinated as the DRC Ebola Outbreak Spreads. Here's What to Know
Officials are set tobegin vaccinating select people in South Sudanagainst Ebola, as a worsening outbreak in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) continues to intensify, putting the neighboring country on “high alert.”
The DRC outbreak is still far less sweeping than aWest African outbreakthat killed 11,000 people between 2014 and 2016, but the WHO has called itthe second worst ever. Continuing spread of the disease, and the fact that it has reached a populous city in the DRC’s North Kivu province, has health officials concerned. In September, the WHO declared regional risk associated with Ebola “very high,” though it maintains that global risk remains low. In October, the WHO decided not to declare the outbreak a public health emergency of international concern.
Nonetheless, officials have urged “ongoing vigilance” and protective measures for health workers in the DRC and neighboring countries, including the vaccination of some in South Sudan and Uganda.
Here’s what to know about the Ebola outbreak in the DRC.
The DRC’scurrent Ebola outbreak, its 10th in 40 years, was officially declared on Aug. 1, shortly after theend of another outbreakin the country that claimed 33 lives. As of Dec. 5,the WHO had recorded452 confirmed cases of Ebola, as well as 48 suspected cases. Almost 290 deaths have been reported, including 241 confirmed to be the result of Ebola. The most confirmed cases have been reported in the Beni health zone, located in the country’s populous North Kivu Province, and Kalunguta, Beni, Butembo and Katwa “remain the principle hotspots of the outbreak,” according to a recent WHO case report.
Women and children have been disproportionately affected by the outbreak.According to the WHO, women have accounted for about 62% of cases where sex was reported; at least 18 of these women were pregnant, and additional seven were either breastfeeding or had recently given birth. Another cause for concern, according to the WHO, is the high rate of infection among children. Nearly a quarter of cases have been in children younger than 15, including 27 infants not even a year old. Women and children may be exposed to Ebola in health facilities, when attending funerals or through family care, according to the WHO. They may also be more likely to seek medical attention if they do become sick.
Since the beginning of the outbreak, 142 people have been successfully treated for Ebola and released back into their communities.
Ebola — a rare and severe virus that causes fatigue, muscle and stomach pain, vomiting, diarrhea and unexplained bleeding — can be quite contagious and is spread through direct contact with infected people or their bodily fluids,according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention(CDC). While no cases of the virus have been confirmed outside the DRC, one wasconfirmed near the Ugandan borderin late September, and health officials have deemed the risk of national and regional spread “very high.” The WHO and the Ministry of Health are keeping a close eye on countries that share borders with the DRC, including Uganda, Rwanda and South Sudan.
A number of factors could allow disease transmission to extend beyond the DRC’s borders, raising red flags. In a recent case report, the WHO cited “the volatile security situation, sporadic incidents of community reluctance, refusal or resistance, continued reporting of confirmed cases, and the risk of spread to neighbouring countries” as reasons for concern. Ebola cases have also beenreported in Butembo, a North Kivu city with more than 1 million residents, causing health officials to worry about further spread.
One of the primary issues is a long-standing humanitarian crisis in the DRC that has worsened over the past year, forcing millions of people to flee their homes,according to the UN. More than 4 million people in the DRC are considered displaced — including more than a million in North Kivu Province alone — leading to “continuous movement of refugees to neighboring countries,” the WHO says. This movement, along with travel within the DRC, could increase the disease’s chances of spreading, the WHO says. Plus,security concernsand community resistance in North Kivu and Ituri provinces have stifled response and monitoring efforts in these areas, and made it more difficult to carry out “safe and dignified burials” that can curb disease spread.
Several other diseases are also currently circulating in the DRC, including polio, cholera, measles and monkeypox.
The WHO continues to closely monitor and respond to affected and at-risk areas. Multiple hospitals in the DRC now have the capacity to confirm diagnoses of Ebola with laboratory testing, and procedures are in place for treating and isolating patients suspected or known to have the virus. (Nonetheless, the WHO says some hospital visitors still show “resistance” to containment procedures, another risk factor for disease transmission.)
Health workers have also been using a new, experimental Ebola vaccine to help stop the virus’ spread, inoculating almost 40,000 people so far. Health workers have been using a vaccine made Merck, which has beenshown in field testingto potentially reduce infection rates, and showed some success during the last outbreak in the DRC. Merck has provided thousands of the vaccines to health authorities for emergency use, but it’s still considered experimental sinceethical concernshave barred scientists from performing the types of controlled clinical trials usually used to test new drugs.
Vaccination of health and frontline workers in South Sudan will begin on Dec. 19, joining the vaccination of some individuals in Uganda, according to the WHO. More than 2,000 vaccines have been earmarked for use in South Sudan.
About 160 people have also been treated with other experimental drugs, under a WHO policy that allows for the emergency use of investigational therapies. And in a significant step, the WHOannouncedthat the DRC will begin a randomized control trial to test the efficacy of new therapeutics.
The U.S. withdrew its presence in the region in August and has not redeployed anyone in the face of significant security concerns. Some employees from the CDC and the U.S. Agency for International Development are in the DRC capital of Kinshasa, miles away from the heart of the outbreak,the WashingtonPostreports.
With only 117 in MLB history, an immaculate inning is rarer than a no-hitter.
At age 34, Sale’s likely Cy Young season will go down as one of the more improbable performances in recent memory.
Texas jumped Georgia on Sunday, and that means a bracket overhaul.
District Judge Kevin Mullins, 54, was pronounced dead at the scene. Letcher County Sheriff Shawn M. Stines, 43, was arrested and charged with his murder.
Cards Against Humanity filed a $15 million lawsuit against SpaceX for trespassing on property it owns in Texas, which happens to sit near SpaceX facilities.
The 'Real Housewives' star has been prioritizing her health, and Three Wishes is high on her list of hunger-curbing treats.
We figured Caitlin Clark's arrival in the WNBA would boost TV ratings. What we didn't see coming was the sustained magnitude.
For the second straight game, the Mariners made a catastrophic baserunning mistake.
Tensions may be thawing between LIV Golf and the rest of the golf establishment.
The Pac-12’s resurgence — taking four Mountain West members — has left one school, it seems, with a decision that could completely reshape the Group of Five.
What to expect during perimenopause, including lesser-known symptoms and how long this phase lasts.
If you're a side sleeper, this little satin sidekick can help keep you comfy (and smooth!) as you snooze.
Julio Urías pleaded no contest to a misdemeanor domestic battery charge earlier this year.
Intel provided Wall Street with some good news after a slew of negative headlines in recent months.
Qualcomm, which makes chips for smartphones, said it will lay off 226 workers in San Diego later this year, according to a California WARN notice published this week.  The layoffs, which were first reported by The San Diego Union-Tribune, will take effect the week of November 12.  The layoffs affect employees at 16 facilities across San Diego, including the company's headquarters, which has a cybersecurity presence.
Maddux Trujillo's 64-yard kick is one yard short of the modern FBS record.
Wallace has two wins over four seasons with the team and finished 10th in the standings in 2023.
The biggest news stories this morning:   How Google will start helping you figure out which images are AI generated, watchOS 11 is out now, with new Sleep Apnea feature, Trump jumps into cryptocurrency, appears to know nothing about it.
The only thing better than an airy, lightweight frock is one that's affordable — take a peek at our fave maxis, minis and midis.
Joined by her daughter Charlie, Morgan said goodbye to the San Diego Wave and her career as a soccer player Sunday night.