Title:  页面没有找到 


Title: 
DR Congo refugees head home to Kasai region from Angola: UN - Xinhua | English.news.cn

GENEVA, Aug. 23 (Xinhua) -- Around 8,500 refugees have left Angola's Lunda Norte province to the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in the past week in apparent response to reports of better security in their places of origin, the UN Refugee Agency UNHCR revealed on Friday.
"This appears to be a response to reports of improved security in some of their places of origin and anxiety to return home in time for the beginning of the academic year," UNHCR spokesperson Andrej Mahecic said a UN briefing here.
He noted that the refugee departures reported from Aug. 18 were "spontaneous" with more than a thousand having already crossed into DRC. Many others were moving toward the border with DRC's Kasai region from the Lovua settlement in Angola.
Kasai province is recovering from deadly clashes between armed groups and DRC forces in 2017 that displaced some 1.4 million people from their homes.
Around 37,000 refugees from the violence crossed into Angola which hosts more than 60,000 refugees and asylum-seekers, primarily from DRC.
"This week's spontaneous returns from northeastern Angola are linked with presidential elections and follow recent discussions between the visiting DRC officials and refugees, where refugees were briefed about improvements to the security situation in Kasai Provinces," said Mahecic.
DRC voters went to the polls on Dec. 30, 2018, to choose a new president.
Xi urges Chinese air force to enhance capability to win
Xi highlights poverty relief, high-quality development, environmental protection
Xi makes inspection tour in Lanzhou, Gansu
Xinhua Headlines: China's manufacturing firms breaking out of trade woes
Giant pandas Gong Gong, Shun Shun celebrate 6th birthday in Haikou
General view of Kunming, SW China
Scenery along highway linking Lhasa, Nyingchi
Sesame Street Run held in Pasay City, the Philippines

Title: 
Rwanda, DRC health ministers evaluate plans for combating Ebola - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KIGALI, Aug. 6 (Xinhua) -- Rwandan minister of health Diane Gashumba and her counterpart from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) Pierre Kangudia met on Tuesday in a border city of Rwanda to evaluate the implementation of strategic plans aimed at combating Ebola virus.
The meeting in northwestern Rwanda's Rubavu district was convened in response to the rapid spread of the Ebola virus in the eastern DRC city of Goma, which borders Rubavu.
"We are in a very delicate situation and we are meeting to evaluate the Ebola preventive measures put in place in our respective countries and discuss the best way of tackling the crisis collectively," Gashumba told Xinhua in a telephone interview.
Discussions at the meeting will be critical in addressing the current and future outbreaks of Ebola virus, said Gashumba, adding that Rwanda is looking forward to a common strategy to address the epidemic.
She reiterated Rwanda's border with DRC remains open, adding that all travels to Ebola-hit areas in the DRC should be avoided due to the Ebola outbreak in the country.
World Health Organization last month declared the Ebola virus disease outbreak in DRC a Public Health Emergency of International Concern.
The ongoing Ebola outbreak in DRC has already killed more than 1,700 people.
China's railway network sees steady growth in passenger trips in July: data
Chinese researchers develope biomimetic robot in shape of manta ray in Shaanxi
Summer scenery of Yajiang County, SW China's Sichuan
Free summer camps provided in Zhejiang for migrant, rural left-behind, impoverished children
China's Min Opera performed at Copenhagen Opera Festival
Artwork "Sun Cycle" displayed at WF Central in Beijing
Tourists enjoy themselves in Wuyishan scenic spot in China's Fujian
In pics: Hongcun scenic spot in Yixian County, China's Anhui

Title: Trotwood FEMA disaster center to close Thursday – WHIO TV 7 and WHIO Radio
WHIO 7 NOW

Trotwood FEMA disaster center to close Thursday
The Trotwood-Madison High School FEMA Disaster Recovery Center (DRC) will close at the end of its regular business day at 7 p.m. on Thursday, August 8.
Since students’ first day of school is on Monday, August 12, state and FEMA officials are consolidating the Trotwood DRC into the Dayton DRC nearby.
The Dayton DRC located at the Child Health Pavilion in the Dayton Children’s Hospital, 1010 Valley St. is open Monday through Saturday from 8:30 a.m. to 7 p.m.
>> RELATED:Two weeks out: Tornado victims face looming FEMA deadline
Even though the Trotwood DRC will be closing, help from FEMA will still be available. Resident should register before visiting a DRC by August 19.
Residents can register for federal assistance atDisasterAssistance.gov, by calling the FEMA Helpline at 800-621-3362 (TTY 800-462-7585) or by using the FEMA App.
Businesses and residents can apply for low-interest loans from the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) atSBA.gov/disaster, by calling 800-659-2955 or by email at DisasterCustomerService@sba.gov.
© 2024Cox Media Group.This station is part of Cox Media Group Television. Learn aboutcareersat Cox Media Group. By using this website, you accept the terms of ourVisitor AgreementandPrivacy Policy, and understand your options regardingAd Choices.

Title: Ministers assess situation of Congolese refugees - Angola | ReliefWeb
Angola+ 1 more
Dundo - Angola's ministers of Defense, Salviano de Jesus Sequeira, and Social Action, Family and Woman Promotion, Faustina Fernandes Alves, started assessing this Monday, in eastern Lunda Norte, the current situation of the Democratic Republic of Congo refugees.
The visit of the Angolan officials comes after at least 8,000 refugees out of the overall 23,600 located in Lóvua, eastern Lunda Norte, abruptly decided to walk out of Angola.
In Dundo city, the refugees walked an overall distance of 80 to 90 kilometers towards Angola/DRC border.
According to the source, the Angolan government is negotiating with remaining refugees, more than 90 percent of the total, to dissuade them from returning to DRC without supportive logistical condition.
According to ANGOP source, the recommendation for not abruptly leave Lóvua fields has been given by  the parts involved in the repatriation process, namely Angola, DRC and United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
To recall that in July the government of the eastern Lunda Norte (Angola) and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) assessed the repatriation process of over 20,000 refugees from Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) accommodated in that region since May 2017.
The negotiations arose due to the fact that in June this year, 85 percent of the refugees expressed willingness to return home saying that the causes that forced them to abandon their country no longer existed.
However, the meeting decided that the Angolan authorities needed to reach soon an agreement with DRC for compliance with repatriation norms and speed up Angola/DRC / UNHCR tripartite meeting to define the date for the beginning of the repatriation process.
The DRC citizens abandoned their country to be a refugee in Angola, due to the extreme and generalized violence caused by ethnical and political tensions that hit this African nation in 2017
DR Congo+ 4 more
DR Congo
DR Congo
DR Congo
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: DRC Ebola impact getting worse for children | CIDRAP
World Bank, Vincent Tremeau / Flickr cc
The Ebola outbreak has killed more than 500 children in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) since the outbreak began last August, and deaths in kids have accelerated over the past 6 months, Save the Children, a nongovernmental group that is working in DRC, said yesterday.
In other developments, the DRC health ministry confirmed 7 new cases yesterday, and health officials in the DRC and neighboring Rwanda announced steps to curb unnecessary border travel.
Last December UNICEF sounded the alarm about the high number of children infected in the outbreak, noting that one of every third people confirmed infected in the DRC's outbreak was a child, unusual for Ebola epidemics. The agency noted that 1 in 10 children were under age 5 and that kids were more likely to die from the disease than adults.
Save the Children said in its statement yesterday that around 737 children have been infected with Ebola in the DRC's outbreak. And based on the latest numbers, the impact on kids has increased. In the first 6 months of the outbreak, which was declared on Aug 1, 2018, just under 100 deaths in children had been reported. However, in the 6 months that followed, over four times as many have died.
Heather Kerr, Save the Children's country director in the DRC, said, "This is another grim milestone in a crisis that is devastating children in its path, especially the youngest. Some 40% of children who have contracted the disease are under the age of five, and many of them have died."
She also said the outbreak has had a wider impact on children because of the high overall fatality rate from the virus, with thousands losing at least one of their parents or separated from their families.
Aside from the trauma of losing a loved one, Ebola puts children at risk for stigmatization, isolation, or abandonment, Kerr said. "Children who are on their own face the very real danger of all kinds of abuse and exploitation, or of being recruited by armed groups. Children aren’t going to school because their parents have died and those taking care of them can't afford the school fees, or schools are closing due to insecurity."
Save the Children has been working in the outbreak zone since the epidemic began, with a focus on infection prevention and control as well as water sanitation and hygiene at health facilities. It is also helping with surveillance and communicating prevention messages.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO) online Ebola dashboard, the DRC confirmed 7 more Ebola cases yesterday, raising the overall outbreak total to 2,781. Health officials are still investigating 382 suspected cases. Seventeen more people died from their infections, lifting the fatality total to 1,866.
In other developments:
See also:
Aug 6 Save the Childrenpress release
Dec 12, 2018, CIDRAP News story "Ebola outbreak grows as DRC issues alerts in Goma"
WHO online Eboladashboard
Aug 7 APstory
Aug 6Sciencestory
Aug 7 MONUSCOreport
Also, sequencing confirmed N1 and identified two HA mutations, one of which could affect vaccine development.
The findings come on the cusp of the Northern Hemisphere flu and respiratory syncytial virus seasons and rising US COVID-19 cases.
A study suggesting thatnirmatrelvir/ritonavir and molnupiravir don't prevent severe COVID-19 outcomes or long COVID is also being called into question.
Before March 2024, H5N1 had not been detected in 1,337 wastewater samples analyzed by the team.
The new findings come from the ongoing RECOVER trial and build on results seen in a 2023 trial.
While sequencing shows similarity to the virus in cattle, the epi investigation might not be able to pinpoint a source.
Wastewater levels are still high, but some indicators such as hospitalizations trended downward.
Wastewater levels are still high, but like other markers are showing a downward trend.
The CDC received reports of 22 more imported cases over the past week, raising the total to 74 from 5 states.
Tests are under way on samples from five contacts who reported symptoms.
Help make CIDRAP's vital work possible
CIDRAP - Center for Infectious Disease Research & PolicyResearch and Innovation Office, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN
Email us
© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights Reserved.The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer
Research and Innovation Office|Contact U of M|Privacy Policy
Newsletter subscribe

Title: Nine-year-old girl from Congo dies after contracting Ebola virus
A nine-year-old girl from the Democratic Republic of Congo who tested positive for Ebola in neighbouring Uganda has died.
Dr Eddy Kasenda, an Ebola representative in the Congolese border town of Kasindi, said the victim, who has not been named, will be repatriated to Congo.
A Ugandan official, stationed at the hospital where the girl had been in isolation, confirmed her death overnight on Thursday.
The girl was identified at a border screening on Wednesday as a possible Ebola patient and isolated.
The Permanent Secretary Ministry of Health Uganda, Dr. Diana Atwine, posted a message on Twitter saying the girl and her mother would be sent back to the DRC.
She wrote: "Our team at Bwera Ebola Treatment Unit in Kasese is managing an imported Ebola case. The girl is currently isolated and being prepared for repatriation back to DRC for treatment upon request of the DRC gov't."
Ugandan authorities believe the child did not have contact with any other Ugandan national.
Read more:Doctor who discovered Ebola praises decision to declare emergencyEbola outbreak in east Congo's main city tests flexibility of responseEbola: Nurse Pauline Cafferkey who beat disease gives birth
However, cross-border contamination between DR Congo and Uganda has been rare.
The Ebola virus has killed around 2,000 people in eastern DR Congo since August 2018.
More than 11,000 people died as the disease took hold across the African nations between 2013 – when the outbreak was thought to have started in Guinea – and 2016, with a handful of cases treated in the UK.
But the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared a fresh Ebola epidemic in the DR Congo in May of this year.
It is Congo's 10th Ebola outbreak, according to America's Centres for Disease Control and Prevention.
The 2014-2016 Ebola outbreak in West Africa was declared deadlier.
She was once one of the nation's best-known glamour models, but these days Jodie Marsh runs her own farm and has dramatically changed her looks to go with her new rural lifestyle
District Judge Margaret McCormack told the teenager: 'Do not treat me as an idiot'
EXCLUSIVE: Prince Harry's reaction to his brother Prince William's unexpected olive branch has said a lot about the reported "rift" within the Royal Family, according to a royal expert
There was controversy on the show as one audience member raised the point that MPs can claim up to £3500 towards their heating bills, while cutting the winter fuel allowance for pensioners
Hollywood legend Dame Joan Collins didn't mince her words while appearing on The One Show as she put a stop to Alex Jones' proposition of going to a Taylor Swift concert
EXCLUSIVE: The Princess of Wales and the Duke of Sussex were once incredibly close, leading a royal expert to claim that Kate could have played a major part in a recent decision
Keith and Chandelle dropped their car off with the valet parking service before heading off to Italy
BBC Broadcaster Naga Munchetty is a recognisable face on our screens. However, you may not recognise her from this photo of the Breakfast star with long hair…
Nigella Lawson is a beloved television star, chef and writer and the cooking icon, 64, is also a mother of two. Nigella's children tend to stay out of the spotlight but her daughter, Cosima, is her lookalike…
‘Dynamite’ drops his stunned opponent four times en route to an explosive stoppage in front of a record boxing crowd at Wembley
"I still kick myself and lament my voting decision in light of all that has transpired since."
Jurors saw surveillance video of Carly Gregg with a gun behind her back walking into her mother’s bedroom
A painting of a nude woman with her legs open has prompted a police visit to an art gallery in Mid Wales.  According to gallery owner Val Harris, the police have asked her to remove the painting under the Public Order Act, but she has refused to do so.  Ms Harris told Sky News the response the painting had received from some people was "shocking" and "rather sad".
China may be preparing a surprise attack against Japan, involving a massive missile barrage against all major U.S. and Japanese military installations, in order to maximize the effectiveness of a massive amphibious operation to conquer Taiwan.
Strictly Come Dancing fans could not wait to see celebs and professional partners such as Chris McCausland and Dianne Buswell.
Janet Jackson warned voters of the potential chaos surrounding the upcoming November election in a recent interview with The Guardian. The Grammy-winning singer also repeated false claims about Vice President Kamala Harris’ racial identity. “’Well, you know what they supposedly said?'” Jackson told the news outlet. “‘She’s not Black. That’s what I heard. That she’s …
Princess Anne ran into Lady Louise in Edinburgh – and her delight was clear to see
BBC Breakfast host Naga Munchetty was "lost for words" during Friday's show after her co-star went topless during a report…
Most people didn't notice when the former president used the term in a Truth Social post. But white nationalists did.
Actress and reality star Helen Flanagan has hit back at trolls who commented on her bikini photos and asked if she was curvier because she was pregnant

Title:  Rwanda warns vs traveling to Congo | The Manila Times 
KIGALI:All travels to Ebola-hit areas in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) should be avoided, Rwandan Health Minister Diane Gashumba said while dismissing reports that Rwanda has closed its border with the DRC.
“Unessential travels to eastern DRC, including cross-border trade should be highly avoided,” said Gashumba when addressing a press conference in Kigali.
Ad-free access

Title: Zambia intensifies Ebola screening at DRC main entry border - Punch Newspapers
Most Widely Read Newspaper
File photo on Ebola
Kindly share this story:
Health authorities have continued with screening of travelers for Ebola symptoms at a busy border entry with the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), a civic leader said on Thursday.Christabel Mulala, Mayor of Chililabombwe town on the Copperbelt Province, said the screening had been intensified since 2018 when a screening desk was established at the Kasumbalesa border.”Tight scrutiny of Ebola symptoms on people travelling in and out of DRC will continue till further notice.”And apart from conducting screening exercise the health personnel are also sensitizing travelers on the symptoms of Ebola virus,’’she said.Related NewsDRC coup attempt: Prosecutors seek death penalty for three Americans, 47 othersFG rejects foreign interference, investigates protest violenceZambia's ex-first lady arrested for money launderingMulala said the health personnel on the DRC side were also screening travelers and various transporters of goods into and outside that country.”On August. 2, the Zambian council staff and health personnel were in Kasumbalesa on the DRC side and our counterparts have also set up a desk to screen travelers,” she said.World Health Organization and partners continue to respond to Ebola virus disease outbreak in the DRC and communities in affected areas are generally supportive of the Ebola response; operations in some areas have been temporally disrupted due to insecurity.NAN
Christabel Mulala, Mayor of Chililabombwe town on the Copperbelt Province, said the screening had been intensified since 2018 when a screening desk was established at the Kasumbalesa border.”Tight scrutiny of Ebola symptoms on people travelling in and out of DRC will continue till further notice.”And apart from conducting screening exercise the health personnel are also sensitizing travelers on the symptoms of Ebola virus,’’she said.Related NewsDRC coup attempt: Prosecutors seek death penalty for three Americans, 47 othersFG rejects foreign interference, investigates protest violenceZambia's ex-first lady arrested for money launderingMulala said the health personnel on the DRC side were also screening travelers and various transporters of goods into and outside that country.”On August. 2, the Zambian council staff and health personnel were in Kasumbalesa on the DRC side and our counterparts have also set up a desk to screen travelers,” she said.World Health Organization and partners continue to respond to Ebola virus disease outbreak in the DRC and communities in affected areas are generally supportive of the Ebola response; operations in some areas have been temporally disrupted due to insecurity.NAN
”Tight scrutiny of Ebola symptoms on people travelling in and out of DRC will continue till further notice.”And apart from conducting screening exercise the health personnel are also sensitizing travelers on the symptoms of Ebola virus,’’she said.Related NewsDRC coup attempt: Prosecutors seek death penalty for three Americans, 47 othersFG rejects foreign interference, investigates protest violenceZambia's ex-first lady arrested for money launderingMulala said the health personnel on the DRC side were also screening travelers and various transporters of goods into and outside that country.”On August. 2, the Zambian council staff and health personnel were in Kasumbalesa on the DRC side and our counterparts have also set up a desk to screen travelers,” she said.World Health Organization and partners continue to respond to Ebola virus disease outbreak in the DRC and communities in affected areas are generally supportive of the Ebola response; operations in some areas have been temporally disrupted due to insecurity.NAN
”And apart from conducting screening exercise the health personnel are also sensitizing travelers on the symptoms of Ebola virus,’’she said.Related NewsDRC coup attempt: Prosecutors seek death penalty for three Americans, 47 othersFG rejects foreign interference, investigates protest violenceZambia's ex-first lady arrested for money launderingMulala said the health personnel on the DRC side were also screening travelers and various transporters of goods into and outside that country.”On August. 2, the Zambian council staff and health personnel were in Kasumbalesa on the DRC side and our counterparts have also set up a desk to screen travelers,” she said.World Health Organization and partners continue to respond to Ebola virus disease outbreak in the DRC and communities in affected areas are generally supportive of the Ebola response; operations in some areas have been temporally disrupted due to insecurity.NAN
Mulala said the health personnel on the DRC side were also screening travelers and various transporters of goods into and outside that country.”On August. 2, the Zambian council staff and health personnel were in Kasumbalesa on the DRC side and our counterparts have also set up a desk to screen travelers,” she said.World Health Organization and partners continue to respond to Ebola virus disease outbreak in the DRC and communities in affected areas are generally supportive of the Ebola response; operations in some areas have been temporally disrupted due to insecurity.NAN
”On August. 2, the Zambian council staff and health personnel were in Kasumbalesa on the DRC side and our counterparts have also set up a desk to screen travelers,” she said.World Health Organization and partners continue to respond to Ebola virus disease outbreak in the DRC and communities in affected areas are generally supportive of the Ebola response; operations in some areas have been temporally disrupted due to insecurity.NAN
World Health Organization and partners continue to respond to Ebola virus disease outbreak in the DRC and communities in affected areas are generally supportive of the Ebola response; operations in some areas have been temporally disrupted due to insecurity.NAN
NAN
Kindly share this story:
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.
Contact:[email protected]
Stay informed and ahead of the curve! Follow The Punch Newspaper on WhatsApp for real-time updates, breaking news, and exclusive content. Don't miss a headline – join now!
In uncertain times, Nigerians are safeguarding their money by earning up to 20% ROI through investments in fixed income, commodities, real estate, and more—start hereFood prices are going up, but smart Nigerians are making millions from trading foods and commodities on this app.Start here
punchng.com © 1971- 2024 Punch Nigeria Limited

Title: With security improving in DR Congo’s Kasai, thousands of refugees head home from Angola | UN News
FacebookTwitterPrintEmail
As security has improved in the restive Kasai region of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), some 8,500 refugees have left the Lóvua settlement in Angola’s north-east Lunda Norte province in the past week, hoping to cross the border and return home, according to the UN refugee agency.
“More than a thousand refugees have already crossed into DRC and many others are moving towards the border with DRC’s Kasai region,” Andrej Mahecic, spokesperson for the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), told journalists in Geneva on Friday.
The deadly clashes in the Kasai region between armed groups and DRC forces in 2017 had left some 1.4 million people displaced from their homes, with 37,000 refugees having crossed the border into Angola.
The recovering security situation in Kasai Provinces, together with presidential elections, recent discussions between the visiting DRC officials and refugees, and the upcoming academic year, sparked this week’s spontaneous returns.
“We have placed staff along the return routes to monitor, interview and to intervene with help where necessary,” said Mr. Mahecic, adding that “UNHCRstaff are also providing information to refugees.”
Meanwhile in DRC, the UN refugee agency is working with local authorities to conduct monitoring at the border to evaluate these returns and get first-hand information to meet the humanitarian needs of those arrive back home.
The agency is also participating in tripartite discussions with Angola and DRC to launch a mechanism for voluntary, dignified and sustainable returns.
While noting refugees’ eagerness to return home, UNHCR appealed to both Governments to avoid putting refugees at risk due to an absence of proper planning, transportation and assistance.
FacebookTwitterPrintEmail

Title: Ministers assess situation of Congolese refugees - Angola | ReliefWeb
Angola+ 1 more
Dundo - Angola's ministers of Defense, Salviano de Jesus Sequeira, and Social Action, Family and Woman Promotion, Faustina Fernandes Alves, started assessing this Monday, in eastern Lunda Norte, the current situation of the Democratic Republic of Congo refugees.
The visit of the Angolan officials comes after at least 8,000 refugees out of the overall 23,600 located in Lóvua, eastern Lunda Norte, abruptly decided to walk out of Angola.
In Dundo city, the refugees walked an overall distance of 80 to 90 kilometers towards Angola/DRC border.
According to the source, the Angolan government is negotiating with remaining refugees, more than 90 percent of the total, to dissuade them from returning to DRC without supportive logistical condition.
According to ANGOP source, the recommendation for not abruptly leave Lóvua fields has been given by  the parts involved in the repatriation process, namely Angola, DRC and United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
To recall that in July the government of the eastern Lunda Norte (Angola) and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) assessed the repatriation process of over 20,000 refugees from Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) accommodated in that region since May 2017.
The negotiations arose due to the fact that in June this year, 85 percent of the refugees expressed willingness to return home saying that the causes that forced them to abandon their country no longer existed.
However, the meeting decided that the Angolan authorities needed to reach soon an agreement with DRC for compliance with repatriation norms and speed up Angola/DRC / UNHCR tripartite meeting to define the date for the beginning of the repatriation process.
The DRC citizens abandoned their country to be a refugee in Angola, due to the extreme and generalized violence caused by ethnical and political tensions that hit this African nation in 2017
DR Congo+ 4 more
DR Congo
DR Congo
DR Congo
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: 
Rwanda warns against traveling to Ebola-hit areas in DRC, dismisses reports of border closure - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KIGALI, Aug. 1 (Xinhua) -- All travels to Ebola-hit areas in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) should be avoided, Rwandan Health Minister Diane Gashumba said Thursday while dismissing reports that Rwanda has closed its border with the DRC.
"Unessential travels to eastern DRC, including cross-border trade should be highly avoided," said Gashumba when addressing a press conference in Kigali.
In response to earlier reports saying that Rwanda has closed its border with the DRC, she noted that Rwanda's border with DRC remains open, adding that the government would issue a statement in case of a temporary closure at the border.
Traffic at the border slowed down on Thursday morning as measures were put in place to reinforce screening procedures and public safety at entry points, she said.
The minister also cautioned against illegal crossings from or to the DRC.
She emphasized the need to seek immediate medical advice when falling ill during or immediately after traveling to the DRC.
The presidency's office of the DRC said in a statement earlier on Thursday that Rwanda has closed its border with its western neighbor after a man died of Ebola in the populous eastern DRC city of Goma, which borders Rwanda to the east.
The man, in his 40s, has tested positive for the deadly virus and died on Wednesday in Goma. He was the second confirmed Ebola case in the city.
The DRC health authorities announced late Wednesday the confirmation of a third case in Goma.
This week marks one year since the start of the ongoing Ebola outbreak in the DRC that has already killed more than 1,700 people, making it the second worst Ebola outbreak in history.
Several United Nations agencies on Wednesday issued a joint statement calling for solidarity to end the current Ebola outbreak in the DRC.
"At this critical juncture, we reaffirm our collective commitment to the people of the DRC; we mourn those we have lost; and we call for solidarity to end this outbreak," the joint statement said.
Rwanda has a detailed National Preparedness Plan for Ebola in place and has trained health workers in early detection and response, educated communities about Ebola, vaccinated health workers in high-risk areas, put up health facilities, and continues to conduct simulation exercises to maintain a high level of readiness.
Screening for Ebola symptoms at points of entry has been ongoing since the beginning of the outbreak in the DRC, and has been reinforced since the confirmation of a case in Goma.
An Ebola Treatment Center was put in place in the country and 23 isolation units are being prepared in hospitals in 15 priority districts. Ebola response simulation exercises are conducted on a regular basis within the communities, borders, airports and treatment center to test Rwanda's preparedness in response to a case, which includes emergency operations center activation, active surveillance, case management and laboratory testing.
About 3,000 health workers in high-risk areas have been vaccinated as a preventive measure, and over 23,000 people including doctors, nurses, hospital staff, community health workers, religious leaders, Red Cross volunteers and security organs have been trained.
Xinhua Headlines: Pingxiang, the making of a Chinese "sponge city"
Xinhua Headlines: The digital tax is re-aggravating EU-U.S. trade tensions
Exhibition of Albert Einstein opens to public in Shanghai
2nd giant panda cub named Yi Yi, marking close China-Malaysia friendship
Summer scenery across China
Scenery of Lake Manasarovar in SW China's Tibet
Giant panda Mao Zhu celebrates 5-year birthday
Scenery of terraced field in Pengyang County, China's Ningxia

Title: 
Angolan ministerial delegation assesses situation of DRC refugees in northern province - Xinhua | English.news.cn

DUNDO, Angola, Aug. 19 (Xinhua) -- Angolan authorities on Monday started to assess the situation of refugees from Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) accommodated in Angola, as part of the repatriation process it undertook with the UN.
A ministerial delegation led by Angolan Defense Minister Salviano de Jesus Sequeira, and Faustina Fernandes Alves, minister of social action, families and promotion of women, are in eastern Lunda Norte province to conduct the assessment.
Their visit came after at least 8,000 refugees out of the overall 23,600 located in Lovua, a city in Lunda Norte, abruptly walked towards Angola's border with the DRC on Sunday.
The Angolan government is negotiating with the remaining refugees to dissuade them from returning to the DRC without the creation of logistical condition for their relocation.
The recommendation for remaining at the Lovua refugee field was issued by the relevant parties involved in the repatriation process, namely Angola, the DRC and United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
In June, some 85 percent of the refugees expressed willingness to return home, saying that the causes that forced them to abandon their country no longer existed.
Earlier negotiations have decided that the Angolan authorities needed to soon reach an agreement with the DRC for compliance with repatriation norms, and speed up Angola/DRC/UNHCR tripartite meeting to determine the date for the beginning of the repatriation process.
Congolese refugees have been found in eastern Lunda Norte province since May 2017.
Xi visits cultural heritage site in Gansu
"Peace Train-2019" China-Laos joint rescue exercise held in Vientiane
Over 40 killed in rain-related incidents in India's 3 states in last 24 hours
Afghans celebrate Afghan Independence Day
Giant pandas Gong Gong, Shun Shun celebrate 6th birthday in Haikou
General view of Kunming, SW China
Scenery along highway linking Lhasa, Nyingchi
Sesame Street Run held in Pasay City, the Philippines

Title: 
Zambia intensifies Ebola screening at DRC main entry border - Xinhua | English.news.cn

CHILILABOMBWE, Zambia, Aug. 8 (Xinhua) -- Health authorities have continued with screening of travelers for Ebola symptoms at a busy border entry with the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), a civic leader said on Thursday.
Christabel Mulala, mayor of Chililabombwe town on the Copperbelt Province, said the screen has been intensified since last year when a screening desk was established at the Kasumbalesa border.
"Tight scrutiny of Ebola symptoms on people travelling in and out of DRC will continue till further notice, and apart from conducting screening exercise the health personnel are also sensitizing travelers on the symptoms of Ebola virus, "she said.
In an interview with Xinhua, Mulala said the health personnel on the DRC side are also screening travelers and various transporters of goods into and outside that country.
"Last week the Zambian council staff and health personnel were in Kasumbalesa on the DRC side and our counterparts have also set up a desk to screen travelers," she said.
World Health Organization and partners continue to respond to Ebola virus disease outbreak in the DRC, while communities in affected areas are generally supportive of the Ebola response, operations in some areas have been temporally disrupted due to insecurity.
China sees rapid income, consumption growth in rural areas over past 70 years
China braces for Typhoon Lekima
11th Panchen Lama worships on bank of Nam Co Lake in China's Tibet
Italy on brink of gov't crisis after Salvini calls for snap elections
Ecological tourism helps promote township's revenue in China's Zhejiang
Water festival held in Baoting Autonomous County of Li and Miao in Hainan
People have fun at Nantian Lake scenic area in Chongqing
In pics: Sun Island Scenic Area of Harbin in NE China

Title: Leadership News - Nigeria News, Nigerian Newspaper, Breaking News And More
© 2024Leadership Media Group-All Rights Reserved.
© 2024Leadership Media Group-All Rights Reserved.

Title: Zambia intensifies Ebola screening at DRC main entry border - China.org.cn
视频播放位置
CHILILABOMBWE, Zambia, Aug. 8 (Xinhua) -- Health authorities have continued with screening of travelers for Ebola symptoms at a busy border entry with the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), a civic leader said on Thursday.
Christabel Mulala, mayor of Chililabombwe town on the Copperbelt Province, said the screen has been intensified since last year when a screening desk was established at the Kasumbalesa border.
"Tight scrutiny of Ebola symptoms on people travelling in and out of DRC will continue till further notice, and apart from conducting screening exercise the health personnel are also sensitizing travelers on the symptoms of Ebola virus, "she said.
In an interview with Xinhua, Mulala said the health personnel on the DRC side are also screening travelers and various transporters of goods into and outside that country.
"Last week the Zambian council staff and health personnel were in Kasumbalesa on the DRC side and our counterparts have also set up a desk to screen travelers," she said.
World Health Organization and partners continue to respond to Ebola virus disease outbreak in the DRC, while communities in affected areas are generally supportive of the Ebola response, operations in some areas have been temporally disrupted due to insecurity. Enditem
