Title: Ugandan army attacks rebel camps in eastern Congo | Africanews
Please select your experience
Copy/paste the script below
OTHER WIDGETS
The Ugandan army on Friday attacked rebel camps in eastern Congo, an army spokesman said.
“We have attacked ADF bases in Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC)R Congo this afternoon. Shared intelligence between Uganda and the DRC, confirmed that the ADF terrorists who recently carried out attack on UN peace keepers under MONUSCO, were planning to conduct hostile activities against Uganda. In a preemptive move, this afternoon UPDF conducted attacks on their camps in Eastern DRC,” he said.
The spokesperson however clarified that the Ugandan army didn’t enter the territory of DRC, rather they used long range guns and planes to attack the ADF bases.
“ADF terrorists may only buy time but will be targeted wherever they are hiding!,” he said. Local media reported that the Ugandan army deployed heavily along the DRC-Uganda border following the deadly attack that killed 15 UN peacekeepers in Eastern Congo.
The attack was attributed to the ADF and the Uganda People’s Defence Forces (UPDF) explained that the deployment followed reports that the rebels planned to attack Uganda.
In the 1990s, the ADF rebels terrorized the Rwenzori region in the districts of Kasese, Bundibugyo and Kabarole for over a decade. During the insurgency, the rebels are believed to have killed more than 3,000 people and displaced 100,000.
The last time Uganda sent its troops into DRC in pursuit of rebels, it was charged for plunder of the country’s resources.
The International Court of Justice, the UN’s highest court, ruled that Uganda was guilty of “occupying Ituri (a region in the DRC), violations of sovereignty, illegal use of force, violations of international human rights laws and looting and plunder” between August 1998 and June 2003.


Title: Africa's Sula Iron and Gold changes gear with DRC cobalt license - MINING.COM
News
Markets
Intelligence
Careers
Education
Buyers Guide
LONDON (Reuters) – Junior explorer Sula Iron and Gold plans to change its name to African Battery Metals, reflecting a shift in focus after it bought a controlling stake in a cobalt license in Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).
The deal, which needs to be approved by shareholders later this month, would make Sula Iron and Gold the first AIM-listed company to run the risk of developing cobalt in DRC, its CEO said.
DRC is plagued by conflict, political tumult and issues of child labor, but is also home to around two-thirds of the world’s cobalt supplies.
CEO Roger Murphy said in a telephone interview his company had a competitive advantage through its links with Madini Minerals, a private company with experience of working in DRC. Its partners include Murphy and another Sula board member.
So far, DRC production has been dominated by Glencore and China Molybdenum.
Canada’s First Cobalt Corp said in September it had decided to focus its efforts on Canadian cobalt, abandoning seven cobalt exploration properties in DRC it had considered.
Analysts say more companies might have to consider DRC as demand for phone and electric vehicle batteries drives demand. Cobalt prices have more than doubled this year.
Broker SP Angel said in a note the license acquisition “provides the London market with a new exploration exposure to the growing interest in cobalt as a battery metal”.
Until now Sula Iron and Gold was focused on iron ore and gold in Sierra Leone. Murphy said the aim was to continue to develop those assets but through a subsidiary named Blue Horizon and the company may seek a joint venture partner.
In DRC, African Battery Metals will explore a license area of 55 square kilometers near existing cobalt and copper mines.
Murphy said the company was paying $100,000 in two tranches for the licensed area, which is sold by DRC lawyer and businessman Jean-Pierre Mwamby, who retains a 30 percent stake.
The company has also raised 1.75 million pounds ($2.34 million) before expenses through a share placement.
($1 = 0.7473 pounds)
(Reporting by Barbara Lewis; additional reporting by Nicole Mordant in Vancouver; Editing by Adrian Croft)

Title: Paradise Papers: US puts sanctions on billionaire over dealings in DRC | Paradise Papers | The Guardian
US says Dan Gertler, whose affairs were exposed in leaked files, has amassed fortune through ‘opaque and corrupt’ deals
The US government has imposed sanctions on the Israeli billionaire Dan Gertler, whose African business dealings were exposed in the Paradise Papers, over “hundreds of millions of dollars’ worth of opaque and corrupt mining and oil deals” in theDemocratic Republic of the Congo.
In a strongly worded statement, the US president, Donald Trump, placed sanctions on 13 people and companies associated with them, declaring a state of “national emergency with respect to serious human rights abuse and corruption around the world”.
In November, theParadise Papers investigation unveiled new details of Gertler’s mining deals in strife-torn but resource-rich DRC, in particular over a $45m loan in shares to one of his companies from the world’s biggest miner, Glencore.
In imposing sanctions on Gertler, the US Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) said the Israeli billionaire’s corrupt dealings had deprived the state coffers of DRC of hundreds of millions of dollars. “Dan Gertler is an international businessman and billionaire who has amassed his fortune through hundreds of millions of dollars’ worth of opaque and corrupt mining and oil deals in the Democratic Republic of the Congo,” it said.
“Gertler has used his close friendship with DRC president Joseph Kabila to act as a middleman for mining asset sales in the DRC, requiring some multinational companies to go through Gertler to do business with the Congolese state.”
Because of Gertler’s deals, the US OFAC said, in just three years, the DRC reportedly lost more than $1.36bn in revenues from the underpricing of mining assets that were sold to offshore companies linked to Gertler.
Twenty companies linked to Gertler, including the Gertler Family Foundation, have also been proscribed.
“Today, the United States is taking a strong stand against human rights abuse and corruption globally by shutting these bad actors out of the US financial system,” the US treasury secretary, Steven T Mnuchin, said.
“Treasury is freezing their assets and publicly denouncing the egregious acts they have committed, sending a message that there is a steep price to pay for their misdeeds.”
Contacted by the Guardian, Gertler declined to comment on the imposition of US sanctions.
The sanctions will increase pressure on companies to cut all links to Gertler and his companies. US citizens are prohibited from dealing with individuals and companies under sanctions.
Documents revealed within the Paradise Papersshowed that several times over 2008 and 2009, Gertler was called in to negotiate with DRC authorities over the struggling Katanga copper mine in the south-east of the country, which was mired in stalled talks to secure a joint-venture agreement with the DRC’s state-run miner Gécamines.
In 2009, Glencore, through a loan offer, took effective control of Katanga, but also kept Gertler’s interest in the company by secretly loaning his company, Lora Enterprises, $45m in pledged shares for him to take part in the loan. Gertler, known for his close relationship with the DRC’s president and key adviser, was also explicitly mandated with securing the mining agreement.
Glencore loaned Gertler the $45m on the express condition that it would be repayable if an agreement was not reached with DRC authorities.
Katanga ultimately won a mining agreement discounted by more than $400m on the initial signing price demanded by the DRC authorities.
Glencore and Gertler’s dealings in the DRC were exposed in theParadise Papers, a leaked cache of more than 13m documents, most of which came from within the law firm Appleby, which specialises in offshore tax structures for the global super-wealthy. The papers were obtained by the German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung, and published by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, the Guardian and more than 90 media partners across the world in November this year.
Gertler’s involvement in the DRC spans nearly two decades. He was cited by a 2001 UN investigation that said he had given the DRC’s then-president $20m to buy weapons to equip his army against rebel groups in exchange for a monopoly on the country’s diamonds, and a 2013 Africa Progress Panel report said a string of mining deals struck by companies linked to him had deprived the country of more than $1.3bn in potential revenue.
Glencore cut ties with Gertler in February, buying him out of his share in their shared assets in the DRC for $534m.
That decision followed a September 2016 US Department of Justice deferred prosecution agreement against the New York hedge fund Och-Ziff which, while not naming Gertler, implicated “an Israeli businessman” precisely matching Gertler’s description and running companies owned by him in bribing DRC government officials for tens of millions of dollars in order to win favourable contracts and terms.
Gertler has consistently rejected all allegations of wrongdoing and DRC has denied any involvement in bribery. It has praised Gertler’s commitment to the development of the DRC.
In response to theParadise Papersrevelations, lawyers for Gertler said in a statement: “Mr Dan Gertler is a respectable businessman who contributes the vast majority of his wealth and time to the needy and to different communities, amounting to huge sums of money. He transacts business fairly and honestly, and strictly according to the law.”
Daniel Balint-Kurti, head of investigations for Global Witness, the anti-corruption NGO that first exposed Gertler’s alleged dealings in the DRC, said the US sanctions would put pressure on both Gertler and Kabila’s government in the DRC.
“Kabila has been delaying elections repeatedly. We’ve seen protests being cracked down on, generally a lack of tolerance for the opposition. If you wanted to pressure the government, then putting the screws on Gertler is a way to do that.”
Balint-Kurti said the sanctions would also affect Gertler’s other business partners, in particular Glencore.
“We’ve just seen with the Paradise Papers some big revelations about how close Glencore and Gertler were. Their business relationship went a lot further than Glencore ever admitted. Now we see sanctions being put on their most important business partner in the DRC, and that clearly has huge implications reputationally.”
Balint-Kurti said the Paradise Papers revealed, for the first time, that Glencore was rewarding Gertler for acting as its intermediary with the Congolese government. “Those documents contained very important revelations for Glencore.”
A spokesperson for Glencore said: “Glencore complies with applicable sanctions.”
Global Witness said the US sanctions announcement was welcome, and potentially the start of further action against corruption in Africa.
“We hope that authorities in the US, Israel, DRC and the Netherlands consider opening criminal investigations. Western businessmen have been looting Congo for too long.”

Title: 
Uganda says DR Congo endorsed attack on ADF rebels in eastern region - Xinhua | English.news.cn


File photo shows Ugandan soldiers march during celebrations for Uganda's 50th independence anniversary in Kampala, Uganda, Oct. 9, 2012. (Xinhua/Yuan Qing)
KAMPALA, Dec. 22 (Xinhua) -- The Ugandan military on Friday said the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) endorsed its attack on the rebel Allied Democratic Force (ADF) in the eastern part of the vast central African country.
Army spokesman Brig. Richard Karemire said in a statement that the leaders of the two countries have been in talks on possible ways of eliminating the ADF, a Ugandan rebel group holed up in eastern DRC.
"Recently, the DRC authorities proposed that the two countries plan and conduct limited joint operations against this growing terrorist menace in our neighborhood," Karemire said.
Karemire said this understanding led to this afternoon's attack on the ADF bases using fighter jets.
"These terrorists should know that they may only buy time, but will be targeted wherever they are," Karemire said.
The military in a statement issued here said the troops carried out a preemptive attack after receiving intelligence information that rebels were planning to attack Uganda.
"In a preemptive move, this afternoon UPDF (Uganda People's Defense Forces) conducted attacks on their camps in eastern DRC. ADF terrorists may only buy time but will be targeted wherever they are hiding!" the statement said.
Karemire told Xinhua in an interview later that the military used fighter jets.
"Our troops didn't enter DRC. We employed the Air forces and long range artillery to carry out the attacks," he said.
The ADF have been blamed for recent attacks in eastern DRC including the Dec. 7 killing of 15 Tanzanian UN peacekeepers in North Kivu province.

File photo shows Ugandan soldiers march during celebrations for Uganda's 50th independence anniversary in Kampala, Uganda, Oct. 9, 2012. (Xinhua/Yuan Qing)
KAMPALA, Dec. 22 (Xinhua) -- The Ugandan military on Friday said the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) endorsed its attack on the rebel Allied Democratic Force (ADF) in the eastern part of the vast central African country.
Army spokesman Brig. Richard Karemire said in a statement that the leaders of the two countries have been in talks on possible ways of eliminating the ADF, a Ugandan rebel group holed up in eastern DRC.
"Recently, the DRC authorities proposed that the two countries plan and conduct limited joint operations against this growing terrorist menace in our neighborhood," Karemire said.
Karemire said this understanding led to this afternoon's attack on the ADF bases using fighter jets.
"These terrorists should know that they may only buy time, but will be targeted wherever they are," Karemire said.
The military in a statement issued here said the troops carried out a preemptive attack after receiving intelligence information that rebels were planning to attack Uganda.
"In a preemptive move, this afternoon UPDF (Uganda People's Defense Forces) conducted attacks on their camps in eastern DRC. ADF terrorists may only buy time but will be targeted wherever they are hiding!" the statement said.
Karemire told Xinhua in an interview later that the military used fighter jets.
"Our troops didn't enter DRC. We employed the Air forces and long range artillery to carry out the attacks," he said.
The ADF have been blamed for recent attacks in eastern DRC including the Dec. 7 killing of 15 Tanzanian UN peacekeepers in North Kivu province.
Copyright © 2000 - 2016 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.

Title: Africa's Sula Iron and Gold changes gear with DRC... | Daily Mail Online
ByReuters
Published:13:51 EDT, 11 December 2017|Updated:13:51 EDT, 11 December 2017


By Barbara Lewis
LONDON, Dec 11 (Reuters) - Junior explorer Sula Iron and Gold plans to change its name to African Battery Metals, reflecting a shift in focus after it bought a controlling stake in a cobalt licence in Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).
The deal, which needs to be approved by shareholders later this month, would make Sula Iron and Gold the first AIM-listed company to run the risk of developing cobalt in DRC, its CEO said.
DRC is plagued by conflict, political tumult and issues of child labour, but is also home to around two-thirds of the world's cobalt supplies.
CEO Roger Murphy said in a telephone interview his company had a competitive advantage through its links with Madini Minerals, a private company with experience of working in DRC. Its partners include Murphy and another Sula board member.
So far, DRC production has been dominated by Glencore and China Molybdenum.
Canada's First Cobalt Corp said in September it had decided to focus its efforts on Canadian cobalt, abandoning seven cobalt exploration properties in DRC it had considered.
Analysts say more companies might have to consider DRC as demand for phone and electric vehicle batteries drives demand. Cobalt prices have more than doubled this year.
Broker SP Angel said in a note the licence acquisition "provides the London market with a new exploration exposure to the growing interest in cobalt as a battery metal".
Until now Sula Iron and Gold was focused on iron ore and gold in Sierra Leone. Murphy said the aim was to continue to develop those assets but through a subsidiary named Blue Horizon and the company may seek a joint venture partner.
In DRC, African Battery Metals will explore a licence area of 55 square kilometres near existing cobalt and copper mines.
Murphy said the company was paying $100,000 in two tranches for the licensed area, which is sold by DRC lawyer and businessman Jean-Pierre Mwamby, who retains a 30 percent stake.
The company has also raised 1.75 million pounds ($2.34 million) before expenses through a share placement. ($1 = 0.7473 pounds) (Reporting by Barbara Lewis; additional reporting by Nicole Mordant in Vancouver; Editing by Adrian Croft)
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group

Title: 
Uganda, DR Congo agree to share intelligence to fight ADF rebels - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KAMPALA, Dec. 19 (Xinhua) -- Ugandan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) authorities have agreed to strengthen liaison mechanisms and share intelligence information in a bid to defeat the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) rebels following their deadly attack on UN peacekeepers.
Brig. Richard Karemire, Ugandan military spokesperson, told Xinhua on Tuesday that the Ugandan government and DRC's North Kivu officials held a bilateral security meeting in the western Ugandan district of Mbarara over the weekend.
"Sharing information will help forces to be better prepared to deter infiltration and possible attacks by the ADF," said Karemire.
The Ugandan delegation led by Bright Rwamirama, state minister for defense and veteran affairs, met with DRC's North Kivu province regional officials.
The ADF attacked the UN peacekeepers in eastern DRC's North Kivu province on Dec. 7, killing at least 15 Tanzanian blue helmets, five DRC soldiers and wounded 53 others.
Uganda last week called for the operationalization of a regional military center in the western district of Kasese to intensify the fight against the ADF.
The center -- Joint Regional Military Center of the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR) -- was established in 2016 to monitor and gather intelligence on rebel activities and share it with member states.
ICGLR is a regional intergovernmental body that comprises 12 countries -- Uganda, Angola, Burundi, Central African Republic, DRC, Republic of Congo, Rwanda, Sudan, Kenya, South Sudan, Tanzania and Zambia.
The ADF is accused of increased killings and massacres of troops and civilians, rape and abductions over the past three months in eastern DRC.
Chinese scientist among Nature magazine's 10 people who matter in science
Commemoration of 1st anniv. of Christmas market attack held in Berlin
Panda cub Xiang Xiang meets public at Tokyo zoo
China's passenger ship "Harmony Yungang" leaves for South Korea
Birds on Gaoligong Mountain attract tourists
In pics: Icicles scenery in Gansu
Second plane of C919 makes first test flight in Shanghai
In pics: rime scenery on outskirts of Jilin City

Title: Uganda, DR Congo agree to share intelligence to fight ADF rebels - New Vision Official
Dec 20, 2017
PIC: State minister for defense and veteran affairs Bright RwamiramaREBELLION | ADFXinhua- Ugandan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) authorities have agreed to strengthen liaison mechanisms and share intelligence information in a bid to defeat the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) rebels following their deadly attack on UN peacekeepers.Brig. Richard Karemire, Ugandan military spokesperson, told Xinhua on Tuesday that the Ugandan government and DRC's North Kivu officials held a bilateral security meeting in the western Ugandan district of Mbarara over the weekend."Sharing information will help forces to be better prepared to deter infiltration and possible attacks by the ADF," said Karemire.The Ugandan delegation led by Bright Rwamirama, state minister for defense and veteran affairs, met with DRC's North Kivu province regional officials.The ADF attacked the UN peacekeepers in eastern DRC's North Kivu province on Dec. 7, killing at least 15 Tanzanian blue helmets, five DRC soldiers and wounded 53 others.Uganda last week called for the operationalization of a regional military center in the western district of Kasese to intensify the fight against the ADF.The center -- Joint Regional Military Center of the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR) -- was established in 2016 to monitor and gather intelligence on rebel activities and share it with member states.ICGLR is a regional intergovernmental body that comprises 12 countries -- Uganda, Angola, Burundi, Central African Republic, DRC, Republic of Congo, Rwanda, Sudan, Kenya, South Sudan, Tanzania and Zambia.The ADF is accused of increased killings and massacres of troops and civilians, rape and abductions over the past three months in eastern DRC.
PIC: State minister for defense and veteran affairs Bright RwamiramaREBELLION | ADF
Xinhua- Ugandan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) authorities have agreed to strengthen liaison mechanisms and share intelligence information in a bid to defeat the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) rebels following their deadly attack on UN peacekeepers.
Brig. Richard Karemire, Ugandan military spokesperson, told Xinhua on Tuesday that the Ugandan government and DRC's North Kivu officials held a bilateral security meeting in the western Ugandan district of Mbarara over the weekend.
"Sharing information will help forces to be better prepared to deter infiltration and possible attacks by the ADF," said Karemire.
The Ugandan delegation led by Bright Rwamirama, state minister for defense and veteran affairs, met with DRC's North Kivu province regional officials.
The ADF attacked the UN peacekeepers in eastern DRC's North Kivu province on Dec. 7, killing at least 15 Tanzanian blue helmets, five DRC soldiers and wounded 53 others.
Uganda last week called for the operationalization of a regional military center in the western district of Kasese to intensify the fight against the ADF.
The center -- Joint Regional Military Center of the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR) -- was established in 2016 to monitor and gather intelligence on rebel activities and share it with member states.
ICGLR is a regional intergovernmental body that comprises 12 countries -- Uganda, Angola, Burundi, Central African Republic, DRC, Republic of Congo, Rwanda, Sudan, Kenya, South Sudan, Tanzania and Zambia.
The ADF is accused of increased killings and massacres of troops and civilians, rape and abductions over the past three months in eastern DRC.