Title: Zambia : Amos Chanda explains the importance of the DRC Trip for the Funeral of Etienne Tshisekedi


To subscribe, simply enter your email address on our website or click the subscribe button below. Don't worry, we respect your privacy and won't spam your inbox. Your information is safe with us.
Share
Special Assistant to the President for Press and Public Relations, Amos Chanda, has said that, despite auteristy measure introduced by the Government, the trip to the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) for the funeral of the opposition leader Etienne Tshisekedi, who died two years ago was a necessity.
In a post, seemingly responding to criticism about the trip, Mr Chanda said that there were certain crucial matters of state that would always be an exception and this trip was one of them, and wondered how President Lungu would not honour a special invitation from sister nation without any good reason.
Below is the full post
In any difficult economic period, people are easily irritable but I can assure you in terms of the “unspoken nuances” and “ intricacies” of international diplomacy, the massive “hidden benefits” of good neighborliness, this trip would have justified even a larger delegation.
This is the first trip to the DRC by H.E President Lungu since he assumed power in 2015! Need I say more!
In this delegation, there are three provincial ministers (Luapula, North Western and Copperbelt) whose territories border the DRC; the only female gender in the delegation is Livestock & Fisheries Minister Hon Kampamba Mulenga ( DRC remains one of Zambia’s largest livestock and Agro markets).
Yes, Etienne Tshisekedi was an opposition leader who died two years ago, but whose son is it that is now president there? How would President Lungu not honour a special invitation from sister nation without any good reason.
Yes, we in austerity time, but there are certain crucial matters of state that would always be an exception. This was a hugely necessary gesture at state -to- state level.
On the sidelines of the state funeral, President Lungu held tripartite talks with his DRC host and H.E Dennis Sassa Nguesso of Congo Brazzaville. In this meeting the President was accompanied by relevant ministers in the delegation.
And in terms of the inviolability of the “principle of reciprocity” in diplomatic practice, this one day trip was a necessary reciprocal act to honour the DRC president’s visit to Zambia early last year.
Within this year the increased positive exchanges between Zambia and DRC will assure the two peoples of the necessity of sisterhood of these two nations.
keep defending them….one you will be answerable beve ninshi bali mufyalo
Ba Lungu need to grow up. That is a funeral of an elder, therefore he should have gone with respectable people like:Yaluma, Mukupa, Inonge, Sumaili, Chief Nkana, Chief Kazembe. And people would not have complained that much.But he takes the worst cheap criminals like Kaizer pick-pocketing at funeral, and Amos taking selfies. It is the people he picks which annoys people. Ba Lungu, chinjeni abanenu….
I don’t believe anything this Toad says.
Im a phd holder.
Thanks
BB2014,2016
They justify anything including a funeral of someone who passed 2 years ago…they have no shame these crooks.
There is COSAFA today, but as usual these State House spoils Zambian atmosphere….. annoying
Ati ” This is the first trip to the DRC by H.E President Lungu since he assumed power…He assumed POWER?
Tinpot dictator language
I highly doubt this is the first time Lazy Lungu has visited DRC maybe officially but I know for fact the old jet 9JONE registered on Flight24/7 radar.On firsts…when is he going to address a Press conference at State House since he got elected?
Who keeps a corpse for 2 years…not even chicken or meat in my fridge is deemed edible for that long.
PF and ECL will never change.Zambians are just too naive .Character can not be counterfeited.They can only be removed. It is Zambians that must remove them.
Guys I am in another predicament. My mixed race son’s blonde girlfriend has just sent me a text message saying she thinks am cute and fit. You people what would you do in my position? I blame these good looks. I am tired of people hitting on me at my age. Should I tell my son?
#2
I would say to you
Go F***ck your mother. And lick her Clito***
If you are female go suck your dads D***K
You are a sick human being. Keep your imaginary family to your yourself. Really do you think you are scoring points or making people laugh.
Go and have your mind checked !!!
Lusakatimes we dont need this trash. This is not freedom of expression but abusing privileges
LT characters like this should be banned from this site. This is pretty much spamming this site. You banned him before please do the needy again.
I can smell the feaces surrounding my post. They are out in full force. Can Lusaka timed do the right thing and ban the gut using foul language please
He really Wants to imitate Mushota. Do you also have a quack doctorate?
The pf will defend anything even if lungu anyela pa mukazi wake ati i it’s good for development. My Swiss wife is very disappointed in us Zambians. Update bane it seems my wife might be pregnant l. We have been trying. I will let you all know soon once confirmed
That plastic doll isn’t pregnant, it is a balloon, you just over pumped it. Follow instructions, before it burst leaving you with an erection on a Sunday afternoon.
Nostrad.i.c.kson kikiki jealousy will kill you bro. Just because your right palm is your partner does not mean we all are tbat pathetic. Ama hule fulu ku England. Go out and meet some one so that u not angry at us who are happy and married
Another Eswatini ” luggage” soon.
Nostrad.i.c.kson kikiki jealousy will kill you bro. Just because your right palm is your partner does not mean we all are tbat pathetic. Ama h.u.l.e fulu ku England. Go out and meet some one so that u not angry at us who are happy and married
and when is the president going to speak to the Zambian pipo through a press conference on the happenings in this country.
He’s a coward he’s scared of the press Scared of HH scared of Kambwili scared of everything except flying
Fidel Alejandro Castro Ruz (the late) former Cuban communist revolutionary and politician who governed the Republic of Cuba as Prime Minister from 1959 to 1976 and then as President from 1976 to 2008.He said “When you know TEACH when do not know LEARN. PF government doesn’t want to LEARN they want TEACH”. The Macroeconomic and Monetary policies are not working. KCM is a sacrificial lamb as it is one of mining giant which financed PF coffers during the presidential and general election. There are still making more or worse Political and Economic mistakes daily.
I just could not resist a pop at your lies Chanda ……
What bilateral talks can be held on a Saturday, at a funeral. ????
Plezzz , your lies and excuses are getting pathetic
He thinks we are PF yes men waiting cap in hand for freebies do we will agree with all the shiit he spews
Na malilo kuli invitation shuwa? This is one hell of a hopeless spokesperson if ever there was gauging mwe. Ine nadabwa maningi ndithu! You make deals ku malilo iwe ka Amon (Oh!? Ni Amos ka?)
I think as a nation, this was a good trip especially that Etienne was father to current presido in DRC. DRC is very strategic nation to us.Mr Chanda you are spot on here. Kudos. I am usually critical of my president, but I think this was a good decision. Good luck.
You, did you see the size of that delegation, to attend a funeral of the father of a president ??? Not even a former president…
Only Paul kigame attended with a 4 man team and the Brazzaville president also attended and lungu with a plane load of PF

Amos you should have just kept quiet. No need to be spinning. Don’t insult Zambians.
The logistics of the trip, cost Zambian Tax Payers. The best you could have done is to just send a representative from the ministry of foreign affairs.
This is the father of the president. Not the president of Congo. The people of Congo mourned him a long time ago.
Why didn’t these fyuuls obey my instructions? I directed that His Excellency must be quarantined in order to save costs as per cabinet emergency resolutions. And what do these PF fyuuls do? They leave the keys to state house in the custody of that low thinking cadre Amos Chanda!!
Tomorrow you must bring the keys to me, without fail!!
Chanda was among the 25 man PF delegation that filled the presidential jet ,
And Amos Chanda, so what have you said little boy? That was rub..bish, try again when you come back from your night school lessons in civics.
Bane I do not like Amos Chanda, but he is right when he says there are certain trips that you can not quantify in terms of diplomacy. Even you people condemning, do you not go for funerals of people even when your home budgets are tight.
Some people are just dullards how can you make comparisons between a govt and a homestead regarding this issue…do you have diplomats all over the country to represent your family? The sad part is that this is the calibre of advisors that surround Lazy Lungu…they have a simplistic view of issues: if some criticises then he is opposition…this is why Bowman was distributing food stuffs with proceeds of crime just after FIC report as he does not understand the ramifications of such actions. There is no leadership everyone is his own boss provided you dont challenge the main boss.
there is nothing wrong with lungu attending, even though the man was an opposition figure, it is the fact lungu goes with a plane full of people all getting paid GRZ allawances, just for the sake of filling up the seats in the plane.
Checking one two
The huge entourage as usual. Clear indication the measures are fake
If I’m not mistaken This administration did a state dinner for Former President of DRC. Mr Kabila.
Now you’re attending Etienne Tshisekedi funeral?
When one remembers KK’s Press Advisors compared with these Ba Kankuni..you just mourn to see how low the country has descended!! Felix upon being sworn in has visited all neighbouring countries he regards with respect! He never came here! After seeing a delegation that looked like going for a meeting but for a funeral,Am sure he (Felix) has even convinced himself for not treating us as priority despite our strategic position!!
Only Africa do you bury someone 2 years after the fact, so sad
So you tag along 4 Provincial Ministers and your Livestock and Fisheries Minister + Kaizer ++ for a one day funeral. What time did you have to discuss bilateral issues with your hosts who were obviously too busy with funeral arrangement and the re-burial. Its actually insulting to take a delegation to discuss bilateral issues when your hosts are in mourning. So you did not go in good faith.
Oh my God, what an explanation from umwaice kabova Amos Chanda. A huge delegation to a funeral that includes Livestock Minister Kampamba Chewe because Congo DRC presents a huge market for our livestock. Such an explanation clearly tells us the trip was not about mourning but about business opportunities. What a shame for these leaders of the so-called Christian and African nation called Zambia. They have messed Zambia to an extent where they cannot even think properly about what they do.
Just a few weeks ago the Egyptian President declined an official invitation from PF’s Lungu because he had domestic issues he had to take care of first in his country this is why most of us are saying this is the most pathetic government we have had so far and what’s sad is we their is probably a mentally challenged PF cadre still blaming Bloomberg, IMF , the opposition parties for Zambians problems
These corrupt scumbags!
Elizabeth her family and servants.Want hanging on a gallows.Peter Carlos Hinds.
Comments are closed.
Read more
Company
Trending
Categories
© Lusaka Times
Subscribe now to keep reading and get access to the full archive.
Type your email…
Subscribe
Continue reading

Title: DRC parl’t speaker grateful for Egypt's supportive stances - EgyptToday
BY
MENA
-
Sat, 08 Jun 2019 - 09:49 GMT
BY
MENA
Sat, 08 Jun 2019 - 09:49 GMT
DRC MPs elect woman speaker of parliament, Jeanine Mabunda
Comments
Leave a Comment
Be Social
© 2020 All rights reserved toEgypttoday
Designed and developed by

Title: Afreximbank President Visits DRC – THISDAYLIVE
The African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) is interested in participating in the syndicated facility for the construction of the bridge between Brazzaville and Kinshasa to link the two Congos, Bank President Prof. Benedict Oramah announced recently.
Oramah, who was briefing President Felix Tshisekedi of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), when he led an Afreximbank delegation on a state visit to the Congolese President, said the Bank’s other areas of interest in the country included the power and energy development project at the INGA 3 Dam, attracting foreign direct investment into the mining sector and attracting its Intra-African Trade Champions and foreign investors into the country for capacity building, partnership and financing.
He noted that the Bank had been providing ongoing support to the DRC, particularly in the areas of infrastructural development, such as roads and bridges, provision of a refinancing window to commercial banks through the Banque Centrale du Congo which allowed banks provide long term financing to support investments, and support for local content promotion for extractive industries to provide advisory services to develop local content policy and financing models. Oramah, who also briefed President Tshisekedi about the Bank’s products, services and facilities and expressed the Bank’s readiness to support the DRC’s development agenda, took the opportunity of the visit to commiserate with President Tshisekedi on the death of his father, Etienne Tshisekedi, a former Prime Minister of the DRC. Tshisekedi commended Prof. Oramah and Afreximbank for their invaluable support to the DRC’s economic expansion and expressed the country’s commitment to facilitating the execution of the Bank’s transactions.


Founded on January 22, 1995, THISDAY is published by THISDAY NEWSPAPERS LTD., 35 Creek Road Apapa, Lagos, Nigeria with offices in 36 states of Nigeria , the Federal Capital Territory and around the world. It is Nigeria’s most authoritative news media available on all platforms for the political, business, professional and diplomatic elite and broader middle classes while serving as the meeting point of new ideas, culture and technology for the aspirationals and millennials. The newspaper is a public trust dedicated to the pursuit of truth and reason covering a range of issues from breaking news to politics, business, the markets, the arts, sports and community to the crossroads of people and society.
You can email us at: hello@thisdaylive.com or visit ourcontact uspage.



Title: UN extends DRC sanctions as refugee flows increase | News | Al Jazeera
Resolution prohibits selling or supplying weapons to rebel groups, blocks travel of some militia leaders, politicians.
United Nations –With civilians fleeing a spate of inter-ethnic violence in easternDemocratic Republic of Congo(DRC), the United Nations Security Council on Wednesday extended its arms embargo, asset freeze and a travel ban on the country until July 2020.
The sanctions prohibit countries from selling or supplying weapons to rebel groups in the DRC, which has been wracked by conflict since the early 1990s and has seen a recent spike in violence in Ituri province.




A French-draftedresolution, which was passed unanimously at a brief meeting, requires governments to block the travel of designated militia leaders and politicians and to freeze their bank accounts and other assets.
In the document, the council said the DRC’s violence “continues to constitute a threat to international peace and security in the region”. As well as extending sanctions, members authorised UN experts to continue probing violations there until August 2020.
The resolution also urged the DRC government to “swiftly and fully investigate” the deaths of two UN investigators and the four Congolese nationals accompanying them, who werekilledin March 2017.
The UN researchers – Michael Sharp of the United States and Zaida Catalan of Sweden – were probing alleged atrocities during fighting in the central Kasai region between government forces and the local Kamuina Nsapu militia, which prosecutors blame for their deaths.
The DRC government should “bring those responsible to justice”, the document said.
As diplomats met in New York, the latest spate of violence in a decades-old conflict between militias connected to Lendu farmers and Hema herders continued to send civilians from eastern DRC spilling across the border into Uganda.
About 300 people cross the border every day, amounting to about 7,500 civilians so far this month, the UN refugee agency’s (UNHCR) spokesman Andrej Mahecic said on Tuesday. At least 160 people have been killed in the past two weeks.
“Recent arrivals speak of extreme brutality. Armed groups are said to be attacking villages, torching and looting houses, and killing men, women and children,” Mahecic said in a statement.
“Some refugees are arriving with significant belongings, fearing they will not be able to return home for some time. Others who have fled imminent danger have little more than the clothes on their backs.”
The gold-rich region has experienced extreme violence before, with some 60,000 people killed and 500,000 others displaced by fierce clashes between the Hema and Lendu between 1999 and 2003, according to the UN.




Some 4.5 million people have fled variousconflictsacross the vast central African nation. Parts of the country’s eastern region have experienced insecurity and armed conflict involving local and foreign forces since the early 1990s.
Ituri and North Kivu province, just to the south, are also trying to halt a majorepidemicof Ebola that has claimed more than 1,500 lives since it emerged last August. Both provinces are on DRC’s eastern border with Uganda.
In their latest report, UN experts raised some hopes of improved stability in DRC following the inauguration in January of Felix Tshisekedi as president, in the country’s first peaceful transition of power since it gained independence from Belgium in 1960.
According to the experts’ report, which was released earlier this month, a growing number of armed groups in DRC appeared willing to put down their guns and demobilise under the right conditions.
But the panel said numerous local and foreign armed groups continued to pose “serious security threats” in DRC, attacking civilians and soldiers, and targeting army camps and depots in order to seize weapons and ammunition.









Follow Al Jazeera English:

Title: Democratic Republic of the Congo: Food Assistance Fact Sheet - Updated June 21, 2019 - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWeb
DR Congo+ 2 more
SITUATION
• More than 13 million people in the DRC—representing approximately 23 percent of the country’s population—are estimated to be facing Crisis (IPC 3) or Emergency (IPC 4) levels of acute food insecurity, according to the Integrated Food Security Phase Classification (IPC). In addition, an estimated five million children in the DRC are acutely malnourished, the UN World Food Program (WFP) reports.
• Communities in eastern DRC and the greater Kasaï region are projected to face IPC 3 and IPC 4 levels of acute food insecurity through at least September 2019, the Famine Early Warning Systems Network (FEWS NET) reports.
• Refugees and Congolese returnees from elsewhere in the region, including more than 172,000 refugees from the Central African Republic (CAR) and nearly 500,000 Congolese nationals expelled from Angola, also remain in need of emergency food assistance.
• Inter-communal conflict in Ituri—a province affected by the ongoing EVD outbreak—displaced more than 300,000 people between early and mid-June, increasing humanitarian needs in the region, according to the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
RESPONSE
• USAID’s Office of Food for Peace (FFP) partners with WFP to provide emergency food assistance to internally displaced persons (IDPs), refugees, returnees, and vulnerable host communities in the DRC. With FFP support, WFP is also providing food assistance to EVDaffected communities. In addition, FFP partners with the UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and WFP to provide emergency nutritional support to children in eastern and central DRC.
• FFP collaborates with USAID’s Office of U.S. Foreign Disaster Assistance to jointly support several non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to provide multi-sectoral humanitarian assistance to vulnerable people in eastern DRC.
• Separately, FFP supports NGOs in the greater Kasaï region to provide life-saving food assistance to conflict-affected IDPs, returnees, and host communities. Additionally, FFP works with ACTED to provide emergency food assistance to refugees from CAR sheltering in northwestern DRC.
• FFP also partners with Catholic Relief Services, Food for the Hungry, and Mercy Corps to implement multi-year food assistance and resilience activities that benefit vulnerable communities in KasaïOriental, South Kivu, and Tanganyika provinces.
DR Congo
DR Congo
DR Congo
DR Congo
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Ebola hits 2,000 cases as vaccine OK'd in some pregnant, lactating women | CIDRAP
World Bank, Vincent Tremeau / Flickr cc
Today the Ebola case count in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) will likely surpass 2,000 cases, a new milestone ushered in by heavy transmission in May, by a good measure the most active month in this outbreak.
Over the weekend, the ministry of health in the DRC recorded 20 new cases of the virus, and reports on Twitter suggest the ministry will announce 14 more cases today. If confirmed, the cases will raise the outbreak total to 2,008 cases.
The cases over the weekend originated in Mabalako, Katwa, Beni, Butembo, and Mangurujipa, all villages and cities in North Kivu province. Sixteen deaths were also recorded over the weekend, bringing the fatality total to 1,339 as of yesterday.
This outbreak, in its 11th month, is the world's second largest after West Africa's 2014-2016 Ebola outbreak, which involved more than 28,600 cases and more than 11,300 deaths.
The DRC topped 1,000 cases on Mar 24—8 months into the outbreak. It added its second 1,000 cases in only 71 days, or just a little over 2 months later, data that demonstrate how the outbreak has accelerated.
Yesterday the ministry of health confirmed that an ethics committee at the School of Public Health at the University of Kinshasa had approved an amendment to the vaccination protocol dictating the use of Merck's rVSV-ZEBOV vaccine.
The amendment will allow clinicians to offer the vaccine to pregnant women past their first trimester of pregnancy and to lactating women, if they are identified as case contacts. The committee maintains that only children over the age of 6 should be vaccinated.
The DRC health ministry first approved use of the vaccine in pregnant and lactating women on Feb 20. Yesterday's step clarifies the target population.
According to the ministry of health, from Nov 26, 2018, to May 26, 2019, 319 pregnant women and 603 lactating women have registered as contacts and could not be vaccinated.
As of yesterday, 129,001 people had been vaccinated with Merck's unlicensed vaccine. Among the recipients are 35,605 high-risk contacts, 63,421 contacts of contacts, and 29,975 front-line providers.
See also:
Jun 1 DRCreport
Jun 2 DRCreport
US CDC West African Ebola outbreaksummary
Feb 20 CIDRAP News story "Ebola vaccine to be given to pregnant, lactating women"
Also, sequencing confirmed N1 and identified two HA mutations, one of which could affect vaccine development.
The findings come on the cusp of the Northern Hemisphere flu and respiratory syncytial virus seasons and rising US COVID-19 cases.
A study suggesting thatnirmatrelvir/ritonavir and molnupiravir don't prevent severe COVID-19 outcomes or long COVID is also being called into question.
Before March 2024, H5N1 had not been detected in 1,337 wastewater samples analyzed by the team.
The new findings come from the ongoing RECOVER trial and build on results seen in a 2023 trial.
While sequencing shows similarity to the virus in cattle, the epi investigation might not be able to pinpoint a source.
Wastewater levels are still high, but some indicators such as hospitalizations trended downward.
The case follows two local cases reported in 2023, one in Pasadena and the other in Long Beach.
The CDC received reports of 22 more imported cases over the past week, raising the total to 74 from 5 states.
Tests are under way on samples from five contacts who reported symptoms.
Help make CIDRAP's vital work possible
CIDRAP - Center for Infectious Disease Research & PolicyResearch and Innovation Office, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN
Email us
© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights Reserved.The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer
Research and Innovation Office|Contact U of M|Privacy Policy
Newsletter subscribe

Title: 
	Dispute resolution panel to be set up for solar, wind projects implemented by SECI, NTPC  - The Hindu BusinessLine

+ 1,359.51
+ 375.15
+ 110.00
+ 397.00
-302.00
+ 1,359.51
+ 375.15
+ 375.15
+ 110.00
+ 110.00
+ 397.00
Get businessline apps on
Connect with us
TO ENJOY ADDITIONAL BENEFITS
Connect With Us
Get BusinessLine apps on
ByPTI
Comments
READ LATER
Solar and wind power industries have been demanding setting up such a dispute resolution mechanism
The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) has decided to set up a three-member dispute resolution committee (DRC) to look into disputes beyond contractual agreements between solar or wind power developers and Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) or state-run power giant NTPC.
This mechanism will cover all those projects that would be implemented through or by SECI and NTPC.
Solar and wind power industries have been demanding such a dispute resolution mechanism.
“It is felt that there is need to erect a transparent, unbiased dispute resolution mechanism, consisting of an independent, transparent and unbiased DRC), for resolving the unforeseen disputes that may arise in implementation of contractual agreements and also for dealing with issues which are beyond the scope of contractual agreements between solar power developers/ wind power developers and SECI / NTPC,” an MNRE office order said.
According to the order, a three-member DRC will be set up with the approval of the new and renewable energy minister, consisting of eminent persons of impeccable integrity. The upper age for the DRC members shall be 70 years, and its members shall be chosen from the eminent persons located in Delhi-NCR to avoid expenditure on air travel and accommodation.
The selection of the DRC members would be such that there is no conflict of interest involved. The mechanism of DRC will be applicable for all solar or wind schemes, programmes and projects being implemented through or by SECI and NTPC.
The DRC will consider cases including appeal against decisions given by SECI on extension of time requests based on terms of contract and all requests of extension of time not covered under the terms of contract.
It will examine all such cases referred to it, including the cases where the developer is not satisfied with the decision of SECI or NTPC and it decides to appeal after paying the required fee. The order said the recommendations of the DRC, along with the MNRE’s observations, will be placed before the new and renewable energy minister for final decision.
To arrive at any decision, the Committee will be free to interact with the relevant parties of the case and shall record their views. No lawyer shall be permitted to present the case before the DRC, it added.
Comments
BACK TO TOP
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by ourcommunity guidelinesfor posting your comments.
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of TheHindu Businessline and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.
Terms & conditions|Institutional Subscriber

Title: Uganda gets go-ahead to administer experimental Ebola treatments
The JSE all share was little changed at 83,829 points
The government needs to stay out of the economy and make it as free as possible, this is the best way to create employment
The unit will focus on resolving policy disagreements within the government
Public works minister Dean Macpherson says previous ministers and deputies have left properties in an awful condition
The helium module is being started and will be brought down to temperature to recommence filling
Bank governor Lesetja Kganyago says there are still risks, so central banks are moving carefully
Business opportunities available in Saudi Arabia is the focus of this edition of Business Day Spotlight
Israeli defence minister says its military will continue with military action against Islamist group
This action-packed edition of Inside Sport includes football, school sport, Springbok tour and the Cape Town marathon
Dias is now the new executive chef for the jazz club and Hallmark House Hotel
Kampala — Health workers have got the all-clear to use three experimental Ebola treatments in Uganda, a week after the deadly disease spread over the border from Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), authorities said on Tuesday.Two people who had travelled from DRC died in Uganda last week, the World Health Organisation (WHO) said. A three-year-old boy who was sent back to DRC after testing positive for the disease, died at the weekend, DRC's health ministry said...
Kampala — Health workers have got the all-clear to use three experimental Ebola treatments in Uganda, a week after the deadly disease spread over the border from Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), authorities said on Tuesday.
Two people who had travelled from DRC died in Uganda last week, the World Health Organisation (WHO) said. A three-year-old boy who was sent back to DRC after testing positive for the disease, died at the weekend, DRC's health ministry said...
Support BusinessLIVE’s award-winning journalism forR129per month(digital access only).
There’s never been a more important time to support independent journalism in SA. Our subscription packages now offer anad-free experiencefor readers.
Cancel anytime.
Questions? Emailhelpdesk@businesslive.co.zaor call0860 52 52 00. Got a subscription voucher?Redeem it now.
Would you like to comment on this article?Sign up (it's quick and free) or sign in now.
Please read ourComment Policybefore commenting.
Published by Arena Holdings and distributed with the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of every month except December and January.
© 2024 Arena Holdings. All rights reserved.
Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy.

Title: Zambia : Government to sign an MOU for Maize Export to DRC


To subscribe, simply enter your email address on our website or click the subscribe button below. Don't worry, we respect your privacy and won't spam your inbox. Your information is safe with us.
Share

Government says it is capable of supplying 1.3 million metric tonnes of maize to the Democratic republic of Congo DRC to meet maize deficit in that country. Acting Minister of Commerce, Trade and Industry Moses Mawere says government has begun facilitating for trade between the two countries.
Mr. Mawere says the two countries are set to sign a Memorandum of understanding – MOU which will facilitate for trade of agriculture products like maize and mealie meal. He says the draft document of the MOU will be ready and shared with the DRC counterparts by the tenth July this year.
Mr. Mawere was speaking in Ndola when he met with Democratic Republic of Congo – DRC Katanga Province governor of Haut Jacques Katwe in Ndola this afternoon.
And Mr. Katwe says the DRC is depending on Zambia to help with providing it with food security through the export of maize and mealie meal. He says the formulation of the MOU will stop illegal vices in the export of maize such as smuggling and fraud.
Meanwhile, Ministry of Agriculture Permanent Secretary Songowayo Zyambo says the country has enough maize stock for export and Local consumption. He says the country is exploring means of investing in the maize production in the Northern part of Zambia to meet the growing demand of the product.
And Copperbelt Minister Japhen Mwakalombe has said that there is need to formalise trade between Zambia and Congo DRC. Mr. Mwakalombe was speaking when DRC Katanga province Governor Jacques Katwe and his delegation called on him at his office, adding that currently there is a lot of smuggling going on between the two countries.
Mr. Mwakalombe called on the Katanga Governor to engage with his office so as to strengthen trade ties between Zambia and Congo DRC.
And Mr. Katwe says the province has come up with a policy aimed at promoting Agriculture in Katanga and the country as a whole.
He says while it imports mealie meal from Zambia there is need to promote agriculture in order to increase production of maize and other Agriculture produce.
This will always result in corruption coz an open opportunity will be restricted to a few individuals mainly party cadres with access to FRA maize – hence from Malawi maize gate to Congo maize gate!! Why don’t we allow ordinary farmers export their maize as the FRA focusses on managing strategic reserves? Is this the time to think about investing in Maize production in north,something we should have done many years ago for CB and NW Provinces to capture even the Angolan market!These are some of the businesses govt can facilitate cooperatives,ZNS and youths to get involved in!
Let’s feed our brothers and sisters in kazungula and other areas before we think of exporting any grain.
@ZambiaisoursWhoever you’re, please feel sorry for yourself because it appears you got issues to deal with which are slowly kill1ng you. Whats corrupt in this arrangement if i may ask? You’re the same chaps who are contradicting yourselves day ans night. When Zambia starts to export goods or products to earn forex, you complain, when Zambia only imports and deplets its forex, again you complain, so whats your agenda? And you expect we the Zambians can vote for directionless and power hungry hyenas and wild dogs like your HH and UPND? You will go.into coma, in 2021 because you have no clue of what our roadmap as PF is.
@Maliso you should have stayed in school longer to polish your grammar and understanding of the English language, now you are a poor pf cadre misunderstand points and failing to express yourself here.@Zambiasours is saying ordinary Zambian businessmen and farmers should be allowed to export maize. Stop being naive.
Plant Winter maize for export. Feed Zambia from rain maize.Yes allow ZNS to gear up on Winter Maize Projects across the country. Let winter maize be a serious Government Business Initiative for exports.Zambia will surely regret this golden opportunity of an easy market it has messed up with for many years in as far as the DRC is concerned when that sleeping giant wakes up from it’s slumber agriculturally.
Why do you export when you don’t have enough?Bone heads.
These are thieves wanting to steal from FRA reserve depots …they will not rest till everything disappears!!
This is chipante pante sure exporting maize with the current hunger situation in the country
Zambia produces more maize than it needs. In fact a lot of maize go to waste each year. The trouble I have with the pronouncement is the consistency in implementation. We must allow commercial and emerging farmers to export so that they can expand their production. And one needs to consider the impact on logistics. Exporting 1.3 m MT of maize is no joke. It needs more trucks than are currently involved in copper and cobalt exports. So good opportunity for private sector to get involved. Let’s wait and see how this is rolls out.
which maize?
For our own information the maize from here doesn’t go beyond Katanga province.
Just to talk about maize we 2 Ministers and 1 PS, obviously Nundwe was there too. The next thing we’ll see Ministers competing to supply the maize just like they done in the Saudi goats deal. I don’t know where Sata got these people. We are in trouble
In Zambia we are jokers and do not take issues with the seriousness they deserve. The Congo market is an opportunity for Country to earn more forex and improve our economical growth. But as usual politics come into play. No policy direction but simply talking. Remember we are not the only ones on planet earth who can grow maize. Another Country will seize the opportunity and we shall remain where we are, talking and shouting, chasing smugglers. There was talk of growing winter maize in the mildest of the drought that has hit some parts of this Country but nothing is being done at all, yet we have rivers flowing all year round. Commercial farmers can grow winter maize, we did it during the time of our late president levy Mwanawasa(M.H.S.R.I.P). Zambia wake up from slumber.
They want Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) to do things for Zambia.
Are they aware that in southern province a bucket of maize is costing about k60 currently…….our brothers there have run out of reserves help our own b4 we go to cross boarders
SP once a maizebelt, a food basket for this beloved country.It’s incredible what climate change can do to an area 🙁 .
Annex Katanga….it belongs to Zambia
i wonder why we are not feeding Malawi , Congo & Zimbabwe these three countries are easy markets but as usual the government is still sleeping these guys can help our falling reserves , government could directly fund farmers ( low intrest loans ) because there is readily easy available market
when other countries would even be spending money on t£rrorists just to make sure that you don’t ever recover as country so that they can continue selling you their products but no our government can’t see this cash cow right before our eyes .The PF government would rather buy a private jet than properly fund the agriculture sector we should be providing education & giving interest free loans to farmers so they can mechanize their farming then open maize exports to Congo and other countries in need .
I can not support the export maize. Why? Because we will have exported the much needed jobs for the locals. Instead I would encourage export of processed maize foodstuffs eg. Mealie meal, starch, etc. Value addition.
Comments are closed.
Read more
Company
Trending
Categories
© Lusaka Times
Subscribe now to keep reading and get access to the full archive.
Type your email…
Subscribe
Continue reading

Title: DRC Ebola deaths top 1,500; more cases in Ituri province capital | CIDRAP
Simon Davis, DFID / Flickr cc
The number of new Ebola cases reported daily by the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) continued its steady rise over the past 3 days, with 35 new cases reported, 2 of them in Bunia, the capital of Ituri province, which is home to about 366,000 people.
The resurgence of cases in Bunia—the second-largest city in the eastern DRC—follows the detection of an imported case. Over the weekend, DRC health minister Oly Ilunga Kalenga, MD, visited the city to meet with provincial officials to assess the status of the response in the area, according the DRC health ministry's update yesterday.
Last week, the health ministry reported a case in Bunia, involving a contact of an earlier case in Rwampara health zone who had refused follow-up and vaccination. In March, the city reported an infection in a 6-month-old baby. The recent cases bring the total in the city to four.
The city has been preparing for the arrival of more cases for several months and put mechanisms in place quickly, the health ministry said. Kalenga said, "Putting public health measures in place is one thing, but it is mainly the community that has to take ownership, accept protective measures, and also vaccination, a way to break the chain of transmission."
Bunia has only one Ebola transit center, where people with suspected Ebola infections stay to await their test results. Efforts are under way to turn Bunia's transit center into an Ebola treatment center, and health officials are drawing up plans to strengthen Ituri province's health system.
The 35 new cases are from nine different areas, including Beni (9), Lubero (8), Mabalako (7), and Mandima (5), and Bunia (2). The following locations each reported 1 new case: Mangurujipa, Rwampara, Kalunguta, and Katwa.
The latest infections lift the outbreak total to 2,239 cases, and today's World Health Organization (WHO) online Ebola dashboard suggests that the ministry will report 8 more cases today, which would boost the overall number to 2,247.
In its daily update yesterday, the health ministry reported 3 more Ebola infections in health workers, all from Lubero. Two had been vaccinated, but the report didn't say how long ago. The illnesses bring the number of healthcare workers infected in the outbreak to 122, of which 39 were fatal.
As of yesterday, health officials were still investigating 276 suspected cases.
Regarding deaths, 27 more people in the DRC died from Ebola, lifting the fatality count past 1,500 to 1,506. Of the latest deaths, 12 occurred in the community—which raises the risk of transmission—and 15 occurred in Ebola treatment centers.
See also:
Jun 21 DRCreport
Jun 22 DRCreport
Jun 23 DRCreport
WHO online Eboladashboard
Also, sequencing confirmed N1 and identified two HA mutations, one of which could affect vaccine development.
The findings come on the cusp of the Northern Hemisphere flu and respiratory syncytial virus seasons and rising US COVID-19 cases.
A study suggesting thatnirmatrelvir/ritonavir and molnupiravir don't prevent severe COVID-19 outcomes or long COVID is also being called into question.
Before March 2024, H5N1 had not been detected in 1,337 wastewater samples analyzed by the team.
The new findings come from the ongoing RECOVER trial and build on results seen in a 2023 trial.
While sequencing shows similarity to the virus in cattle, the epi investigation might not be able to pinpoint a source.
Wastewater levels are still high, but some indicators such as hospitalizations trended downward.
Wastewater levels are still high, but like other markers are showing a downward trend.
The CDC received reports of 22 more imported cases over the past week, raising the total to 74 from 5 states.
Tests are under way on samples from five contacts who reported symptoms.
Help make CIDRAP's vital work possible
CIDRAP - Center for Infectious Disease Research & PolicyResearch and Innovation Office, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN
Email us
© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights Reserved.The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer
Research and Innovation Office|Contact U of M|Privacy Policy
Newsletter subscribe

Title: The EastAfrican
Speaker Madobe who himself hails from the SWS mediated between the two blocs and softened the rigidity held by the sides.
Whichever role Gen Kainerugaba takes could determine how or when Museveni leaves power.
Yoweri Museveni is the flag bearer in all elections in which the party participates until he decides not to do so.
A major threat to President’s re-election is unease in the country’s key voting bloc.
Content moderators sued Meta and two local contractors, saying they lost their jobs for organising a union.
So far, 2.30 million people in West and Central Africa have been affected by severe flooding in 2024.
Killer group dress like civilians, mingle with them and infiltrate them after committing......
Bus operators are allowed 50 litres of fuel a day, not enough for those taking passengers from Bujumbura to the countryside
Juba is also struggling with a shortage of dollars as a result of declining revenues from oil......
President Samia Suluhu has not chosen to heed the calls coming her way from all walks of life for her to do something to show that she cares.
President William Ruto's comments on the ongoing saga suggested that he had washed his hands of......
The Ugandan short film was among eight short films on sexual and reproductive health rights and justice shown at International University of East Africa.
Nadia will receive a £10,000 ($13,221) prize, in addition to having her work featured in the......
Some 90 countries, most in Africa, Central- and Southeast Asia, are experiencing the degradation of one or more freshwater ecosystems.
With many consumers becoming more cautious, many are opting to buy fruits and vegetables from......
He faced immense personal tragedy, losing his 15-month-old son Kobe, which has deeply affected him.
Cheptegei is the third prominent sportswoman to be killed in Kenya since October 2021....
Remittances might lack the structure and formality of traditional philanthropy, but they play a central role in keeping people out of poverty and advancing community prosperity.
After suffering from recurrent large-scale famines, Ethiopia has become net exporter of wheat......

Title: Nation - Breaking News, Kenya, Africa, Politics, Business, Sports | HOME | Nation
Hello
Your subscription is almost coming to an end. Don’t miss out on the great content on Nation.Africa
Ready to continue your informative journey with us?
Hello
Your premium access has ended, but the best of Nation.Africa is still within reach. Renew now to unlock exclusive stories and in-depth features.
Reclaim your full access. Click below to renew.
Subscribe fora month to get full access
President Ruto arrives in the Caribbean nation to assess mission sanctioned by the United Nations.
Whichever role Muhoozi takes could determine how or when Museveni leaves power.
National Assembly Majority Ichung’wah, however, insists he is unware of any plans to oust Gachagua.
People said I wouldn’t be elected because I wasn’t married; that I should do a quick wedding. I said 'No'; I kept my promise.
Sakaja called out Gachagua for engaging in ethnic political mobilisation.
Mr Gachagua’s leadership style criticised as abrasive and heavy-handed.
According to family members, Kalanda wanted to be buried three days after his demise.
Sponsored by Mastercard
Sponsored by Gatsby Africa
Sponsored by Better Collective
Sponsored by Mozzart Bet
The treatment of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) is individualized based on individual symptoms and concerns, what works for one patient might not work for the other.
Are government securities truly risk free? Nearly Sh800 billion of Kenya’s Sh5.5 trillion government domestic debt is held by individual investors.
Hon. Albert Taiti, Outgoing President of the Clinical Officers Association of Kenya and County Executive Committee Member of Health, Laikipia County shares his legacy
While more research is required, the EAC directed partner states to disseminate correct information to stakeholders.
Donald Trump is the most nativist and toxic politician in modern America.
It was declared unconstitutional on the grounds that it violated the principle of separation of powers.
Business partnerships reveal link between Adani Group and the President William Ruto-championed UHC.
Education research is pivotal in finding answers and providing working models to help societies tackle evolving challenges.
We should evaluate dispassionately the contributions to our educational systems of people like Carey Francis, Geoffrey Griffin and Damien Grimes.
Dwayne Fields has just become the UK’s first black Chief Scout.
Dubois had Joshua sprawled on the canvas in the opening round.
Nation Media Group © 2024