Title: As DRC Ebola cases hit 312, officials see some positive signs | CIDRAP
At a press conference in Beni yesterday, from left, DRC Health Minister Kalenga, WHO Director-General Tedros, and UN peacekeeping head Lacroix., MONUSCO, Michael Ali / Flickr cc
Four more Ebola cases were reported today in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) outbreak, one from a newly affected health zone, as a high-level group from the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United Nations (UN) visiting the region said new steps are having an impact on the response.
Underscoring ongoing deep concerns about security problems in the area, the DRC's health ministry said Mai Mai rebels in a village between Beni and Butembo—the outbreak's hot spots— abducted four members of the Ebola response. The responders were later found by police to be safe, according to the health ministry's daily update yesterday.
Following a call to emergency services by the family of a person who died in the community, the responders, who included three civil protection agents and an epidemiologist, were at the home of a recently deceased patient to decontaminate the house and remove the body to prepare it for burial. After rebels abducted the responders, security coordinators sent an alert to police, who found the group safe and sound.
Security problems related to armed rebel groups and pockets of community resistance have led to several setbacks in the response to the outbreak, which is just 7 cases from becoming the DRC's largest Ebola outbreak ever. Given tough challenges containing the outbreak, health officials are in the DRC this week to hear from local officials and groups and see what more can be done.
Yesterday in Beni, the DRC's Health MinisterOly Ilunga Kalenga, MD;North Kivu province's governor; UN Undersecretary General for Peacekeeping Jean-Pierre Lacroix; and WHO Director Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, PhD, were among a group who visited the emergency operations center and met with local security officials at the local town hall.
In a statement from the WHO and UN today, the groups said new measures to overcome response challenges are having a positive impact, with a decline in the rate of new cases over the past 2 weeks, though the outbreak is still dangerous and unpredictable.
MONUSCO, the UN's peacekeeping mission in the DRC, has recently taken an active approach toward armed groups operating in North Kivu, which has resulted in a recent calm period in and around Beni, though some attacks continue in surrounding villages. Since the start of the outbreak, MONUSCO has provided logistical support, office facilities, transportation, communication, and security.
Decades of conflict in North Kivu have led to misinformation and mistrust that had contributed to reluctance among some residents to allow Ebola teams to vaccinate, trace contacts, and perform safe burials.
The groups said that, under the leadership of the DRC's health ministry, the WHO and its partners have made greater use of community surveillance, in which community members are trained to do contact tracing in areas that are difficult for outsiders to access.
According to the statement, WHO and UN officials also met with DRC Prime Minister Bruno Tshibala to share their observations and recommendations.
As the team wrapped up its visit today, Lacroix on Twitter today praised the work of colleagues in the DRC and partner groups. But he also said that making the outbreak area safer requires a team effort. "The message delivered today is that improving security in North Kivu is everyone's responsibility: MONUSCO and the DRC armed forces. Communities must also be engaged," he said.
Lacroix said partnerships and sustained long-term efforts will defeat the armed groups.
The DRC today reported 4 new cases, raising the outbreak total to 312, with the number of deaths remaining at 191. One of the new cases is in Beni, two are in Kalunguta health zone, which is in an insecure area, and 1 is in Mutwanga health zone, the first in that area.
The DRC said Mutwanga health zone is near Beni and the patient who is sick with Ebola there is a known contact of a person from Beni who fled to Mutwanga after refusing vaccination and not completing follow-up monitoring. The man, considered a high-risk contact, has agreed to be transferred to an Ebola treatment center in Beni.
As of today, 40 suspected cases are still under investigation, the DRC health ministry said.
Yesterday, the DRC health ministry in its daily update fleshed out information about 3 new cases reported by the WHO yesterday: 2 were in Beni and 1 in Vuhovi, a recently affected health zone located between Beni and Butembo.
See also:
Nov 8 WHO/UN joint visitstatement
Jean-Pierre LacroixTwitter account
Nov 8 DRCupdate
Nov 7 DRCupdate
Also, sequencing confirmed N1 and identified two HA mutations, one of which could affect vaccine development.
The findings come on the cusp of the Northern Hemisphere flu and respiratory syncytial virus seasons and rising US COVID-19 cases.
A study suggesting thatnirmatrelvir/ritonavir and molnupiravir don't prevent severe COVID-19 outcomes or long COVID is also being called into question.
Before March 2024, H5N1 had not been detected in 1,337 wastewater samples analyzed by the team.
The new findings come from the ongoing RECOVER trial and build on results seen in a 2023 trial.
While sequencing shows similarity to the virus in cattle, the epi investigation might not be able to pinpoint a source.
Wastewater levels are still high, but some indicators such as hospitalizations trended downward.
Wastewater levels are still high, but like other markers are showing a downward trend.
The CDC received reports of 22 more imported cases over the past week, raising the total to 74 from 5 states.
Tests are under way on samples from five contacts who reported symptoms.
Help make CIDRAP's vital work possible
CIDRAP - Center for Infectious Disease Research & PolicyResearch and Innovation Office, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN
Email us
© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights Reserved.The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer
Research and Innovation Office|Contact U of M|Privacy Policy
Newsletter subscribe

Title: Turkana fishermen lose DRC market
Simply register at no cost.
Questions or problems? Email[email protected]or call0711 046 000.
Fishmongers in Lake Turkana are counting losses following the pullout of some buyers from the DRC. Nanam Fish Company director Emmanuel Ekal said traders have not transported fish for sale to DRC in four months. “We depend on fish for our daily income. Since the ebola outbreak in the DRC, we haven’t seen buyers coming to Lake Turkana to buy our fish. Before the ebola outbreak, there would be a snarlup of trucks along Kalokol awaiting fish for export,” he said.
“Turkana county and the national government should find a better way of helping fishmongers in Lake Turkana by locating a market place for them. We have a lot of fish in our stores, but getting the market is a problem because we only relay on the DRC for export.”
Ekal said the price of fish has declined from Sh400 to Sh100. The DRC government, through WHO confirmed the outbreak of ebola disease on Tuesday that has killed 17 people in five weeks.
Lucy Akuwom, a fish dealer in Kalokolo, said she solely depends on the sale of fish to feed and educate her children. She has urged the county government to look for alternative markets. Peter Aleper said the price of fish has gone down as the demand has depreciated.
“DRC is our main external market for fish. The outbreak of ebola has halted our business and scared fishmongers from coming to Lake Turkana as they are restricted to contain ebola,” he said. Turkan deputy governor Peter Lotethiro raised concerns over the outbreak of ebola in the DRC.
See also:
Advertise with us: Call 0711 046 000·[email protected]


Title: Uganda Begins Vaccinating HCWs For Ebola Amid Fears Of Spread From DRC; Experts Call For Action From U.S. | KFF
The independent source for health policy research, polling, and news.
The independent source for health policy research, polling, and news.
Nov 05, 2018
CIDRAP News: DRC Ebola total grows by 2, health experts push for high-level support“The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) [Friday] reported two new Ebola cases as Uganda announced plans to vaccinate health workers. In another development, two global health expertssaidurgent high-level support is needed to update the outbreak battle plan and quick action is needed to shore up U.S. leadership…” (Schnirring, 11/2).
Reuters: Uganda begins Ebola vaccinations amid Congo transmission fears“Uganda says it will start to vaccinate some of its health workers against Ebola on Monday, amid fears that the viral hemorrhagic fever could spread from Democratic Republic of Congo which is battling an outbreak…” (Biryabarema, 11/2).
VOA News: Uganda to Deploy Ebola Vaccine to Health Workers on DRC Border“…Uganda has no confirmed cases of Ebola, but as the threat worsens in the DRC, the preventive measure is seen as necessary because of heavy border traffic. More than 20,000 people cross from the DRC into Uganda and back every week, the ministry says…” (Athumani, 11/2).
The KFF Daily Global Health Policy Report summarized news and information on global health policy from hundreds of sources, from May 2009 through December 2020. All summaries are archived and available viasearch.
KFF Headquarters: 185 Berry St., Suite 2000, San Francisco, CA 94107 | Phone 650-854-9400Washington Offices and Barbara Jordan Conference Center: 1330 G Street, NW, Washington, DC 20005 | Phone 202-347-5270
www.kff.org | Email Alerts: kff.org/email | facebook.com/KFF | twitter.com/kff
The independent source for health policy research, polling, and news,KFF is a nonprofit organization based in San Francisco, California.

Title: Ebola total reaches 300 as WHO, UN leaders travel to DRC | CIDRAP
UN peacekeeping official Jean-Pierre Lacroix visiting the DRC in June 2017.,  MONUSCO/Biliaminou Alao/Flickr cc
Over the weekend and today, 13 more cases and 5 more deaths from Ebola were reported in the Democratic Republic of the Congo's (DRC) 3-month long outbreak of the virus in North Kivu and Ituri provinces.
All but one of the cases are from Butembo and Beni, the current virus hotspots. Two of the new cases, a young mother and her 2-week old child, were diagnosed in Beni and later transferred to an Ebola treatment center in Mabalako at the family's request. Another patient is from Kalunguta.
The totals for the outbreak now stand at 300 cases (265 confirmed, 35 probable), including 186 deaths. In addition, 41 suspected cases are still under investigation.
The outbreak, the country's tenth, is its third largest.  It began in Mabalako at the beginning of August, just weeks after the DRC declared an end to another Ebola outbreak on the Western side of the country. That outbreak was brought to a swift end once Merck's experimental vaccine was put to use in a ring vaccination program that targeted case contacts and contacts of contacts.
The current outbreak has been marked by fits of virus activity and violence in the outbreak region, which has hampered response and vaccination efforts.
Today leaders from the World Health Organization (WHO) and United Nations (UN) arrived in DRC to check in with outbreak response efforts.
Peter Salama, MD, the WHO's director-general of emergency preparedness and response, said on Twitter that he would be arriving in DRC today with WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, PhD, and Jean-Pierre Lacroix, the under-secretary-general for the UN Peacekeeping forces.
"Looking forward to seeing our teams again and hearing what other support they need for the #Ebola response. So proud of their relentless hard work under the toughest conditions," Salama tweeted.
Last week, the United Nations ordered all armed rebel forces in the DRC to allow health workers and officials access in the outbreak zone, which has been the site of violent skirmishes among dozens of political groups, many of whom oppose outbreak response efforts.
Ainebyoona Emmanuel, the senior public realigns officer for the Ugandan Ministry of Health said on Twitter Uganda has officially approved the use of the vaccine for healthcare workers, a move hinted at last week.
He said health workers who will be doing the immunizing are undergoing retraining today and tomorrow and the first injections will be administered on Nov 7.
Though there has so far been no spillover of cases in Uganda, there have been several scares, and the nation is preparing for the worst. North Kivu and Ituri provinces border Uganda, and more than 1 million refugees live in the communities that straddle the border.
In the DRC as of today, a total of 26,463 people in the DRC have been vaccinated against the virus, including 14,033 in Beni, 4,436 in Mabalako, 2,152 in Katwa, 1,663 in Mandima, and 1,435 in Butembo.
See also:
Nov 3 DRCupdate
Nov 4 DRCupdate
Nov 5 DRCupdate
Peter Salama Twitteraccount
Ainebyoona Emmanuel Twitteraccount
Also, sequencing confirmed N1 and identified two HA mutations, one of which could affect vaccine development.
The findings come on the cusp of the Northern Hemisphere flu and respiratory syncytial virus seasons and rising US COVID-19 cases.
A study suggesting thatnirmatrelvir/ritonavir and molnupiravir don't prevent severe COVID-19 outcomes or long COVID is also being called into question.
Before March 2024, H5N1 had not been detected in 1,337 wastewater samples analyzed by the team.
The new findings come from the ongoing RECOVER trial and build on results seen in a 2023 trial.
While sequencing shows similarity to the virus in cattle, the epi investigation might not be able to pinpoint a source.
Wastewater levels are still high, but some indicators such as hospitalizations trended downward.
Wastewater levels are still high, but like other markers are showing a downward trend.
The CDC received reports of 22 more imported cases over the past week, raising the total to 74 from 5 states.
Tests are under way on samples from five contacts who reported symptoms.
Help make CIDRAP's vital work possible
CIDRAP - Center for Infectious Disease Research & PolicyResearch and Innovation Office, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN
Email us
© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights Reserved.The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer
Research and Innovation Office|Contact U of M|Privacy Policy
Newsletter subscribe

Title: DRC reports 21 more cases of Ebola amid more violence in Beni | CIDRAP
MONUSCO fighter at the DRC's  Kanyabayonga base in 2014., UN Photo/Sylvain Liechti/ Flickr cc
The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) faced another setback in its fight to contain an Ebola outbreak last Friday night when a MONUSCO base in the Boikene district of Beni was attacked by an armed group.
Over the weekend and through today, the DRC recorded 21 more cases of Ebola, for a total of 373 cases, including 216 deaths. Seventy-two cases are suspected and under investigation.
The World Health Organization (WHO) evacuated 16 people after their residence was hit by a shell that did not explode, and Ebola surveillance and vaccination efforts were stalled in Beni for at least 24 hours.
According to the DRC's health ministry, the clash lasted several hours and took place a few meters away from the Ebola emergency operations center and hotels housing several response teams.
"Vaccination was suspended and the operations centre was closed, but teams still went out into the communities to follow up on some alerts of potential cases, to meet contacts and ensure they are still well, and to bring sick people to treatment centres. The treatment centers, which are run by partners, remained operational," the WHO said.
Beni has been the epicenter of the current Ebola outbreak in North Kivu and Ituri provinces, which has been going on for more than 4 months and has become the DRC's largest Ebola outbreak to date. The outbreak area encompasses the DRC's most unsettled region, home to more than 1 million refugees and dozens of militia.
The DRC's ministry of health reassured people over the weekend and today that despite the evacuation, the efforts to end the outbreak in North Kivu are still ongoing.
"The field activities in Beni did not take place normally at the beginning of the day on Saturday 17 November. After assessing the security situation, all field activities, except vaccination, were able to resume idling on Saturday afternoon," the DRC's health ministry said yesterday.
Today, Ndjoloko Tambwe Bathe, MD, the DRC's coordinator of response efforts, gave a press briefing in Beni. He said there are still more than 900 health workers in the city, including 191 WHO workers and consultants.
The DRC said full vaccination had resumed yesterday, and as of today, a total of 32,108 people had been vaccinated with Merck's unlicensed Ebola vaccine, including 15,962 in Beni.
Bathe also addressed the recent cases in Kalunguta, a health district in one of the DRC's security red zones. He explained that Ebola was spread to the area by a confirmed case-patient from Beni who escaped surveillance in that city. Bathe said the community has been accommodating to health workers, and more than 800 people have been vaccinated.
At least 2 of the 21 new cases recorded this weekend were in Kalunguta.
In updates over the weekend, the DRC's health ministry efforts to clean up the Ebola case database were continuing.
See also:
Nov 17 DRCupdate
Nov 18 DRCupdate
Nov 19 DRCupdate
Nov 17 WHOstatement
Also, sequencing confirmed N1 and identified two HA mutations, one of which could affect vaccine development.
The findings come on the cusp of the Northern Hemisphere flu and respiratory syncytial virus seasons and rising US COVID-19 cases.
A study suggesting thatnirmatrelvir/ritonavir and molnupiravir don't prevent severe COVID-19 outcomes or long COVID is also being called into question.
Before March 2024, H5N1 had not been detected in 1,337 wastewater samples analyzed by the team.
The new findings come from the ongoing RECOVER trial and build on results seen in a 2023 trial.
While sequencing shows similarity to the virus in cattle, the epi investigation might not be able to pinpoint a source.
Wastewater levels are still high, but some indicators such as hospitalizations trended downward.
Wastewater levels are still high, but like other markers are showing a downward trend.
The CDC received reports of 22 more imported cases over the past week, raising the total to 74 from 5 states.
Tests are under way on samples from five contacts who reported symptoms.
Help make CIDRAP's vital work possible
CIDRAP - Center for Infectious Disease Research & PolicyResearch and Innovation Office, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN
Email us
© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights Reserved.The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer
Research and Innovation Office|Contact U of M|Privacy Policy
Newsletter subscribe

Title: FEMA Disaster Recovery Centers close due to weather
Four FEMA Disaster Recovery Centers closed Thursday due to severe weather.
DRC #9 Port St. Joe Library (Gulf County), DRC #10 Sam Atkins Park (Calhoun County), DRC #12 Wewahitchka Town Hall (Gulf County), and DRC #13 John B Gore Park (Bay County) all closed Thursday.
FEMA says all DRCs will resume normal operations by Friday, Nov. 2nd at 8 a.m.

Title: 
Feature: Kenya's fishermen suffer losses as supply to Ebola-hit DRC slumps - Xinhua | English.news.cn

by Robert Manyara
LODWAR, Kenya, Nov. 10 (Xinhua) -- The scorching mid-morning sun failed to deter a group of men from pulling a huge batch of fish from a motor boat moments after landing at Kalokol beach in Lake Turkana located in northwest Kenya.
During a conversation with Xinhua on Friday, the men revealed that they had been on a fishing expedition since dawn.
A group of women who had been waiting for the arrival of the boats swung into action to help the fishermen offload the consignment.
"We have been in the waters since 5:00 a.m. and our nets are full," says Peter Ekiru, a tall and energetic fisherman.
Despite the huge catch, Ekiru was a worried man. The father of six lamented over poor business in the last couple of weeks.
Like most of the fishermen in the area, Ekiru depended on ready market for the fish in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).
However, since Ebola outbreak in DRC, Ekiru's business has suffered losses.
"We depend on fishing as our main economic activity. But there is no stable market for the fish after the Ebola outbreak in the DRC," said Ekiru.
"Previously on a good day I could walk home with about 10 U.S. dollars but the business is low and I hardly get 5 dollar per day," he added.
The DRC, which has been battling the Ebola outbreak since April, provides a huge market for fish in Lake Turkana.
Most fish traders have pulled out of the trade following a decision by some countries that border DRC to introduce stringent health restriction to contain the spread of Ebola.
The DRC government has declared the Ebola outbreak a public health crisis with regional implications while the World Health Organization reported that 27 total cases of fever with hemorrhagic symptoms were recorded in the Bikoro region between April 4 and May 5 this year, including 17 deaths.
Bikoro is situated in Equateur Province on the shores of Lake Tumba in the north-western part of the country near the Republic of the Congo.
It is the ninth time an Ebola outbreak has been reported in DRC since 1976, forcing neighboring countries to heighten border surveillance.
Back to Kalokol, Xinhua found that traders at the five Beach Management Units (BMUs) in Lake Turkana now live on the edge of survival not knowing what the future holds for them as they watch their earnings rapidly dwindle.
"The DRC is our major fish market and Ebola outbreak has affected our business and we don't know when the disease will be contained and business resume," said Jane Etapel.
Etapel says fish prices have fallen since the outbreak from an average of 4 dollars to 2 dollars a single catch as the produce is sold at throw-away prices in the saturated local market.
"We are being exploited because of lack of stable market. Fishmongers have taken advantage of the crisis in DRC to buy fish from us at a throw-away price," said Ekal Ekuwom, an official at the beach.
Trade assessment conducted by Indian Ocean Commission indicates that DRC imports an average of 89,000 tons of fish, mainly from Lake Turkana, to meet the needs of local consumers.
The fishermen will now rely on South Sudan as well Kenya's Nairobi and Kisumu, which compromise the bulk of current demand for fish.
An average of 15,000 kilograms of fish was consumed in Nairobi and 6,000 in Kitale town last month.
Fishermen interviewed said they are hopeful that the situation will return to normal in the Democratic Republic of Congo to enable them to resume profitable business.
Xi confers flag to new national fire and rescue team
Xi holds talks with Cuban president to advance ties
Xi stresses furthering reform and opening-up, elevating city core competitiveness during Shanghai inspection
First China International Import Expo concluded in Shanghai
Ground military equipments displayed during Airshow China in Zhuhai
Airshow China opens in south China's Zhuhai
Highlights of first CIIE in Shanghai
Full-size model of core module of China's space station Tianhe makes debut at Airshow China

Title: Technical Difficulties

We’re sorry, this site is currently experiencing technical difficulties.Please try again in a few moments.Exception: request blocked

Title: DRC Announces New Chief Executive Officer Karen Yamamoto
Searching for your content...
In-Language News
Contact Us
888-776-0942from 8 AM - 10 PM ET
Yamamoto will continue to serve as President, bringing years of insurance and technology experience to DRC's top job
News provided by
Nov 13, 2018, 17:02 ET
Share this article
HONOLULU, Hawaii,Nov. 13, 2018/PRNewswire/ -- Decision Research Corporation (DRC), a technology leader specializing in digital insurance solutions for the P&C insurance industry, is pleased to announce thatKaren Yamamotohas agreed to serve as the company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO). Yamamoto will also continue her responsibilities as President.  Yamamoto's appointment reflects a years-long planned succession in conjunction with the retirement of DRC's founder Dr.Walter Simmons. Her appointment as CEO reflects the company's continued commitment to develop innovative technology solutions for the insurance industry. Yamamoto brings to the role over 30 years of experience in maintaining DRC customer relationships and defining product strategy.
Karen's new title does not represent a shift in DRC strategy. It is an extension of Yamamoto's leadership that has brought DRC to its most successful performance in company history in serving US and global clients and a vote of confidence that her strategic vision will continue to deliver to both the company and customers. "I see enormous opportunity ahead for DRC," noted Yamamoto. "We enjoy a unique position in the industry, led by our flagship RS X Rating technology. Our continued investment in R&D will assure that we will bring even more innovation and value to our customers in the months and years to come."
With decades of insurance, technology, and software development expertise, Yamamoto brings to the CEO role an in-depth knowledge and understanding of all aspects of the development process and a proven methodology for delivering successful, enterprise insurance software solutions -- backed by DRC's commitment to deliver to customers' complete satisfaction. As President, Yamamoto leads with a "hands-on/open door" approach and looks to continue these successful practices as she adds the additional responsibilities of CEO. Yamamoto also remains actively involved in customer engagements and is an integral player in the product design and direction of new insurance technology solutions DRC creates for P&C insurers.
About DRCFor nearly half a century, DRC has provided powerful and trusted software solutions to the Property & Casualty (P&C) insurance industry. Large carriers, small start-ups and MGAs alike inthe United Statesand globally deploy DRC's SaaS and onsite solutions to manage total written premium in excess of$7 billion. DRC's web-based administration system expedites implementation, lowers costs and simplifies maintenance across insurance products. Our leading RS X Rating allows business users who price risks and model products in Microsoft Excel® workbooks to create a version-controlled, web service process throughout the entire insurance ecosystem with minimal need for any programming resource. All DRC clients receive market-leading solutions, expert implementation and our commitment to deliver to their complete satisfaction.  For more information about DRC, visitwww.decisionresearch.com. Connect with DRC on Twitter (@DRCNews) and Facebook (fb.com/DecisionResearch).
SOURCE Decision Research Corporation
http://www.decisionresearch.com
Decision Research Corporation (DRC), a leading provider of enterprise software solutions for the Property and Casualty insurance industry today...
In a timely collaboration, Embark MGA (Embark) and Decision Research Corporation (DRC) joined forces to tackle the pressing need for reliable markets ...
Banking & Financial Services
Insurance
Personnel Announcements

Title: DRC Announces New Chief Executive Officer Karen Yamamoto
Searching for your content...
In-Language News
Contact Us
888-776-0942from 8 AM - 10 PM ET
Yamamoto will continue to serve as President, bringing years of insurance and technology experience to DRC's top job
News provided by
Nov 13, 2018, 17:02 ET
Share this article
HONOLULU, Hawaii,Nov. 13, 2018/PRNewswire/ -- Decision Research Corporation (DRC), a technology leader specializing in digital insurance solutions for the P&C insurance industry, is pleased to announce thatKaren Yamamotohas agreed to serve as the company's Chief Executive Officer (CEO). Yamamoto will also continue her responsibilities as President.  Yamamoto's appointment reflects a years-long planned succession in conjunction with the retirement of DRC's founder Dr.Walter Simmons. Her appointment as CEO reflects the company's continued commitment to develop innovative technology solutions for the insurance industry. Yamamoto brings to the role over 30 years of experience in maintaining DRC customer relationships and defining product strategy.
Karen's new title does not represent a shift in DRC strategy. It is an extension of Yamamoto's leadership that has brought DRC to its most successful performance in company history in serving US and global clients and a vote of confidence that her strategic vision will continue to deliver to both the company and customers. "I see enormous opportunity ahead for DRC," noted Yamamoto. "We enjoy a unique position in the industry, led by our flagship RS X Rating technology. Our continued investment in R&D will assure that we will bring even more innovation and value to our customers in the months and years to come."
With decades of insurance, technology, and software development expertise, Yamamoto brings to the CEO role an in-depth knowledge and understanding of all aspects of the development process and a proven methodology for delivering successful, enterprise insurance software solutions -- backed by DRC's commitment to deliver to customers' complete satisfaction. As President, Yamamoto leads with a "hands-on/open door" approach and looks to continue these successful practices as she adds the additional responsibilities of CEO. Yamamoto also remains actively involved in customer engagements and is an integral player in the product design and direction of new insurance technology solutions DRC creates for P&C insurers.
About DRCFor nearly half a century, DRC has provided powerful and trusted software solutions to the Property & Casualty (P&C) insurance industry. Large carriers, small start-ups and MGAs alike inthe United Statesand globally deploy DRC's SaaS and onsite solutions to manage total written premium in excess of$7 billion. DRC's web-based administration system expedites implementation, lowers costs and simplifies maintenance across insurance products. Our leading RS X Rating allows business users who price risks and model products in Microsoft Excel® workbooks to create a version-controlled, web service process throughout the entire insurance ecosystem with minimal need for any programming resource. All DRC clients receive market-leading solutions, expert implementation and our commitment to deliver to their complete satisfaction.  For more information about DRC, visitwww.decisionresearch.com. Connect with DRC on Twitter (@DRCNews) and Facebook (fb.com/DecisionResearch).
SOURCE Decision Research Corporation
http://www.decisionresearch.com
Decision Research Corporation (DRC), a leading provider of enterprise software solutions for the Property and Casualty insurance industry today...
In a timely collaboration, Embark MGA (Embark) and Decision Research Corporation (DRC) joined forces to tackle the pressing need for reliable markets ...
Banking & Financial Services
Insurance
Personnel Announcements

Title: Home | Monitor
Hello
Your subscription is almost coming to an end. Don’t miss out on the great content on Nation.Africa
Ready to continue your informative journey with us?
Hello
Your premium access has ended, but the best of Nation.Africa is still within reach. Renew now to unlock exclusive stories and in-depth features.
Reclaim your full access. Click below to renew.
Subscribe fora month to get full access
Yoweri Museveni is the flag bearer in all elections in which the party participates until he decides not to do so
Consultations are on to lift the ban if resources allow
Museveni contributed Shs150m towards a mega project by the diocese
Historically, matches between these two giants have always been charged. An electric atmosphere is expected today as Mbale desperately searches for a decent result while Villa aims to spoil the...
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) says Juba’s risk of debt distress remains high
Over the past decade Mr Museveni has emphasised that what matters is not ‘who’, but rather ‘why’, that’s, it’s not the person at the top but the mission and ideas they are pursuing, also coached...
Dragon fruit offers a combination of health benefits, economic potential, sustainability, culinary versatility and aesthetic appeal, making it an attractive crop for keen farmers. It...
The improvement in income has seen NSSF’s total assets under management grow to Shs22.12 trillion as of June 2024 from Shs18.56 trillion
There is good reason to believe that Kabalagala would not be known as Kampala’s top hangout neighbourhood if it was not for Capital Pub
Uganda’s coffee is being rushed into Europe ahead of EU Deforestation law, but there is work to be done
Their chairman Eng. Ronald Barente was reelected for another four-year term with renewed optimism that this could be the season they finally etch their name among the country’s champions.
Nation Media Group © 2024
It's free!
Access the best of Monitor's Independent Journalism

Title: Zambia : Lungu wants a smooth transmission in DRC


To subscribe, simply enter your email address on our website or click the subscribe button below. Don't worry, we respect your privacy and won't spam your inbox. Your information is safe with us.
Share
President Edgar Lungu says he wants a smooth power transition in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).
President Lungu said he does not want unnecessary scheming after the December 23, Presidential elections in DRC.
Mr Lungu, who is also SADC Chairperson on Peace and Security, said this in Lusaka during official talks with United States Special Envoy Leila Zerrougui who called on him at State House today.
Special Assistant to the Press and Public Relations Amos Chanda briefed Journalists shortly after the two leaders met.
The Head of State said Zambia has proved to be a peaceful nation and she is a shining example in the SADC region and beyond therefore, utilising his Chairmanship on Peace and Security should reap desired poll results.
Mr Lungu is hopeful that there will be a peaceful power transition in DRC in that winners continue in governing national affairs while the losers accept the poll results and mobilize for future elections.
DRC is having democratic general elections this year and President Lungu does not want the explosion and subsequent exodus of refugees from that country after elections.
The President believes that consultative engagement is the best way to surround the DRC election outcome.
The visiting Envoy commended Zambia for hosting over 50, 000 Congolese refugees who sought asylum in Zambia.
Meanwhile, President Edgar Lungu has commended the United States government for the provision of clean drinking water.
The Head of State however appealed to the US government to consider coming back and offer its services in the improvement of water through the Millennium Challaneed Account (MCA).
The US government provided a $ 355 million towards provision of clean drinking water in Lusaka.
This was when MCA Vice Mail President Jeanne Hauch called on him at State House today.
And Ms Hauch who was accompanied by US Ambassador to Zambia Daniel Foote and MCA Resident Country Director Steven Marma, commended the Zambian government for revolutionizing the water sector.
She said the provision of clean drinking water is making an impact in different households in Lusaka.
Lungu wants this, Lungu wants that….
Is this the language of humble VVVVIPs?
I swear Lungu thinks he is the “Dog’s bollocks”
Listen to whomever is trying to advise the DRC! Not Mr President Lungu for God’s sake! What examples is he giving to the DRC? Violence? Rigging? Refusing to handover power to the speaker of the National Assembly if their will be petition in the DRC or indeed clinging to State House if still their will be a petition in the DRC?
Please ECL help DRC arrest Kabila peacefully so that we can also learn how to areest you peacefully after your tenure
He should have left office when his victory was contested, he didn’t. When his ministers stayed in office and the courts ruled they were styed in office illegally and must pay back all monies they earned, He has defied the law of the land. He has a huge stick in his eye, but sees a speck in the eyes of others! Not Zambia’s legitimate president, just a king thief heading a pack of other thieves in cabinet!
His Party has internal fighting he can’t even control his violent party how can he manage DRC fighting
He should lead by example…shameless!
Useless thief convicted debarred lawyer…. Would u listen to a loser like that….pompwe
He is talking from experience about scheming to stay in power.
Yes, he is a schemer. Stole the elections from H.H.
Comments are closed.
Read more
Company
Trending
Categories
© Lusaka Times
Subscribe now to keep reading and get access to the full archive.
Type your email…
Subscribe
Continue reading

Title: 'Tiny Targets' Aid in Fighting African Sleeping Sickness | MedPage Today
byJohn  Gever,Managing Editor, MedPage TodayNovember 1, 2018
This article is a collaboration between MedPage Today and:
NEW ORLEANS  --  Deployment of an extremely simple device in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) appeared to dramatically reduce the tsetse fly population, though whether it cut transmission rates for gambiense-human African trypanosomiasis (gHAT) remains to be seen, a researcher said here.
Called "Tiny Targets," the device consists of insecticide-treated fabric not much bigger than a handkerchief, mounted on a stick and placed along rivers and other water bodies where tsetse flies congregate, explained Inaki Tirados, PhD, of the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine in England.
The devices were installed in three yearly phases during 2015-2017 as part of a broader effort to combat gHAT (also known as African sleeping sickness), with each phase in a different region ranging from 500 to 2,700 km2.
Tsetse fly surveys in those regions found that counts declined 73% to 91% from the pre-intervention baseline, Tirados reported at theAmerican Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene's (ASTMH) annual meeting.
But he cautioned that gHAT transmission rates have not yet been measured, and reductions in fly populations of that magnitude by themselves may not have much effect. He noted that, in some of the areas treated, humans themselves are the primary reservoir ofTrypanosoma brucei, the parasite responsible for gHAT. In those areas, Tirados said, the surviving 10% of flies may still be enough to maintain transmission.

Still, he argued, vector control including Tiny Targets must be continued if the DRC is to meet goals for eliminating gHAT. Tirados cited previous projections that showed it would take more than 100 years for screening and treatment alone to end gHAT transmission in hyper-endemic DRC regions. In contrast, adding vector control at 90% effectiveness would bring elimination within short-term reach.
As background, Tirados explained that the DRC is essentially ground zero for gHAT. Although conventional screen-and-treat programs have brought case counts down considerably in the DRC and elsewhere in Africa, the country has never accounted for less than half of all cases on the continent. Moreover, other countries have been more successful than the DRC in combating gHAT: in 2014, the last year for which continent-wide case counts are available, more than 90% were in the DRC. (That's not necessarily a fair comparison, though, since the DRC is geographically bigger than most other countries where gHAT has been endemic.)
A goal of gHAT elimination in the DRC by 2030 was set in 2012 at a major international conference on so-called neglected tropical diseases. Vector control was included as part of the recommended strategy.
That's where Tiny Targets came in. The devices have been used successfully in other countries including Chad, Guinea, and Uganda, where fly densities were cut by more than 80%. Their simplicity and low cost (about one-fifth that of conventional traps) is a major advantage in resource-poor countries, allowing them to be deployed in large numbers (40 per linear kilometer along rivers extending hundreds of kilometers in the DRC program, Tirados said) by people with minimal training.
The intervention is planned to continue, Tirados said. "Hotspots" for transmission have been identified, totalling some 12,000 km2, and efforts will be directed to "capacity strengthening" so that this area, about triple the total in the first three phases, can be effectively covered in future deployments. Tirados said dedicated "operational units" should be formed to continue the deployments.
As with any insecticide-based vector control effort, development of resistance is a concern. But in response to an ASTMH audience member's question, Tirados said there's been no sign that the Tiny Targets are losing effectiveness.
Primary Source
American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene
Source Reference:Tirados I, et al "Large-scale use of insecticide-impregnated 'Tiny Targets' to control tsetse flies in the Democratic Republic of Congo" ASTMH 2018; Abstract 2073.
The material on this site is for informational purposes only, and is not a substitute for medical advice, diagnosis or treatment provided by a qualified health care provider.© 2005–2024
      MedPage Today, LLC, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.MedPage Today is among the federally registered trademarks of MedPage Today, LLC and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.

Title: Democratic Republic of the Congo UNHCR Mid-Month Update (1 - 15 October 2018) - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWeb
DR Congo+ 3 more
This document provides a mid-month update on major evolutions occurring between the publication of UNHCR’s monthly operational reports. This is not an operational report.
Refugees
Following the expulsion of Congolese citizens from Angola, the National Refugee Commission identified 122 refugees, registered in Angola, among the expelled. Their refugee status was confirmed by UNHCR Angola, while 5 other cases were not confirmed. UNHCR and partners War Child and CNR are closely monitoring the protection situation by reporting incidents, conducting referrals, and pursuing their cash for protection programme in the region.
UNHCR published a mid-year update of the Regional Refugee Response Plans (RRRP) for theSouth Sudanese situationand theBurundian situation.For the South Sudanese situation, theDRC’s specific responseand aninfographics versionare also available, as well as for the Burundian situation (click here forDRC’s specific response, and here for theinfographics version.
In collaboration with IOM, UNHCR resettled an extremely vulnerable Central African refugee family to Norway. This was the second Central African refugee family to be resettled from the DRC.
On 1 October, UNHCR started the physical verification of all Burundian refugees living outside of camps in South Kivu Province. This will allow UNHCR to update numbers of refugees and deliver ID cards.
At Mulongwe settlement, UNHCR’s partner AFPDE increased access to water for Burundian refugees to 20L/person/day, the humanitarian standard, thanks to the connection of three new water sources to the settlement’s water system.
The funding gap for the Burundian situation in the DRC persisted, depleting essential medication stocks and leading to more frequent referrals to secondary health structures.
On 12 October, UNHCR and partners started a mission to verify the numbers and the situation of an estimated 12,500 South Sudanese refugees remaining in border areas in Dungu Territory, Haut-Uele province.
18,138 individual ID cards were distributed to Central African refugees in 4 camps in Nord and Sud-Ubangi Provinces, from August to date. ID cards allow refugees to move freely in the DRC.
CAR+ 2 more
CAR+ 2 more
CAR
CAR
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Democratic Republic of the Congo Situation: UNHCR Regional Update (September 2018) - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWeb
DR Congo+ 11 more
As of 30 September 2018, 810,227 Congolese refugees are being hosted in African countries. From 1 January to 30 September 2018 alone, some 139,395 Congolese fled to neighboring countries, with a particularly significant increase in refugee flows to Burundi, Uganda and Zambia.
UNHCR together with 43 humanitarian and development partners launched the revised Regional Refugee Response Plan (RRRP) on 17 July 2018 for $547 million to help respond to the needs of Congolese refugees in neighboring countries.
Regional Highlights and Operational Context
■ A total of 810,227 Congolese refugees and asylumseekers are being hosted in countries in Africa, which have generously maintained an open door policy in granting asylum to old and new asylum seekers.
■ The security conditions in the DRC, especially in the eastern and central provinces, remains volatile with sporadic outbreaks of violence leading to displacement of civilians within the country, and across borders to neighboring countries. This has placed the DRC refugee population among the ten largest in the world.
■ UNHCR received $148.5 million for the DRC situation, representing only 40 per cent of the total requirements for 2018.
■ The interagency RRRP for the DRC situation has received $76.9 million, representing only 14 per cent of the total requirements for 2018.
DR Congo
DR Congo
DR Congo
DR Congo
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: The Achilles’ Heel Of Electric Vehicles | OilPrice.com
Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices
Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices
Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices
Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices
Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices
Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices
Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices
Click Here for 150+ Global Oil Prices
Canada’s Role in Global Energy Supply Critical for U.S., Says RBC Chief
Find us on:
OPEC argues that taxes on…
Geothermal energy, propelled by enhanced…
The oil market might be…
Global Risk Insights
GlobalRiskInsights.com provides the web’s best political risk analysis for businesses and investors. Our contributors are some of the brightest minds in economics, politics, finance, and…
More Info
Cobalt’s essential role in lithium-ion batteries has and will continue to make it increasingly important for the global consumer economy. Cobalt serves as a key component in battery-based devices by allowing them to operate over longer periods without overheating. With the global transition to electric vehicles (EVs), corporations are increasingly forced to rely on cobalt from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), where a culture of corruption, unscrupulous mining practices, and political instability threaten supply security.
The Electric Vehicle revolution and rising demand for cobalt
EVs are still in their infancy, but many governments and corporations are committed to a green automotive future. While Washington has currently abdicated global leadership in promoting EVs,China has embraced the transition, with 777,000 EVs sold in country last year—approximately half of the global total—and this is set to triple by 2025. China is not the only nation planning rapid EV expansion. In July 2017,Great Britain announced a banon the sale of diesel and petrol cars by 2040, and other nations have proposed similar targets, following the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement. In the private sector, automakers have announced large-scale plans to electrify their fleet of vehicles. For example,Volkswagen aimsfor a quarter of its vehicle production to be electric by 2025. The growth of electric vehicles and renewable energy technologies—the largest energy shift in a century–could depend largely on the availability and cost to produce and refine cobalt.
As the number of EVs increases from 2 million on the road now to 118 million by 2030,Bloomberg’s New Energy Finance (BNEF) divisionpredictsdemand for cobalt will soar to 156 kilotons whileDarton Commoditiespredicts demand to reach 357kt per year by 2030 if there is no breakthrough in battery technology. With current battery technology each EV battery requires 18 pounds of cobalt—over 1,000 times the quarter-ounce used in smartphones. To meet this rising demand for cobalt, companies are forced to turn to the DRC because, according toCasper Rawles, an analyst at Benchmark Mineral Intelligence, “Without the DRC, this ramp-up in EVs won’t happen.”

(Click to enlarge)
Supply concerns with DRC cobalt
There are significant concerns about cobalt supply availability.According to McKinsey, total global cobalt supply in 2017 was approximately 127-140 kt. The DRC accounted for almost 70% of this output, and within the decade this will likely grow to 75%. Of this output from the DRC, 20% is produced by “artisanal” cobalt mines that often engage in unscrupulous mining practices, such as child labour. Russia, Australia, Canada, and Cuba—the next largest suppliers—account for only 13% collectively, and currently all mine capacity expansion projects outside of Africa are in early stages.

(Click to enlarge)
In order to prevent a supply crunch and price spikes in cobalt,major investmentin expanding cobalt supply capacity is required. By 2025, an additional 110-120 kt of cobalt capacity will be added to global supply—bringing a total potential supply to 225-235 kt—and of the new capacity added, 40-45 kt will come from two projects in the DRC. Glencore’s Katanga Mining and Gecamines expansion project could add 30 kt of cobalt by 2019, and the Metalkol Roan Tailings Reclamation Project from the Eurasian Resources Group could add 14 kt of cobalt supply by 2020. The DRC is and will continue to be the linchpin of global cobalt supply.

(Click to enlarge)
Despite the upcoming mining expansion projects, there is significant uncertainty surrounding cobalt supply.According to BNEF analysts, “The long lead time to bring on new mines and the concentration of cobalt reserves in the Democratic Republic of the Congo mean there is a real possibility of supply shocks in the early 2020s.” Another key issue is that 90% of mine supply is produced as a by-product of copper (55%) and nickel (35%) mines, leaving the key commoditydependent on nickel and coppermarket dynamics. If the DRC descends into political turmoil, continues to allow human rights violations, or its supply capacity does not grow as planned, there could be serious implications for the EV market.
Key political risks in the DRC’s cobalt industry
The DRC’s cobalt industry faces acute political risks, most notably changes in mining law and an upcoming presidential election, which have contributed to an aura of uncertainty in the nation.Related: Will U.S. Solar Survive The Trade War?
For the DRC, mining accounts for 80% of the central government’s earnings, and recently the government has revised laws to take greater advantage of the resource. In September 2018, President Kabila declared cobalt was a“strategic mineral”and increased royalties to the government from 2% to 10%, which could raise the price of cobalt and EVs.
Theprecarious political balancecreated by Kabila over his 18-year reign since the First and Second Congo Wars (1996-1997, 1998-2003) could collapse with the upcoming presidential elections. Kabila, whose legal term ended in 2016,pledgedthat he would not stand for the elections in December 2018, and that his close political ally Emmanuel Ramazani Shadary will succeed him on the ballot. A rigged election or a radical political change through an opposition party victory could spark instability in the DRC, whichaccording to Peter Deneen, a managing director at EV-Metals Resources Group, would disrupt exports and create supply constraints the market is unprepared for.
Supply chain risks
Corporations are confronted with a series of supply chain challenges in the DRC, most notably ethical concerns about mining practices. TheDRC artisanal mines, which produce roughly 13% of total global cobalt supply, employ creuseurs, independent miners with little safety equipment, as young as 10. Many corporations, however, believe that ending all business with artisanal mines would devastate millions of people dependent on the work. For example, an Apple executivestated in an email, “There are real challenges with artisanal mining of cobalt in the Democratic Republic of Congo, but we believe deeply that walking away would do nothing to improve conditions for people or the environment.”
While corporations and the DRC government have taken steps since Amnesty International’s revolutionary2016 report, it is virtually impossible to assure that child labour is not involved in the supply chain. Cobalt often passes through multiple companies and countries, and some industrial miners will supplement production withcreuseur-produced cobalt. TheWSJ recently foundthat cobalt from the Mutoshi creuseur-worked mine found its way through multiple corporations to Apple and VW. This uncertainty could lead to a premium for certified cobalt or lower supply for end-use sectors that fear tarnishing their brands.
Possible technological solutions
In order to limit the risks involved in sourcing cobalt from the DRC, many companies are exploring alternatives, such as increasing battery recycling, decreasing the cobalt necessary, or developing new battery technology. While the majority of these projects will alleviate supply constraints, they will likely be unable to completely eliminate all risks.
In order to develop a cheaper, more efficient, and less risky alternative to mining cobalt, many scientists are attempting to improve battery-recycling technology. In 2017, 12-15 kt of cobalt wasrecoveredfrom battery recycling, and itcould provide100 kt of cobalt annually by 2030. This recycled cobalt could be an essential source for easing supply constraints and preventing a future shortage.

(Click to enlarge)
Companies have been racing to develop ways to reduce cobalt use by substituting nickel.For example, China’s BYD Co. isdevelopingbatteries with a nickel-manganese-cobalt ratio of 8:1:1, which will be released by the end of 2018.BNEF predictsthat low-cobalt nickel batteries will increase from 7% of EV batteries in 2020 to 57% of all EV batteries by 2030. Low cobalt batteries, however, hold a considerablefire riskdue to the metal’s role as a stabilizing agent.Related: The Energy Investment Model With A Glaring Problem
Some companies are developing solid-state batteries to eliminate cobalt completely. For example, Volkswagen haspartnered withQuantumScape, a California-based solid-state battery start-up, but development is a long and uncertain process. Speaking on this topic, VW’s research director Axel Heinrich said, “We are at a very early research stage. I cannot tell you which year we will have batteries with no cobalt.”According to the FT, solid-state batteries are predicted to enter the EV market in 2025 and by 2030 will be installed in the majority of EVs. Still, doubts remain about the viability of cobalt-free batteries.
Outlook
The scale and pace of the global transition to EVs will be largely dependent on the supply and demand dynamics of cobalt. If EV adoption is aggressive and there is a slowdown in bringing new cobalt supply sources online, there could be a shortage by 2022. Furthermore, increased DRC resource nationalism and a continued lack of transparency could add supply risks in this scenario. These factors would have immediate effects on the growth of EVs, but in the medium and long-term would likely prompt the market to develop new battery technologies, such as nickel and solid-state options. A greater setback would involve the DRC descending into political instability, which would require corporations to develop immediate strategies to mitigate the fallout from a substantial supply loss. While the supply-demand balance in tight, it is highly possible for a supply shock to be avoided, but this would need to involve continued stability in the DRC, new supply sources, reasonable demand, and improvements in battery technology.
ByGlobal Risk Insights
More Top Reads From Oilprice.com:
Back to homepage
Previous Post
365,000 Bpd Shut In After Tanker Collides With Norwegian Warship
Next Post
GE's Fight For Survival
GlobalRiskInsights.com provides the web’s best political risk analysis for businesses and investors. Our contributors are some of the brightest minds in economics, politics, finance, and…
Why No Major Oil Company Is Rushing To Drill Pakistan's Huge Oil Reserves
The Latest Oil Price Crash Appears to Have Come to an End
3-Mile-Long Freight Trains Cause Traffic Nightmares in Texas
Big Players Lock In Cheap Oil Before the Tide Turns
Has Sentiment Finally Shifted in Oil Markets?
ADVERTISEMENT

©OilPrice.com
The materials provided on this Web site are for informational and educational purposes only and are not intended to provide tax, legal, or investment advice.
Nothing contained on the Web site shall be considered a recommendation, solicitation, or offer to buy or sell a security to any person in any jurisdiction.
Merchant of Record: A Media Solutions trading as Oilprice.com