Title: Namib Times | Search Results
Namdeb announced its long-term business plan earlier this month, confirming it would mine diamonds on land at Oranjemund for another twenty years. Had this plan not been developed, the mining of land diamonds would have ended at the end of 2022. News of the extension of the mine’s life to 2042 is welcomed news for […]
22/10/2021Comments Offon Namdeb extends diamond mining at Oranjemund by another 20 yearsRead More
“The devastating impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the tourism industry in particular, and the commensurate mitigating measures taken by governments around the world whereby industry revenues collapsed, can be described as worse than the worst-case scenarios anticipated locally and globally”, says Norbert Wurm, Managing Director of O&L Leisure. In a statement issued on Wednesday, […]
23/07/2021Comments Offon O&L Group takes rescue measuresRead More
The last 290 fishermen out of approximately 1 000 who lost their jobs in the fishing industry since an illegal strike in 2015 are employed now, thanks to a joint effort by the private sector, the Ministry of Fisheries and Marine Resources and the Ministry of Labour. The fishermen were appointed by Hangana Seafood Processors […]
25/06/2021Comments Offon Last 290 “fired” fisherman finally re-employedRead More
Namibia Press & Tool Company, the last surviving Export Processing Zone (EPZ) company in Walvis Bay, will close down at the end of the year. Two well-informed sources confirmed this to Namib Times this week, adding the company opts to relocate to another country, as Namibia’s current EPZ tax-regime comes to an end in 2025.“As […]
28/05/2021Comments Offon Last surviving EPZ company announces closure in Walvis BayRead More
Namibia’s road network has been rated the best on the African continent for the 5th consecutive year, says the Deputy Minister of  Works and Transport, John Mutorwa. The Deputy Minister of Works and Transport, Veikko Nekundi visited Walvis Bay yesterday to launch the second edition of a report on the state of Namibia’s Logistics. In […]
26/03/2021Comments Offon 5th year in a row! Namibia’s road network ranked NUMBER ONE on the African continentRead More
The Namibia hake trawl and longline fishery has become the first fishery in Namibia, and the second in Africa, to meet the globally recognised standard for sustainable fishing set by the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC), an environmental organisation not for profit. The certification recognises progress made by the Namibian government and fishing industry in rebuilding […]
20/11/2020Comments Offon International honour for Namibian Hake FisheryRead More
Following nearly two decades of on-going discussions between the two countries, the state-owned Meatco on 19 February 2020 sent its first consignment of 25 tonnes of beef via the port of Walvis Bay and it will reach the United States through the port of Philadelphia. Namibia is set to export 860 tonnes of various beef […]
28/02/2020Comments Offon Namibia First African Country Eligible to export Beef to The United StatesRead More
Floris Steenkamp Namport is currently conducting a study to look at ways to safely navigate mega-container ships through the main shipping channel of the port of Walvis Bay under any weather scenario. The ports authority expects answers by September, said Port Engineer Elzevir Gelderbloem. Container ships larger than 5 000 TEU’s can only safely enter […]
25/06/2019Comments Offon Size matters in the world of shippingRead More
Thirty-seven Namibia Maritime and Fisheries Institute (NAMFI) students graduated as fisheries inspectors and observers, Class 6 deck officers, navigation officers and marine engineering officers. The Chairperson of the Board of Trustees of NAMFI Ms Connie Pandeni said “Through the years the board and management have been working on strategies to raise funds and as a […]
18/12/2018Comments Offon Namfi students graduateRead More
Liebe Küstenleser! Die Erdoberfläche ist zu über 70 Prozent mit Wasser bedeckt. Das sind etwa 1,4 Milliarden Kubikkilometer Wasser. Süßwasser macht dabei nur einen kleinen Teil des gesamten Wasservolumens aus – nämlich nur 2,5 Prozent. Davon ist das meiste in Form von Eis oder Schnee in der Arktis und der Antarktis gebunden. Der Rest ist […]
12/07/2017Comments Offon Locker vom Hocker: Wertvolle Tropfen!Read More
Namib Times
Log in-Powered by WordPress- 
		Designed byGabfire Themes

Title:  Patriots begin Genocide regional memorial tourney title defence
 - The New Times 


Title: South African Presence at DRC Mining Week in Lubumbashi Indicates Strong Interest in DRC Mining Sector - PR.com
The South African Capital Equipment Export Council (SACEEC) is bringing a strong delegation of South African suppliers to the DRC Mining Week conference and exhibition, that is taking place in Lubumbashi, from 23-24 June.

Title: SCATTER78: Gacor Bos Situs Slot Gacor 88 Hari Ini Link Agen Dana Judi Online Terpercaya

Before going to the point of sale, check the availability of the goods by phone. It may happen that someone else is starting up at the checkout with the selected goods.
SCATTER78adalah link agen judi slot online terpercaya stake 200situs slot gacor88 hari ini di indonesia, bandar link gacor slot88 terbaru dan terbaik untuk permainan slot maxwin paling lengkap yang mudah menang jackpott. gabung bersama kami daftar dan login sekarang juga akun VIP untuk mendapatkan bonus yang besar di scatter78 slot!!!
Bermain slot online dapat menjadi hiburan yang untungkan kalau dikerjakan bersama siasat yang tepat. Situs slot layaknya Scatter78 menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik bersama kesempatan menang besar. Berikut ini lebih dari satu siasat yang dapat Anda cobalah untuk meningkatkan kesempatan menang Anda di situs slot gacor Scatter78:
Beberapa pemain percaya bahwa tersedia "jam gacor" khusus kala mesin slot lebih kerap berikan tambahan kemenangan. Walaupun hal ini tidak semuanya terbukti, tidak ada salahnya mencoba bermain di jam-jam yang diakui lebih untungkan oleh pemain sloter.Setiap mesin slot punyai karakteristik berbeda. Sebelum jadi bermain, kenali style slot yang Anda mainkan. Perhatikan RTP (Return to Player) yang berasal dari mesinslot gacortersebut. RTP yang tinggi (di atas 98%) condong berikan tambahan kemenangan lebih sering.mesin slot punyai pola khusus yang bisa dipelajari. Cobalah untuk memperhatikan putaran mesin dan temukan pola kemenangan yang mungkin ada. Meskipun slot berupa acak, beberapa pola bisa berikan tambahan indikasi kapan mesin mungkin mengeluarkan hadiah besar.

© 2024 SCATTER78 BRAND

Title: Country Procurement and Logistics Coordinator Non-profit Careers - Danish Refugee Council (DRC)

Job Title:  Client Relations Manager Organisation: SautiPlus Media Hub Duty…
Job Title:    Repossession Specialist Boda Organisation: Mogo Uganda Duty Station:…
Job Title:  Head of Credit Policy & Portfolio Management Organisation: ABSA…
Job Title:  Finance and Administration Manager Organisation: Nama Wellness Community…
Job Title:  Order Fulfillment and Dispatch Officer Organisation: Mapenzi Grill…
Job Title:   Lead, Program Planning and Monitoring Organisation: Mastercard Foundation Duty…

For employers, please send your adverts and inquiries to ugandanjobline@gmail.com
Popular JobsFresher Order Fulfillment and Dispatch Officer Jobs – Mapenzi Grill Restaurant4 min readJob Title:  Order Fulfillment and Dispatch Officer Organisation: Mapenzi GrillRead More5 Unit Manager Jobs – ICEA LION Life Assurance3 min readJob Title:    Unit Manager (5 Job Vacancies) Organisation: ICEA LIONRead MoreFresher Membership Relations Officer Jobs – United Nations Staff Savings and Credit Cooperative Society Limited (UNS-SACCO)6 min readJob Title:       Membership Relations Officer (MRO) (Fresher Jobs) Organisation: United NationsRead MoreSecurity Coordinator – Oil & Gas Jobs – NFT Consult Limited4 min readJob Title:  Security Coordinator – Oil & Gas Organisation: NFT ConsultRead MoreProcess Control Engineer (Re-advertized) Jobs – Nile Breweries2 min readJob Title:   Process Control Engineer (Re-advertized) Organisation: Nile Breweries Limited DutyRead More
Job Title:  Order Fulfillment and Dispatch Officer Organisation: Mapenzi GrillRead More
Job Title:    Unit Manager (5 Job Vacancies) Organisation: ICEA LIONRead More
Job Title:       Membership Relations Officer (MRO) (Fresher Jobs) Organisation: United NationsRead More
Job Title:  Security Coordinator – Oil & Gas Organisation: NFT ConsultRead More
Job Title:   Process Control Engineer (Re-advertized) Organisation: Nile Breweries Limited DutyRead More




Title: Environment Assistant Non-profit Careers - Danish Refugee Council (DRC)

Job Title:    Field Research Assistant, West Nile (100 Fresher Data…
Job Title:   Lead, Program Planning and Monitoring Organisation: Mastercard Foundation Duty…
Job Title:   Executive Assistant (Several Admin Jobs) Organisation: Mastercard Foundation Duty…
Job Title:   Monitoring and Evaluation Assistant (Fresher Diploma Jobs) Organisation: LWF…
Job Title:  Procurement Assistant (Fresher Non-profit Jobs)   Organisation: Makerere…
Job Title:   Pharmacy Technician    Organisation: Medical Research Council (MRC…

For employers, please send your adverts and inquiries to ugandanjobline@gmail.com
Popular JobsFresher Order Fulfillment and Dispatch Officer Jobs – Mapenzi Grill Restaurant4 min readJob Title:  Order Fulfillment and Dispatch Officer Organisation: Mapenzi GrillRead More5 Unit Manager Jobs – ICEA LION Life Assurance3 min readJob Title:    Unit Manager (5 Job Vacancies) Organisation: ICEA LIONRead MoreFresher Membership Relations Officer Jobs – United Nations Staff Savings and Credit Cooperative Society Limited (UNS-SACCO)6 min readJob Title:       Membership Relations Officer (MRO) (Fresher Jobs) Organisation: United NationsRead MoreSecurity Coordinator – Oil & Gas Jobs – NFT Consult Limited4 min readJob Title:  Security Coordinator – Oil & Gas Organisation: NFT ConsultRead MoreProcess Control Engineer (Re-advertized) Jobs – Nile Breweries2 min readJob Title:   Process Control Engineer (Re-advertized) Organisation: Nile Breweries Limited DutyRead More
Job Title:  Order Fulfillment and Dispatch Officer Organisation: Mapenzi GrillRead More
Job Title:    Unit Manager (5 Job Vacancies) Organisation: ICEA LIONRead More
Job Title:       Membership Relations Officer (MRO) (Fresher Jobs) Organisation: United NationsRead More
Job Title:  Security Coordinator – Oil & Gas Organisation: NFT ConsultRead More
Job Title:   Process Control Engineer (Re-advertized) Organisation: Nile Breweries Limited DutyRead More




Title: DRC army fights rebels in east, 11 hostages released | News24
Sunday, 22 September
05 Jun 2017
Beni - A military spokesperson says 11 people kidnapped by rebels in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo have been released after days of fighting.
Captain Mak Hazukay Mongba said on Monday that residents of Mamundioma village were freed on Sunday near the Virunga National Park after the military intensified fighting against Allied Democratic Forces rebels. The ADF rebels had taken the 11 after an attack on Friday.
The released hostages said they were told to call on the military to halt operations against ADF rebels.
The group has killed more than 1 000 people in eastern DRC since October 2014.
A local rights group based in Beni says more than 100 people are still being held by the rebels.
ADF, founded in Uganda, has been active since the 1990s but intensified its attacks inside DRC several years ago.
Free to listen for subscribers
News24's September audiobook that’s free to listen to for subscribers is The Super Cadres: ANC Misrule in the Age of Deployment by Pieter du Toit.
Indulge in the finer things
News24's new magazine is curated for those who understand luxury and want to celebrate the richness of life.
Can you ace them all?
Today’s crossword, wordflower, sudoku and weekly news quiz
Friday Briefing - weekly
Insight and analysis on the big political story of the week, plus a roundup of top columns and reader favourites.
04 Sep
21 Aug
16 Aug
07 Aug
01 Aug
19 Jul

Use your voice to deepen the dialogue and engage with stories of courage, endurance, community, triumph, and the pursuit of truth in SA.
17 Sep
17 Sep
13 Sep
01 Sep
Contact the public editor with feedback for our journalists, complaints, queries or suggestions about articles on News24.
04 Sep
12 Sep
09 Sep
11 Sep