Title: Democratic Republic of the Congo | Today's latest from Al Jazeera
The defendants – who also included a Briton, Belgian and Canadian – have five days to appeal the verdict.
Health agency reports 107 deaths and 3,160 new cases over the last week, says toll ‘not acceptable’.
African countries produce less than 2 percent of the vaccines the continent needs, experts say.
Mpox cases are surging in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. But there are still not enough vaccines.
A week after the escape attempt at Makala prison, many blame dire prison conditions for making a bad situation worse.
Deaths from mpox can be prevented, if only profit would not stand in the way of saving lives.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo has received its first batch of mpox vaccines.
Authorities aim to start vaccinations in October but face logistical challenges as doses need to be kept cold.
Conflict is really impacting mpox struggle.
Amid threats from mpox and new unknown viruses, how do epidemiologists track pathogens before a health crisis begins?
Interior Minister Shabani Lukoo says 24 people were shot dead while others suffocated in the crowd.
Authorities say the security forces have the situation under control, but the number of casualties is unclear.
Border regions in countries neighbouring DRC raise alert levels and screening measures as the mpox virus spreads.
We discuss the role of musicians and influencers in the ongoing protests against the Kenyan government.
Follow Al Jazeera English:

Title: Uganda and DRC bordering districts agree to intensify cross-border surveillance to tackle Ebola - Uganda | ReliefWeb
Uganda+ 1 more
Kasese 3rd December 2018:- As the Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) outbreak spirals in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Uganda and DRC have resolved to increase cross-border surveillance on both sides of the Uganda-DRC border. This was the consensus during a cross-border meeting among health officials from the two countries, held at Kasindi- Lubiriha immigrations office, in DRC.
One of the ways suggested to improve cross-border surveillance is to harmonize the data collection tools to ensure that similar information is captured at the screening points along the Uganda-DRC border in both countries. The officials also highlighted the need to map out all the points of entry along the border to ensure that no border entry point lacks a screening point.
To increase awareness among the populations on both sides of the border, the participants agreed to intensify risk communication and community engagement to address the issue of misconceptions, rumours and myths on Ebola, particularly at the Kasese - Kasindi-Lubiriha border area.
The Uganda team also shared experiences about the functionality of the different pillars in the EVD preparedness response. From that, the DRC team particularly appreciated the use of Village Health Teams to conduct risk communication and community engagement. They also welcomed the community-based disease surveillance approach, promising to apply it in the DRC context.
The meeting was attended by teams from both countries including health, security, immigration, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Uganda Red Cross.
Despite having no confirmed case of EVD, Uganda remains on high alert and is implementing a series of activities to ensure preparedness. These activities include border screening, community based and health facility surveillance, coordination of activities, collection and testing of blood samples from alert cases and capacity building for Infection, Prevention and Control. Other activities include clinical management, psycho-social care for safe and dignified burials, risk communication, community engagement and cross-border surveillance.
DR Congo+ 4 more
DR Congo
DR Congo+ 7 more
DR Congo
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: 
UN envoy urges Uganda to mobilize AU on elimination of DR Congo rebels - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KAMPALA, Dec. 4 (Xinhua) -- The UN special envoy for the Great Lakes region has urged Uganda to mobilize the African Union (AU) and regional bodies in efforts to eliminate negative forces in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).
Said Djinnit, in a statement issued by Uganda's ministry of foreign affairs, on Tuesday made the call while meeting Sam Kutesa, Uganda's minister of foreign affairs.
Djinnit said the AU and regional bodies like the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region and the Southern African Development Community should come together and propose solutions to wipe out the Allied Democratic Force (ADF) rebels and also repatriate the M23 fighters.
Kutesa said Uganda will cooperate but also called on the UN to coordinate the process of implementing the agreed-on position of mobilizing other countries to come on board.
The two officials agreed that negative forces in the region should be wiped out by February next year.
The meeting comes after another planned meeting between Uganda and DRC on a proposed joint operation to fight the ADF rebels holed up in eastern DRC.
Brig. Richard Karemire, Uganda's military spokesperson told Xinhua on Nov. 28 that the meeting was postponed to allow for more consultations.
ADF is a Ugandan rebel group causing mayhem in eastern DRC. The outfit in one of its recent deadly attacks killed eight UN peacekeepers and at least 12 DRC soldiers in North Kivu province.
The soldiers were killed during joint operations of the UN peacekeeping mission and DRC troops against the insurgents in Beni territory.
Several attacks by the ADF have forced thousands of Congolese to flee to neighboring Uganda.
China, Panama agree to further promote ties
Xi calls for more business cooperation with Panama
Xi calls for broader China-Panama legislative exchanges
China, Argentina eye new era of partnership
Scenery of ginkgo trees in SE China's Fujian
Pakistan's armed forces present air show, anti-terrorism drill
Early winter scenery across China
China's icebreaker Xuelong enters floating ice area in Southern Ocean

Title: Business Daily
BYJaindi Kisero
Sponsored by Mastercard
Sponsored by The Nairobi Hospital
Sponsored by Meru County government
Sponsored by Bazoom Group
BYGeorge Wachira
BYSimon Odhiambo
BYRufus Mwanyasi
BYRussel Storey
BYSALLY NJOGU
BYFred Nyawade
BYBill Odidi
BYEdna Mwenda
Nation Media Group © 2024

Title: UN envoy urges Uganda to mobilize AU on elimination of DR Congo rebels - China.org.cn
视频播放位置
KAMPALA, Dec. 4 (Xinhua) -- The UN special envoy for the Great Lakes region has urged Uganda to mobilize the African Union (AU) and regional bodies in efforts to eliminate negative forces in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).
Said Djinnit, in a statement issued by Uganda's ministry of foreign affairs, on Tuesday made the call while meeting Sam Kutesa, Uganda's minister of foreign affairs.
Djinnit said the AU and regional bodies like the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region and the Southern African Development Community should come together and propose solutions to wipe out the Allied Democratic Force (ADF) rebels and also repatriate the M23 fighters.
Kutesa said Uganda will cooperate but also called on the UN to coordinate the process of implementing the agreed-on position of mobilizing other countries to come on board.
The two officials agreed that negative forces in the region should be wiped out by February next year.
The meeting comes after another planned meeting between Uganda and DRC on a proposed joint operation to fight the ADF rebels holed up in eastern DRC.
Brig. Richard Karemire, Uganda's military spokesperson told Xinhua on Nov. 28 that the meeting was postponed to allow for more consultations.
ADF is a Ugandan rebel group causing mayhem in eastern DRC. The outfit in one of its recent deadly attacks killed eight UN peacekeepers and at least 12 DRC soldiers in North Kivu province.
The soldiers were killed during joint operations of the UN peacekeeping mission and DRC troops against the insurgents in Beni territory.
Several attacks by the ADF have forced thousands of Congolese to flee to neighboring Uganda. Enditem


Title: DR Congo News | DRC Latest News - NewsNow
Don't miss out! Get the day's top headlines delivered to your inbox
Stay informed. Sign up for a FREE NewsNow account and get our email alert of the day's top stories from the UK and around the world.
Stay informed. Subscribe to our email alert of the day's top stories from the UK and around the world.
We are sorry, but the email address you entered does not appear to be valid. Please check you have typed it correctly.
An existing account was found for this email address. Please click 'Sign in and Subscribe' to continue.
We don't have an account for this email address. Please click 'Create Account and Subscribe' to create a new account and subscribe to our email alerts.
By clicking 'Create Account and Subscribe' you agree to us creating an account for you and subscribing you to our newsletter in accordance with ourPrivacy PolicyandLegal Notice.Emails, which may be sent daily or less frequently, may include marketing elements. We will not share your email address with any third parties. You can unsubscribe whenever you want.
By clicking 'Sign in and Subscribe' you agree to us subscribing you to our newsletter in accordance with ourPrivacy PolicyandLegal Notice.Emails, which may be sent daily or less frequently, may include marketing elements. We will not share your email address with any third parties. You can unsubscribe whenever you want.
Email:(change email)
Use at least 8 characters, an uppercase and a lowercase letter, and a number or symbol.
Please ensure your password has at least 8 characters, an uppercase and a lowercase letter, and a number or symbol.
Your password was not recognised.
By clicking 'Create Account and Subscribe' you agree to us creating an account for you and subscribing you to our newsletter in accordance with ourPrivacy PolicyandLegal Notice.Emails, which may be sent daily or less frequently, may include marketing elements. We will not share your email address with any third parties. You can unsubscribe whenever you want.
By clicking 'Sign in and Subscribe' you agree to us subscribing you to our newsletter in accordance with ourPrivacy PolicyandLegal Notice.Emails, which may be sent daily or less frequently, may include marketing elements. We will not share your email address with any third parties. You can unsubscribe whenever you want.
Latest news on DR Congo: stay informed about the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC, Congo-Kinshasa), with timely updates on conflict, politics, humanitarian efforts, and regional developments.
The DRC is a nation at a pivotal point, facing ongoing challenges in areas like security and humanitarian needs. Keep up-to-date on the latest happenings in the capital, Kinshasa, as well as the evolving conflict with the M23 rebel group. We'll cover critical political events, upcoming elections, and how these developments impact the DRC's relationships with Rwanda, Uganda, and other neighbouring countries.
Whether you're interested in the DRC's complex political landscape, concerned about the humanitarian situation, or want to understand the broader regional dynamics, our dedicated NewsNow feed provides the essential coverage you need.
Before you can sign in, you must add a password to your account.
Please go back to NewsNow in your browser, sign in via the menu and then go to your settings page and enter a password.
After that, you can reopen the NewsNow app, and sign in again here with your new password.
Enter your password
No account? Sign up!
No account? Sign up!
Headline Density
Notifications

Title: UNHCR DR Congo Factsheet - 30 November 2018 - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWeb
DR Congo+ 10 more
533,387 refugees and asylum seekers in DRC, among them 52% women.
99.3% of refugees in DRC live in rural areas, and 74% live outside refugee camps or settlements.
2,949 refugees voluntary returned from DRC to Rwanda since January 2018.
Working with Partners
■ Together with the DRC Government, working closely with the National Commission for Refugees (CNR), UNHCR ensures international protection and delivery of multi assistance to persons of concern.
■ UNHCR works with 16 national and international implementing partners: ACTION AID,ACTED, ADES, ADSSE, AIDES, AIRD, ADRA, COOPI, CNR, DRC, INTERSOS, NRC,SAVE CONGO, TSF and WAR CHILD NL and WAR CHILD UK.
■ Coordination mechanisms: Within the cluster system, UNHCR leads the Protection Cluster and co-leads the Protection and Prevention component of the National Strategy on SGBV. UNHCR also leads the Shelter Working Group within the Shelter/NFI Cluster, co-leads the Camp Coordination and Camp Management (CCCM) Working Group jointly with IOM, and co-leads the National Cash Working Group jointly with UNOCHA.
CAR+ 2 more
CAR+ 2 more
CAR+ 2 more
DR Congo
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: 
Ebola spreads further to urban communities in DR Congo - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KINSHASA, Dec. 10 (Xinhua) -- The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) is witnessing the spread of Ebola to major cities, according to the international NGO Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF, or Doctors without Borders).
The MSF said on Dec. 3 that the city of Butembo, in the northeastern DRC with a population of nearly one million, is among the latest affected urban locations.
The World Health Organization (WHO) Thursday said 35 new cases were reported in the DRC as of Tuesday, while two new cases were reported in Butembo, eight in Katwa and two in Kalunguta, both in the vicinity of the city.
"We are very concerned by the epidemiological situation in the Butembo area. We now know that this outbreak will last and that we must increase our efforts to get it under control," said John Johnson, MSF project coordinator in Butembo.
As of Friday, data released by the WHO showed that the total number of Ebola cases in the DRC has reached 489, with 441 confirmed Ebola cases and 232 deaths.
The WHO expressed confidence that "the outbreak can be contained and brought to an end" with proven public health measures, as well as available tools like vaccines and therapeutics.
The DRC declared a new outbreak of the Ebola virus disease in North Kivu Province in August, the tenth outbreak in 40 years and the country's largest ever.
The dire situation in the DRC has led to cautionary measures on the part of its neighboring countries like Uganda, while the two countries have been coordinating medical efforts to jointly fight the hemorrhagic fever.
The Ebola virus is highly contagious and causes a range of symptoms including fever, vomiting, diarrhea, general discomfort or malaise and in many cases internal and external bleeding.
Mortality rates of Ebola fever, according to the WHO, are extremely high, with the human case fatality rate ranging from 50 percent to 89 percent, depending on the viral sub-type.
Snow scenery of Badain Jaran Desert in NW China's Gansu
China's internet service sector grows steadily in Jan.-Oct. period
Cold wave brings snowfall to Hongcun Village, China's Anhui
Norway's 2nd largest bridge built by Chinese firm opens to traffic
Plants covered by ice and snow at Wanbaoshan wood farm in China's Hunan
Macaques have fun in snow at Hongshan Forest Zoo in Nanjing, China's Jiangsu
Snow scenery in Wuzhen, east China's Zhejiang
China's Beibu Gulf attracts egrets to nest, reproduce due to ecological protection

Title: DRC Ebola total climbs to 444 with cases in several areas | CIDRAP
#ISurvivedEbola, Bill Megalos / Flickr cc
Over the weekend and through today, the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) reported 16 new Ebola cases in several locations in and around the main hot spots.
In other developments, health officials are starting to worry about the Ebola vaccine supply, especially if it's needed to curb widespread disease in one of the DRC's urban locations.
The 16 cases reflected in the health ministry's daily updates for Dec 1, 2, and 3 and were from eight different locations: Beni (5 cases), Katwa (3), Vuhovi (2), Kalunguta (2), Mutwanga (1), Komanda (1), Butembo (1), and Masereka (1).
Komanda is north of Beni and is in Ituri province, while the other locations are located south of the city. Katwa is located just east of Butembo, the largest urban setting for cases reported so far.
Twelve more deaths were reported, which involved 6 patients in Beni, 4 in Butembo, 1 in Butembo, and 1 in Komanda.
The latest developments lift the overall outbreak total to 444 cases, including 396 confirmed and 48 probable cases. The fatality count has reached 260 deaths.
Health officials are still investigating 72 suspected Ebola cases, with the number of people vaccinated reaching 39,277, roughly half of them from Beni, the outbreak's main hot spot.
The health ministry said in its Dec 2 report that health officials have decided to take more steps to involve women in the outbreak response to strengthen community engagement, given that they are pillars of their household and play an important role in commercial activities.
The agency said workshops for women's groups recently took place in Beni and Butembo, and for the next month, the new communicators will be paired with response teams in the field to help ease some of the community resistance that is still present in some neighborhoods.
In the DRC's latest outbreak, females have made up a large number of cases—61% of confirmed and probable cases, according to totals at the end of November.
In other developments, as Ebola continues to spread in the DRC with no end of the outbreak in sight, health officials are starting to worry if the Ebola vaccine supply would run short if the virus spreads more widely in urban locations like Butembo, where several cases have already been reported, or in Goma, North Kivu province's capital, Stat reported today.
The concerns about the vaccine supply were aired by Peter Salama, MD, the World Health Organization (WHO) deputy director-general for emergency preparedness and response. He told Stat that officials are regularly in touch with Merck, the vaccine's developer which has committed to maintain a 300,000-dose stockpile. As of yesterday, 42,000 doses has been used between the DRC's two Ebola outbreaks this year, an earlier event in Equateur province in the west and the current outbreak centered in North Kivu province in the east.
Salama told Stat that Beni's population is 400,000 and Butembo's numbers about 1 million, which would quickly exhaust vaccine supplies if the immunization strategy shifts from the current ring vaccination to a broader geographic approach, as some have suggested.
Merck told Stat that it takes about a year to produce a batch of vaccine, and while some of the stockpiled vaccine is already in vials, much is kept in bulk, which can take 4 to 5 months to put into vials.
See also:
Dec 1 DRCupdate
Dec 2 DRCupdate
Dec 3 DRCupdate
Dec 3 Statstory
Also, sequencing confirmed N1 and identified two HA mutations, one of which could affect vaccine development.
The findings come on the cusp of the Northern Hemisphere flu and respiratory syncytial virus seasons and rising US COVID-19 cases.
A study suggesting thatnirmatrelvir/ritonavir and molnupiravir don't prevent severe COVID-19 outcomes or long COVID is also being called into question.
Before March 2024, H5N1 had not been detected in 1,337 wastewater samples analyzed by the team.
The new findings come from the ongoing RECOVER trial and build on results seen in a 2023 trial.
While sequencing shows similarity to the virus in cattle, the epi investigation might not be able to pinpoint a source.
Wastewater levels are still high, but some indicators such as hospitalizations trended downward.
Wastewater levels are still high, but like other markers are showing a downward trend.
The CDC received reports of 22 more imported cases over the past week, raising the total to 74 from 5 states.
Tests are under way on samples from five contacts who reported symptoms.
Help make CIDRAP's vital work possible
CIDRAP - Center for Infectious Disease Research & PolicyResearch and Innovation Office, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN
Email us
© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights Reserved.The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer
Research and Innovation Office|Contact U of M|Privacy Policy
Newsletter subscribe

Title: Samaritan's Purse aiding Ebola victims in Africa | Markets Insider
As death count surpasses 300, Christian organization builds treatment centers, sends experts to help
CALGARY,Dec. 28, 2018/CNW/ - About 300 people have died and at least 200 more are fighting for their lives in theDemocratic Republic of the Congo(DRC), thanks to an outbreak of the highly contagious Ebola virus that Samaritan's Purse is doing all it can to stop.
About seven new cases of Ebola are being reported each day in the DRC, and the often-fatal virus is spreading into more areas of the impoverished African country.
Samaritan's Purse has almost completed constructing two Ebola treatment centers in the DRC. The non-profit Christian relief and development organization is also sending experienced medical specialists, including several fromCanada, to help operate the centers alongside locally hired staff.
One Samaritan's Purse Canada employee is already in the DRC—building special isolation units so Ebola patients can be treated without endangering other patients—and more will arrive this week.

"The outbreak was centralized in one area, but it's now moved to another region and to a hospital we support in the country," said the Samaritan's Purse employee in the DRC, who must remain anonymous to protect his privacy and safety. There have been fear-driven attacks at Ebola patient transfer sites.
This Ebola outbreak is the second-most deadly ever recorded, after the especially tragic 2014-15 version that killed more than 11,000 people inLiberiaand four other west African countries.
Samaritan's Purse played a leading role in bringing that outbreak under control inLiberiaby treating Ebola victims and by training Liberians to protect themselves from the virus. Despite strict precautions, two Samaritan's Purse medical employees including Dr.Kent Brantlycontracted Ebola, but survived.
"We gained a lot of expertise in fighting Ebola from our time inLiberia," saidDavid Bock, Samaritan's Purse Canada's international disaster response manager. "That knowledge and experience is making us more effective in helping the people of the DRC fight this dangerous virus."
Education is a key part of the battle, and Samaritan's Purse is training and equipping DRC health staff to go into Ebola-infected communities to teach people about the dangers of the virus. The relief organization is doing similar work inSouth Sudanin case the DRC outbreak crosses the border.

News Media interview availabilitySamaritan's Purse International Disaster Response ManagerDavid Bockis available for interviews at 403-870-1595 (cell) or 1-800-663-6500.
Donations NeededTo support Samaritan's Purse's medical relief efforts, please visit(click on "Donate") or call1-800-663-6500.
About Samaritan's Purse CanadaSamaritan's Purse is a Christian relief and development organization that takes its name fromJesus Christ'sbiblical story of the Good Samaritan. Like that Good Samaritan, who found a beaten man and helped restore him, we aid victims of war, disease, disaster, poverty, famine, and persecution. Besides medical relief, our work includes collecting and distributing gift-filled Operation Christmas Child shoeboxes, providing safe water, teaching vocational skills, and providing agricultural supplies and training to families in the developing world. Learn more at.
SOURCE  Samaritan's Purse Canada
Indices
Commodities
Currencies
Stocks