Title: USAID/DRC: Environment Partnerships Program - fundsforNGOs
fundsforNGOs
Grants and Resources for Sustainability
Deadline:24 October 2018
The United States Agency for International Development in DRC (USAID/DRC) is seeking concept papers from qualified organizations for the USAID/DRC funded Environment Partnerships Program (DRC EPP).
The purposes of the DRC EPP are to identify and partner with organizations and institutions who bring innovative ideas and resources of at least a 1:1 leverage to address jointly defined development challenges. Matching resources may include money, technologies, experience, expertise or other assets that Applicants can demonstrate as beneficial to tackling and resolving a development challenge.
Funding Information
Eligibility Criteria
How to Apply
Concept Paper submissions must be submitted via e-mail at the address given on the website.
For more information, please visitGrants.gov.
Funds for NGOsFunds for CompaniesFunds for MediaFunds for IndividualsSample Proposals
Contact usSubmit a GrantAdvertise, Guest Posting & BacklinksFight Fraud against NGOsAbout us
Terms of UseThird-Party Links & AdsDisclaimersCopyright PolicyGeneralPrivacy Policy
Premium Sign inPremium Sign upPremium Customer SupportPremium Terms of Service


©FUNDSFORNGOS LLC.fundsforngos.organdfundsforngospremium.comdomains and their subdomains are the property of FUNDSFORNGOS, LLC 140 Broadway 46th Floor, New York, NY 10005 United States.

Unless otherwise specified, this website is not affiliated with any of the organizations mentioned above. The material provided here is solely for informational purposes only without any warranty. Visitors are advised to use it at their own discretion. Read the full disclaimerhere.

Title: 
Uganda deports 46 Congolese fishermen arrested over suspected militia links - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KAMPALA, June 1 (Xinhua) -- Uganda has deported 46 Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) fishermen who were arrested over suspected links with a militia group that captured six Ugandans last month, said a military spokesman on Friday.
Brig. Richard Karemire told Xinhua that the Congolese fishermen have been handed to the DRC authorities at the common border town of Kasese late on Thursday.
The deportation came merely hours following a court decision in Kasese to release the fishermen and give back their fishing boats and engines, after each of them paid an 83-U.S.-dollar fine.
The fishermen were arrested on May 19 on Lake Edward, shared by Uganda and DRC. The authorities accused them of having links with the Mai Mai militia, a rebel group based in eastern DRC.
"This is a good will gesture by Uganda that should be reciprocated to by releasing the six Ugandan fishermen held in the DRC," said Karemire
"DRC authorities should exert influence or pressure that should lead to their freedom," he added.
Karemire said security agencies have stepped up water patrols on the Ugandan side of the shared lake to stop further abductions.
Fishery and security officials of both countries have previously agreed to conduct joint operations to prevent clashes.
KAMPALA, June 1 (Xinhua) -- Uganda has deported 46 Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) fishermen who were arrested over suspected links with a militia group that captured six Ugandans last month, said a military spokesman on Friday.
Brig. Richard Karemire told Xinhua that the Congolese fishermen have been handed to the DRC authorities at the common border town of Kasese late on Thursday.
The deportation came merely hours following a court decision in Kasese to release the fishermen and give back their fishing boats and engines, after each of them paid an 83-U.S.-dollar fine.
The fishermen were arrested on May 19 on Lake Edward, shared by Uganda and DRC. The authorities accused them of having links with the Mai Mai militia, a rebel group based in eastern DRC.
"This is a good will gesture by Uganda that should be reciprocated to by releasing the six Ugandan fishermen held in the DRC," said Karemire
"DRC authorities should exert influence or pressure that should lead to their freedom," he added.
Karemire said security agencies have stepped up water patrols on the Ugandan side of the shared lake to stop further abductions.
Fishery and security officials of both countries have previously agreed to conduct joint operations to prevent clashes.
Copyright © 2000 - 2018 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.

Title: 
DRC polls to be held on Dec. 23, foreign minister assures Angola - Xinhua | English.news.cn

LUANDA, June 19 (Xinhua) -- A special envoy from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) on Monday briefed Angolan President Joao Lourenco on the DRC's upcoming elections.
The DRC is committed to holding general elections on Dec. 23, DRC Foreign Minister Leonard She Okitundu told the press after meeting with Lourenco, who is also president of the Southern African Development Community's political cooperation, defense and security body.
Filing nominations for the legislative and presidential elections will kick off on July 24, the minister added.
Angolan Foreign Minister Manuel Augusto said it is in Angola's interests that the elections in the neighboring country take place without any constraints.
Initially marked for Dec. 31, 2017, the DRC elections were rescheduled for Dec. 23, 2018 after the opposition demanded the departure of Joseph Kabila, whose presidential mandate expired in 2016.
Constitutionally, Kabila is barred from running for another presidential term.
The former president has said he would comply with the electoral calendar.
According to media reports, dozens were killed in recent demonstrations in capital Kinshasa to stop Kabila from running for a third term.
LUANDA, June 19 (Xinhua) -- A special envoy from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) on Monday briefed Angolan President Joao Lourenco on the DRC's upcoming elections.
The DRC is committed to holding general elections on Dec. 23, DRC Foreign Minister Leonard She Okitundu told the press after meeting with Lourenco, who is also president of the Southern African Development Community's political cooperation, defense and security body.
Filing nominations for the legislative and presidential elections will kick off on July 24, the minister added.
Angolan Foreign Minister Manuel Augusto said it is in Angola's interests that the elections in the neighboring country take place without any constraints.
Initially marked for Dec. 31, 2017, the DRC elections were rescheduled for Dec. 23, 2018 after the opposition demanded the departure of Joseph Kabila, whose presidential mandate expired in 2016.
Constitutionally, Kabila is barred from running for another presidential term.
The former president has said he would comply with the electoral calendar.
According to media reports, dozens were killed in recent demonstrations in capital Kinshasa to stop Kabila from running for a third term.
Copyright © 2000 - 2018 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.

Title: Danang Rubber JSC to be fined nearly $80,000
DRC will have to pay VND1.796 billion ($79,140), including VND1.235 billion ($54,420) for the penalty and VND561 million ($24,720) for late payment.
The State Audit Office of Vietnam revised the commercial discount and selling price reduction that DRC has subtracted from its revenue in 2016. This adjustment led to a change in the company's profit.
DRC claimed that the commercial discount and selling price reduction are essential to promote sales. At the end of each term, DRC calculates the total amount of discounts based on the sales to each client. This is discounted from the next transaction with the client and the company produces an adjustment invoice.
Thereby, in late 2016 the company subtracted these amounts to ensure the accuracy of the valuation of its expenses in line with the principles of accountancy.
DRC sent recommendations to the State Audit Office of Vietnam which were not approved. Thus, the company has paid the penalty issued by the Danang Department of Taxation.
DRC, originally an American military retreading factory, has been continuously developing for over 35 years. In 2018, it set a target of VND4.592 trillion ($202.3 million) in revenue, up 20 per cent, and VND205 billion ($9 million) in pre-tax profit, down 1 per cent on-year.


What the stars mean:
★ Poor ★ ★ Promising ★★★ Good ★★★★ Very good ★★★★★ Exceptional
Vietnam Investment Review under the Ministry of Planning and Investment
Editor-in-Chief:Le Trong Minh
Deputy Editors-in-Chief:Bui Duc Hai, Nguyen Van Hong and Nguyen Quoc Viet
Editorial Board Member:Dang Tuan Khanh
Managing Editor:Nguyen Chi Mai
Advertisement|Contact us

Title: DRC Greece Fact Sheet 2018 - Greece | ReliefWeb
Greece+ 1 more
The Danish Refugee Council initiated its activities in Greece in November 2015 due to the unprecedented influx of displaced populations in need of international protection initially in Lesvos. Following new political developments and displacement dynamics in early 2016, DRC expanded its activities to the mainland to respond to the needs of people living in several sites across Greece. DRC works closely with the refugee communities, the Greek authorities and other humanitarian actors to ensure a protective environment for the refugees in Greece.
Protection
DRC conducts comprehensive protection monitoring activities which directly feed into effective responses with the provision of Individual Protection Assistance (IPA) to allow Persons with Specific Needs (PwSN) to quickly access commodities/ services (e.g. urgent transportation, interpretation, paramedical items, etc.) on an ad hoc basis and/or make referrals to appropriate actors. Protection monitoring is conducted by protection staff with relevant language skills (Arabic, Dari, Farsi, Pashto, Kurmanji) operating daily in all locations. DRC is co-chair of the Protection Working Goup in Athens.
Legal Aid
DRC addresses the legal needs of asylum seekers in DRC sites and urban centers, with legal status issues (family reunification, relocation) and enables access to their rights (civil documentation, birth registration, housing, employment, medical services). DRC systematic provision of legal aid includes group info sessions, individual legal counselling and individual legal representation. DRC participates in all NGO legal aid forums and chairs the Legal Aid Working Group on Lesvos.
Site Management Support (SMS)
DRC is the SMS agency in 9 refugee hosting sites: Skaramangas, Schisto, Lavrio, Koutsochero, Volos, Nea Kavala, Lagadikia, Veria and Alexandria. SMS programming involves supporting site management with essential functions relating to shelter allocation, information management and general coordination of activities. DRC provides for the daily care and maintenance of site infrastructure including plumbing and electrical works, pest control, desludging and waste management. DRC also manages a helpdesk at each site assisting residents with daily issues.
Community Mobilization
DRC organizes events, supports community committees, organizes sports & recreational activities, convenes awareness raising sessions, and provides transportation services to and from the sites (Koutsochero). DRC also organizes recreational activities for women and children through the operation of Women’s Safe Spaces and Child Friendly Spaces (CFS), with the overall aim to provide an inclusive and stimulating environment and access to structured play, recreation and leisure activities (Koutsochero, Lagadikia).
Safety and Security
DRC provides and facilitates the care and maintenance of fire safety equipment, perimeter fencing, lighting and any other related item needed.
Non-formal Education
DRC offers distinct non-formal education activities for school age children (7 to 15), youth (16-18) and adults in refugee hosting sites and urban centers where gaps have been identified. The activities are age-appropriate and conducted by qualified teachers and include Greek and English lessons, educational activities and excursions to places of interest.
World+ 38 more
World+ 45 more
World+ 25 more
Greece+ 13 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Free Classified Marketplace. Buy and Sell Anything in Nigeria | Anytin Classifieds
©Anytin.com
AvailableAds
©Anytin.com

Title: Glencore Is Getting Its DRC Affairs in Order - MetalMiner
Stuart Burns|Posted onJune 21, 2018|
EvenGlencore, with all its experience, contacts and resources, is finding the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) a challenging place to do business.Need buying strategies for steel? Try two free months of MetalMiner’s OutlookBut this month Glencore has made significant progress in getting its DRC house in order.Firstly, the miner reached a settlement with the state mining company,Gecamines, to wipe off more than $5.6 billion of debt the mines had been carrying as development costs. Glencore will not actually pay over that money, but by forgiving the debt servicing, costs are not accounted for before profits and dividends are agreed, effectively increasing the amount of money available for dividends to the DRC state.Secondly, Glencore has reached an agreement with its erstwhile partner in the DRC Dan Gertler, a shady character on the U.S. sanctions list who issaid to be a close friendof corrupt DRC President Joseph Kabila.Glencore paid Gertler $534 million for his shares inKatangaandMutandalast year. The company was obliged to pay him royalties from the mines, which he had previously acquired from Gecamines, the Financial Times reports. Gertler launched legal action against Glencore earlier this year when the firm failed to pay agreed royalties; he subsequently served freezing orders on Mutanda and Katanga mines in the DRC.According to the Financial Times, when Glencore established that Gertler had a watertight contract, it concluded it was cheaper to pay the royalties and agreed to pay €21 million in royalties from the Mutanda copper mine in DRC in 2018 and €16.5 million each quarter from theKamoto Copper Company, starting in 2019. Note the figures in Euros — because Gertler is on the U.S. sanctions list, they have to avoid U.S. Dollar payments and ensure no U.S. citizens are in the chain to meet compliance requirements.The Kabila regime may well be partial recipients of these royalties — Gertler clearly isn’t saying — but his original “ownership” of the mines probably wouldn’t have come without strings attached. Also, it’s not that keeping the payments in Euros completely protects Glencore. The firm is still facing a bribery probe with the U.K.’s serious fraud office over its dealings with Gertler.The Financial Times postulates Glencore needed to reach a settlement on its various DRC issues, as Chinese mining firms have been very active buying into DRC assets and are said to be interested in picking up what they could if Glencore were to lose its assets (either in court or via a state grab).Meanwhile, Glencore continues to tussle with the DRC government over a new mining code and to fight a rear-guard action with another Mutanda shareholder.Want to see an Aluminum Price forecast? Take a free trial!As we say, the DRC is a challenging place to do business, but Glencore is knocking down the barriers gradually and making progress.
Filed under:Company News
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Name
Email
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

AluminumAluminum MMIaluminum priceanti-dumpingArcelorMittalAutomotiveAutomotive MMIChinaCobaltConstruction MMICoppercopper MMIcopper priceGeneral MotorsGoldimportsIndiaIron OreL1L9LMEnickelNorsk HydroOiloil pricerare earthsrare earths MMIraw steels MMIRenewables MMIRio TintoSection 232Stainless MMIStainless Steelstainless steel priceSteelsteel importssteel pricesteel pricessteel productiontariffsTata SteelU.S.-China trade talksU.S. SteelWeek In ReviewZinc
MetalMiner helps buying organizations better manage margins, smooth commodity volatility, generate cost savings and negotiate prices for metal commodities. The company does this through a unique forecasting lens using artificial intelligence (AI), technical analysis (TA) and deep subject matter expertise.
©2024 MetalMiner  All rights reserved. |Cookie Consent Settings & Privacy Policy|Terms of Service

Title: Seven Facts About Genocide in the Democratic Republic of the Congo - The Borgen Project
TheDemocratic Republic of the Congo(DRC) has experienced ongoing violence since the mid-1990s. Although the DRC has the potential to be one of the richest countries in the world with its vast resources, parties and rebels in the DRC are taking and profiting from the resources and committing mass murder in the process. These are seven facts about genocide in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
These facts about genocide in the Democratic Republic of the Congo are only a portion of the complex situation in the DRC. With the country’s weak governance and many rebel groups, the DRC’s people have been constrained by too many years of violence and conflict. Nevertheless, by putting a stop tocorruption, human rights violations and rebel groups through continued international efforts, the DRC has the potential to be a rich and prosperous country.
– Emma MartinPhoto:Flickr
“The Borgen Project is an incredible nonprofit organization that is addressing poverty and hunger and working towards ending them.”