Title: Dramatic Repertory Company Presents the Maine Premiere FABULOSO 
Broadway + NYC
Broadway
Off-Broadway
Off-Off Broadway
Cabaret
Dance
Opera
Classical Music
United States
Eastern
Central
Western
San Francisco / Bay Area
Central Virginia
Los Angeles
Costa Mesa
Birmingham
Milwaukee, WI
West End
WEST END
UK Regional
International
Canada
Australia / New Zealand
Europe
Asia
Latin America
Africa / Middle East
Entertainment
TV/Movies
Music
POPULAR

Dramatic Repertory Company (Keith PowellBeyland, Artistic Director) presents the Maine Premiere FABULOSO byJohn Kolvenbach, directed by Daniel Burson, playing March 8 - 17, 2019. This premiere production will be presented at the Studio Theater at Portland Stage, 25A Forest Ave.
The production includes DRC veteransPeter Brown(Equivocation, DRC),Christopher Holt(Year of the Rooster, DRC), Janice O'Rourke (The (Curious Case of the) Watson Intelligence, DRC), and Bess Welden (Gidion's Knot, DRC), directed by Daniel Burson (A Number, DRC).
In this unique DRC production, the actors will alternate roles during the performance schedule.
Kate works in a bank. Teddy is an uninspired kids' soccer coach. They are feeling trapped in an ordinary apartment and their ordinary marriage. Then Teddy's long-lost friend Arthur arrives after a 20-year absence. He bursts into their home with nonstop games, ruses, schemes, not to mention knives, songs, cocktails for all, and his wildly dramatic fiancée, Samantha. FABULOSO is a madcap and surprisingly touching farce about the pleasures of bedlam and the far-from-ordinary feeling of being needed. DRC's production of this zany comedy even more delightful chaos: the cast will switch roles each night.
"This high-energy farce is good for more than laughs. It succeeds where so many fail because of an unusually effective emotional component that's just touching enough. It's perfect ballast for the madcap farcical elements, which are executed with precision and a pounding heart. FABULOSO is near-perfect summer entertainment. PlaywrightJohn Kolvenbachkeeps you guessing while you're laughing. He's a playwright's playwright, sending his well-drawn characters down a carefully plotted structure that reveals its craft only in hindsight." - Eye Weekly (Canada)
Now Playing in March 8 - 17, 2019 at the Studio Theater at Portland Stage, 25A Forest Ave. March 8 - 10 at 7:30pm, March 12 - 17, 2018 at 7:30pm. Tickets for Fabuloso range from $10 - $25 with Premium Tickets also available. Tickets are available now from Brown Paper Tickets --online atwww.dramaticrep.orgor by phone at 800-838-3006.
DRC will also continue its FuturePatrons program in 2018/2019. With FuturePatrons, theatre-goers 25 and under can see DRC shows for FREE!! Theatre is habit forming, and DRC wants to be a catalyst. DRCs innovative program strives to help build the next generation of theatre-goers. FuturePatron tickets are available day-of only, and require government-issued photo ID as proof of age. Seating is first-come, first-served and subject to availability.
Dramatic Repertory Company's Board of Directors, Bess Welden (President), Meg Anderson,Peter Brown, Marjorie Gallant andSally Wood.
Dramatic Repertory Company aims to make a dramatic difference in the community. DRC continues to establish a burgeoning reputation for provocative and professional productions. DRC intends to produce new and overlooked works that otherwise may never be seen in Maine, as well as provide fresh perspectives on classic works.
www.dramaticrep.org
The Monmouth Community Players has announced the cast of their fall production of Dracula.
A hush fell over the audience at the Hill Center last March when Good Theater’s Executive/Artistic Director, Brain P. Allen, concluded his curtain speech with the news that the current  production of A MAN OF NO IMPORTANCE would be the last for the GOOD THEATER on Munjoy Hill. The theatre company, which was celebrating more than twenty years as the resident company of what had formerly been known as The St. Lawrence Center for the Arts, had lost its home, and Portland was about to lose one of its most vibrant professional theatres.
The Manhattan Short Film Festival has announced its lineup for 2024, featuring films from around the world.
Mad Horse Theatre will present WITCH by Jen Silverman on October 10th, marking the start of its 39th season. Learn how to purchase tickets.
Videos
Maine SHOWS
Recommended For You
Sign up for announcements, and exclusive discounts on tickets to your favorite shows!
© 2024 - CopyrightWisdom Digital Media, all rights reserved.Privacy Policy

Title: Fresher Finance Assistant International NGO Jobs - Danish Refugee Council (DRC)



Job Title:  Legal Assistant (2 Fresher Diploma Jobs)   Organisation: ALIGHT…
Job Title:  Regional Sales Supervisor Organisation:Liz Logistics Duty Station: Kampala,…
Job Title:  Social Media Assistant (Volunteer) No Experience Jobs Organisation:…
Job Title:   Branch Manager – Masaka Organisation: Unifi Africa Duty Station: Masaka,…
Job Title:  Account Manager Organisation: Konvergenz Network Solutions Duty Station:…
Terms of Reference – Independent Financial Audit of Handicap International…

For employers, please send your adverts and inquiries to ugandanjobline@gmail.com
Popular JobsConsultancy – TOR – Independent Financial Audit of Handicap International Federation East Africa Region (EAR)-Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda.9 min readTerms of Reference – Independent Financial Audit of Handicap InternationalRead MoreFresh Graduate Engineering Jobs – Technical Trainee – Xclusive Uganda2 min readJob Title:  Technical Trainee (Fresh Graduate Engineering Jobs) Organisation: XclusiveRead More3 Collection Call Centre Agent Job Opportunities – Tugende4 min readJob Title:  Collection Call Centre Agent (3 Job Opportunities) Organisation:Read More197 No Experience Tax Officer Job Opportunities – Uganda Revenue Authority (URA)5 min readJob Title:  Tax Officer (197 No Experience Jobs) Organisation: UgandaRead More150 Officer Domestic Taxes Job Opportunities – Uganda Revenue Authority (URA)4 min readJob Title:  Officer Domestic Taxes (150 Jobs) Organisation: Uganda RevenueRead More
Terms of Reference – Independent Financial Audit of Handicap InternationalRead More
Job Title:  Technical Trainee (Fresh Graduate Engineering Jobs) Organisation: XclusiveRead More
Job Title:  Collection Call Centre Agent (3 Job Opportunities) Organisation:Read More
Job Title:  Tax Officer (197 No Experience Jobs) Organisation: UgandaRead More
Job Title:  Officer Domestic Taxes (150 Jobs) Organisation: Uganda RevenueRead More




Title: ECHO Factsheet – The Democratic Republic of Congo – (Last updated 13/02/2019) - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWeb
DR Congo+ 5 more
FACTS & FIGURES
Nearly 13 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance
More than 2 million new internally displaced people and 998 000 returnees in 2018
810 000 refugees from the DRC in neighbouring countries and 537 000 refugees from the region in the DRC
Nearly 13 million people affected by severe food insecurity
More than 1 million children under five who are severely malnourished (UNOCHA, UNHCR and UNICEF)
EU humanitarian aid:More than €80 million in 2018
Introduction
The humanitarian response plan for the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) remains the second largest worldwide. Nearly 13 million people in the DRC are in need of humanitarian assistance. The ongoing Ebola virus disease outbreak is not yet under control and has become the second largest outbreak in history.
What are the needs?
With nearly 13 million people suffering from severe food insecurity (critical lack of consistent access to enough food), the Democratic Republic of Congo faces the second largest food crisis in the world. According to UNICEF, more than one million children under five years of age in the DRC suffer from severe acute malnutrition, which is a life-threatening condition.
For the past decades, eastern DRC has seen inter-communal violence and militia attacks resulting in mass exodus and a particular pattern of internal displacement movements, known as déplacements pendulaires, where people carry on with their activities at their home area during the day but then retreat to safer places for the night. In 2018, there were over three million people in the DRC who were either internally displaced or who had just returned to their, often destroyed, place of origin. The DRC itself is host to more than 537 000 refugees who arrive mainly from Rwanda, the Central African Republic, and South Sudan.
With its weak health system, the DRC is prone to epidemics, such as cholera, measles or malaria. The tenth Ebola outbreak in the DRC was declared in August 2018. The disease has since claimed over 500 lives in the conflict-affected provinces of North Kivu and Ituri.
DR Congo+ 1 more
DR Congo+ 3 more
DR Congo
DR Congo+ 1 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Consortia Coordinator Non-profit Careers - Danish Refugee Council (DRC)



Job Title:  Client Relations Manager Organisation: SautiPlus Media Hub Duty…
Job Title:  Head of Credit Policy & Portfolio Management Organisation: ABSA…
Job Title:   Lead, Program Planning and Monitoring Organisation: Mastercard Foundation Duty…
Job Title:  Manager Cyber Security Assurance Organization: Centenary Bank Duty Station: Kampala,…
Job Title:   Business Banker Organisation: Bank of Africa Uganda Duty…
Job Title:   Relationship Manager, SME Organisation: Bank of Africa Uganda…

For employers, please send your adverts and inquiries to ugandanjobline@gmail.com
Popular JobsFresher Order Fulfillment and Dispatch Officer Jobs – Mapenzi Grill Restaurant4 min readJob Title:  Order Fulfillment and Dispatch Officer Organisation: Mapenzi GrillRead More5 Unit Manager Jobs – ICEA LION Life Assurance3 min readJob Title:    Unit Manager (5 Job Vacancies) Organisation: ICEA LIONRead MoreFresher Membership Relations Officer Jobs – United Nations Staff Savings and Credit Cooperative Society Limited (UNS-SACCO)6 min readJob Title:       Membership Relations Officer (MRO) (Fresher Jobs) Organisation: United NationsRead MoreSecurity Coordinator – Oil & Gas Jobs – NFT Consult Limited4 min readJob Title:  Security Coordinator – Oil & Gas Organisation: NFT ConsultRead MoreProcess Control Engineer (Re-advertized) Jobs – Nile Breweries2 min readJob Title:   Process Control Engineer (Re-advertized) Organisation: Nile Breweries Limited DutyRead More
Job Title:  Order Fulfillment and Dispatch Officer Organisation: Mapenzi GrillRead More
Job Title:    Unit Manager (5 Job Vacancies) Organisation: ICEA LIONRead More
Job Title:       Membership Relations Officer (MRO) (Fresher Jobs) Organisation: United NationsRead More
Job Title:  Security Coordinator – Oil & Gas Organisation: NFT ConsultRead More
Job Title:   Process Control Engineer (Re-advertized) Organisation: Nile Breweries Limited DutyRead More




Title: Newly-elected Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) President Felix Tshisekedi turns to Kenya for badly needed skills and trade  | Pulse Nigeria
Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) has struck a deal with Kenya to its train civil servants.
On Wednesday, newly-elected Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) President Felix Tshisekedi, who is in Kenya for a two-day official visit met with Kenyan counterpart Uhuru Kenyatta and held bilateral talks. The two leaders are said to have explored ways and means of strengthening relations between the two countries.
President Kenyatta said Kenya was committed to helping DRC achieve political stability having learnt valuable lessons from its past political tensions, which the country is willing to share with others.
“We will continue to help you achieve peace and stability because we have had similar experience which we can share. Our country has been able to calm down political temperatures through the famous Building Bridges Initiative,”Mr Kenyatta assured his counterpart.
He added that Kenya will partner with DRC in capacity building by offering training opportunities to Congolese public servants in Kenya’s training institutions such as the Kenya School of Government.
“Our partnership will ensure that the countries achieve our founding fathers' dream of a stable, secure and prosperous African continent. We are ready to partner in building infrastructure, sharing skills in the extractive industry and in many other areas of mutual benefit,”President Kenyatta said.
On his part, President Tshisekedi thanked Mr Kenyatta for being a true friend of DRC as demonstrated by his visit to the country to attend the Congolese leader's inauguration ceremony.
President Tshisekedi also acknowledged the important role played by Mombasa port to the economic well-being of DRC, saying his country is willing to join the East African Community so as to deepen its economic ties with the region.
President Tshisekedi also met with former Prime Minister Raila Odinga who urged him to unite the country by embracing players from diverse backgrounds, asking him not to allow cracks that could be exploited by foreign interests.
President Tshisekedi’s visit comes barely two weeks after his inauguration which was attended by Mr Kenyatta, the only foreign head of State present at the function.
Mr Odinga also attended the swearing-in ceremony in Kinshasa.
Welcome to the Pulse Community! We will now be sending you a daily newsletter on news, entertainment and more.   Also join us across all of our other channels - we love to be connected!
Eyewitness? Submit your stories now via social or:
Email:eyewitness@pulse.ng
Welcome to the Pulse Community! We will now be sending you a daily newsletter on news, entertainment and more. Also join us across all of our other channels - we love to be connected!  Also join us across all of our other channels - we love to be connected!

Title: Return counselling: Supporting informed decision-making through impartial, independent and non-directive counselling (February 2019) - World | ReliefWeb
World
A policy brief on best practices for return counselling based on the Danish Refugee Council’s experiences.
Since the Return Directive1 was adopted in 2008, the challenge of making returns more effective has been on the political agenda. In September 2018, the European Commission presented a recast of the Return Directive2 as an addition to the recast of the Common European Asylum System, which are currently being negotiated by the European Parliament and Council of the European Union.
In November 2018, European Council for Refugees and Exiles (ECRE) published its comments on the recast of the Return Directive3 . As an ECRE member, the Danish Refugee Council (DRC) shares the concerns of ECRE that the Commission proposal lowers safe guards for third-country nationals and thus can result in increased use of detention and violations of fundamental rights.
As a humanitarian organisation, DRC advocates for the right of rejected asylum seekers to return in safety, dignity and with due respect for their fundamental rights, as such the use of force should be avoided. Since the beginning of the 1980’s, DRC has been providing counselling to asylum seekers through all stages of the asylum procedure, including after a final rejection of the asylum application. Based on this experience, DRC has found that rejected asylum seekers are more capable of relating to their own situation, if they are included in the return process and experience it as being dignified.
New legislation should always be based on evidence and on best practices to ensure good lawmaking. With this policy brief, DRC wants to provide input to the development of Member States’ return policy, which encourages a dignified return procedure that takes into consideration the individual needs of the rejected asylum seekers.
DRC believes that impartial, independent and non-directive return counselling should always be part of an inclusive, dignified and sustainable return procedure. With this policy brief, DRC calls for the EU co-legislators to incorporate return counselling in all return procedures. The input is based on DRC’s extensive hands-on experience with return counselling and extensive knowledge of the important elements, which can facilitate good return counselling.
This paper contains a description of DRC’s experiences with return counselling, DRC’s positions on best practices for return counselling and a call for Member States to integrate return counselling in the return procedures.
World
World+ 3 more
World
World
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Fact Sheet: The World Bank Support to the 10th Ebola Outbreak in Democratic Republic of Congo - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWeb
DR Congo
CONTEXT
Since August 1, 2018, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) has been fighting its 10th Ebola outbreak in the North Kivu and Ituri provinces bordering Uganda, South Sudan and Rwanda.  The World Bank is supporting the DRC government as it leads the fight to contain the Ebola outbreak, which poses a deadly threat to human life not just in the DRC but also to surrounding countries.
Having successfully contained previous outbreaks, the DRC authorities and their international partners have strong experience in outbreak response. This time however, it has been complicated thanks to the security situation and more recently, political uncertainty. Community resistance to the response activities persist, while armed conflict in some areas creates a volatile security situation.
The World Bank’s Role in the 10th OutbreakFinancing the Response Effort
The World Bank is the main financial supporter of the DRC Ebola response. Thanks to the support of the World Bank and thePandemic Emergency Financing Facility(PEF), unlike in previous Ebola outbreaks, financing has not been a constraint to mounting an effective response despite extremely challenging circumstances.
The Bank has been financing over sixty percent of the current Ebola response effort through IDA grants since the outbreak started, the rest being covered by other development partners.
An escalated response is planned from February to July 2019, which is estimated to cost $148 million. An announcement about additional WB financing to support this escalated response will be made very soon.
The PEF has been activated to support this escalated response. OnFebruary 19, 2019—three days after receiving a request for financial support from the government of the DRC—the PEF Steering Body approved $20 million in financing for escalated response efforts in the provinces of North Kivu and Ituri.
What World Bank financing has supported since August 2018
World Bank financing has enabled a robust, fully rounded Ebola response by supporting three areas:
urgent outbreak response efforts, technical support and proactive pandemic preparedness investments in DRC as well as neighboring countries.
Urgent Outbreak Response Efforts
These include:
The establishment and operations of one of the Ebola treatment centers in Goma
Free health care services at all health facilities in the health zones such as Beni, and Butembo affected by the outbreak, where health centers have seen a three to five-fold uptake in utilization of services as a result of Bank support. Through a contracting mechanism, the PDSS provides funding to subsidize fully a package of basic health services to remove financial barriers to access health care services and quicker detection of suspect Ebola cases. In addition to the funding, the PDSS also provides the health facilities with essential medicines.
Hazard pay for about 60 percent of all frontline health responders – which is 1,800 Ebola responders supporting the implementation of the SRPs.
Critical healthcare and surveillance facilities:  including treatment centers, triage centers in Butembo and the functioning of laboratories in strategic areas and tightening surveillance in zones vulnerable to transmission due to population movement
Community engagement efforts: risk communication and social mobilization which are crucial to build community support, limit transmission and ensure that new cases of the disease are reported immediately and treated.
Technical Support
World Bank technical experts have worked with the DRC Government since the start of the outbreak. They have supported development of various Ebola Strategic Response Plans (SRPs), setting guidelines and procedures around hazard pay, and support the development of the Center of Excellence for Ebola (CEE). The CEE is expected to serve as a national public health institution for DRC which will also play a regional role in the context of Ebola outbreaks.
Pandemic Preparedness in DRC and Neighboring Countries
The current Ebola response builds on several years of Bank support to DRC to build a strong health system which has enabled DRC to take a strong leadership role in the response effort.
A Neighborhood Preparedness Plan, as well as financing, are in place for the nine countries that border the DRC.   The World Bank has funding available in Burundi, CAR, Uganda, and through its East Africa Public Health Laboratory Networking Project which provides timely laboratory data for disease diagnosis and surveillance.
The Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility
ThePandemic Emergency Financing Facility, or PEF, is the only innovative financing mechanism created specifically to combat pandemics which now covers all 77 IDA countries. It was created by the World Bank in partnership with Japan, Germany and Australia, and the World Health Organization.
DR Congo+ 1 more
DR Congo
DR Congo
DR Congo+ 1 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Ebola Escalated Response: US$80 Million Commitment to the Democratic Republic of the Congo - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWeb
DR Congo
World Bank Group and Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility support government and partners to contain the outbreak
WASHINGTON, February 28, 2019— The World Bank Group and the Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility (PEF) have approved a total of up to US$80 million in grants to support over half the estimated cost of an escalated six-month Ebola response effort being mounted by the government of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and international partners. The escalated campaign is estimated to cost about US$148 million and covers the period from February through the end of July 2019.
The World Bank Group today has made US$60 million of grant financing available through the International Development Association (IDA), its fund for low-income countries.
The Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility (PEF), an innovative financing mechanism created by the World Bank Group together with Japan, Germany and Australia, approved up to a $20 million grant from its Cash Window within three days of receiving a request from the DRC government. Half of this amount will be released immediately to support frontline response, with the balance to be released within a month or sooner according to operational need.
“This 10th Ebola outbreak has been the worst that our country has faced so far, and this renewed financial commitment from the World Bank Group and the PEF allows us and our partners to concentrate fully on fighting Ebola and protecting the health of our citizens.” said Dr Oly Ilunga Kalenga, Minister of Health of the DRC. “The situation is very challenging, but we are determined to increase our already strong efforts to contain the outbreak.”
“Our priority is to halt this outbreak of Ebola and limit the devastation it causes to families and communities. Today’s commitment ensures that lifesaving work can be urgently scaled up, and that lack of funding is not a constraint,” said World Bank Group Interim President and CEO Kristalina Georgieva. “Our investments today also help DRC and its neighbors to build strong health systems that protect their people and economies from the long-term damage that pandemics can cause.”
The DRC has been fighting the current Ebola outbreak since August 2018, and over 480 deaths have been confirmed in the North Kivu and Ituri provinces, as of this week. The World Bank has so far provided the majority of the financing for the Ebola response efforts from August 2018 through February 2019. It has also provided technical support to the strengthen the DRC health system and invested in pandemic preparedness in the nine countries bordering the DRC in case the outbreak crosses borders.
“The urgent needs of this latest outbreak in the DRC continue to illustrate the importance of the PEF in providing quick and reliable surge financing for health emergencies,” said Dr. Gerd Müller, Minister for Economic Cooperation and Development, Germany. “We are committed to working with all partners to ensure a swift and comprehensive response effort.”
“As the first international partner to contribute to the creation of the PEF, we continue to believe that it offers a robust financing mechanism for pandemic response,” said Vice Minister of Finance for International Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Japan, Masatsugu Asakawa. “The rapid release of funds upon the request from the DRC towards the current Ebola outbreak ensures that we can adequately fight this infectious threat.”
"Our support for the PEF comes from Australia’s determination to help reduce the risk of global pandemics and improve health security for all,” said the Head of the Centre for Health Security in Australia, Mr. Robin Davies. “Supporting this escalated Ebola response ensures that the PEF continues to fulfill its mission.”
The PEF’s cash window was first activated in May 2018 during the DRC’s 9th Ebola outbreak in Equateur province, which was successfully contained within weeks. In addition to the cash window, the PEF has a $425 million insurance window, consisting of bonds placed on the capital markets, which could be activated if a larger, multi-country response were to be required. The World Health Organization (WHO) has not yet declared the current Ebola outbreak in DRC a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC).
Contacts
In WashingtonAnu Palan+1 (240) 565-4078apalan@worldbank.org
For Broadcast RequestsMorgan Graham+1 (202) 458-7097mgraham2@worldbankgroup.org
DR Congo
DR Congo
World+ 40 more
DR Congo
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Fresher Livelihoods Assistant - Forestry NGO Jobs - Danish Refugee Council (DRC)



Job Title:    Field Research Assistant, West Nile (100 Fresher Data…
Job Title:  Baseline Evaluation Enumerator (20 Data Collection Jobs) Organisation:…
Job Title:  Graduate Internship Program (GRIP) 19 No Experience Jobs…
Job Title:  Order Fulfillment and Dispatch Officer Organisation: Mapenzi Grill…
Job Title:  Program Director Organisation: Habitat for Humanity Uganda (HFHU) Duty…
Job Title:   Monitoring and Evaluation Officer (United Nations Volunteer Jobs)…

For employers, please send your adverts and inquiries to ugandanjobline@gmail.com
Popular JobsFresher Order Fulfillment and Dispatch Officer Jobs – Mapenzi Grill Restaurant4 min readJob Title:  Order Fulfillment and Dispatch Officer Organisation: Mapenzi GrillRead More5 Unit Manager Jobs – ICEA LION Life Assurance3 min readJob Title:    Unit Manager (5 Job Vacancies) Organisation: ICEA LIONRead MoreFresher Membership Relations Officer Jobs – United Nations Staff Savings and Credit Cooperative Society Limited (UNS-SACCO)6 min readJob Title:       Membership Relations Officer (MRO) (Fresher Jobs) Organisation: United NationsRead MoreSecurity Coordinator – Oil & Gas Jobs – NFT Consult Limited4 min readJob Title:  Security Coordinator – Oil & Gas Organisation: NFT ConsultRead MoreProcess Control Engineer (Re-advertized) Jobs – Nile Breweries2 min readJob Title:   Process Control Engineer (Re-advertized) Organisation: Nile Breweries Limited DutyRead More
Job Title:  Order Fulfillment and Dispatch Officer Organisation: Mapenzi GrillRead More
Job Title:    Unit Manager (5 Job Vacancies) Organisation: ICEA LIONRead More
Job Title:       Membership Relations Officer (MRO) (Fresher Jobs) Organisation: United NationsRead More
Job Title:  Security Coordinator – Oil & Gas Organisation: NFT ConsultRead More
Job Title:   Process Control Engineer (Re-advertized) Organisation: Nile Breweries Limited DutyRead More




Title: With new cases, Katwa remains epicenter of Ebola outbreak | CIDRAP
UNMEER/Martine Perret/ Flickr cc
More cases recorded today and over the weekend underscore that Katwa, a city in the eastern reaches of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), remains the current epicenter of the 7-month-long Ebola outbreak in North Kivu and Ituri provinces.
On Saturday and Sunday, the DRC's health ministry said there were two new Ebola cases in Katwa, and one new case in Vuhovi. Today, the ministry reported two new cases, one each in Katwa and Butembo.
The new cases raise the outbreak total to 840 cases, of which 775 are confirmed and 65 are probable. There have been 537 deaths during the outbreak, and 185 suspected cases are still under investigation.
Seven deaths were recorded over the last 3 days, including three community deaths in Katwa, Butembo, and Vuhovi. Community deaths, which occur outside of a hospital or Ebola treatment center, raise the risk of Ebola transmission.
Since August, a total of 80,989 people in the DRC and neighboring countries have been vaccinated with Merck's candidate VSV-EBOV vaccine, including 20,593 in Katwa.
On Friday, Martin Fayulu, the leader of the Lamuka party, visited Butembo and called for the observance of hygiene measures at a rally.
Fayulu contests the results of the late-December presidential election which saw him narrowly losing to Felix Tshisekedi, and considers himself president-elect of the DRC. Fayulu also visited a treatment center in Katwa and praised local health workers for their job.
The visit took place against the backdrop against growing violence in the region, which prompted Doctors Without Borders (MSF) to withdraw nonessential aid workers from Masisi, in North Kivu province.
According to Agence France-Presse (AFP), MSF suspended work in the region after gunmen abducted two staff members on Feb 8. Though the region is not currently the site of any Ebola activity, the area is only 100 kilometers from Goma, the capital of North Kivu.
See also:
Feb 17 DRCupdate
Feb 16 DRCupdate
Feb 18 DRCupdate
Feb 18 AFPstory
Also, sequencing confirmed N1 and identified two HA mutations, one of which could affect vaccine development.
The findings come on the cusp of the Northern Hemisphere flu and respiratory syncytial virus seasons and rising US COVID-19 cases.
A study suggesting thatnirmatrelvir/ritonavir and molnupiravir don't prevent severe COVID-19 outcomes or long COVID is also being called into question.
Before March 2024, H5N1 had not been detected in 1,337 wastewater samples analyzed by the team.
The new findings come from the ongoing RECOVER trial and build on results seen in a 2023 trial.
While sequencing shows similarity to the virus in cattle, the epi investigation might not be able to pinpoint a source.
Wastewater levels are still high, but some indicators such as hospitalizations trended downward.
Wastewater levels are still high, but like other markers are showing a downward trend.
The CDC received reports of 22 more imported cases over the past week, raising the total to 74 from 5 states.
Tests are under way on samples from five contacts who reported symptoms.
Help make CIDRAP's vital work possible
CIDRAP - Center for Infectious Disease Research & PolicyResearch and Innovation Office, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN
Email us
© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights Reserved.The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer
Research and Innovation Office|Contact U of M|Privacy Policy
Newsletter subscribe

Title: BERNAMA.com Health - 
NEW YORK, Feb 21 (Bernama) -- The United Nations (UN) Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) reported 537 deaths among the 844 cases of Ebola in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) since last August.According Xinhua news agency report, quoting Stephane Dujarric, spokesman for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, OCHA reported Wednesday that the DRC Ministry of Health last week requested US$147 million to cover "all aspects of the (Ebola) response for six months.""As of 18 February, 844 cases and 537 deaths had been reported since the beginning of the outbreak in August 2018," Dujarric told reporters in a regular briefing. "Some 278 people have recovered from Ebola.""The (DRC) Ministry of Health, the UN World Health Organisation and their partners continue to respond to all alerts in the affected areas, and to scale up preparedness in non-affected health zones and in neighboring countries," he said. "Serious security incidents and community mistrust continue to hamper the response to Ebola."While he did not elaborate on conditions in the eastern outbreak area, the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy (CIDRAP) of the University of Minnesota said the latest cases "underscore that Katwa, a city in the eastern reaches of the DRC, remains the current epicenter."The CIDRAP also said that since August, over 80,000 people in the DRC and neighbouring countries have been vaccinated.The center also reported security concerns over growing violence in the region.-- BERNAMA
NEW YORK, Feb 21 (Bernama) -- The United Nations (UN) Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) reported 537 deaths among the 844 cases of Ebola in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) since last August.According Xinhua news agency report, quoting Stephane Dujarric, spokesman for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, OCHA reported Wednesday that the DRC Ministry of Health last week requested US$147 million to cover "all aspects of the (Ebola) response for six months.""As of 18 February, 844 cases and 537 deaths had been reported since the beginning of the outbreak in August 2018," Dujarric told reporters in a regular briefing. "Some 278 people have recovered from Ebola.""The (DRC) Ministry of Health, the UN World Health Organisation and their partners continue to respond to all alerts in the affected areas, and to scale up preparedness in non-affected health zones and in neighboring countries," he said. "Serious security incidents and community mistrust continue to hamper the response to Ebola."While he did not elaborate on conditions in the eastern outbreak area, the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy (CIDRAP) of the University of Minnesota said the latest cases "underscore that Katwa, a city in the eastern reaches of the DRC, remains the current epicenter."The CIDRAP also said that since August, over 80,000 people in the DRC and neighbouring countries have been vaccinated.The center also reported security concerns over growing violence in the region.-- BERNAMA
According Xinhua news agency report, quoting Stephane Dujarric, spokesman for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, OCHA reported Wednesday that the DRC Ministry of Health last week requested US$147 million to cover "all aspects of the (Ebola) response for six months.""As of 18 February, 844 cases and 537 deaths had been reported since the beginning of the outbreak in August 2018," Dujarric told reporters in a regular briefing. "Some 278 people have recovered from Ebola.""The (DRC) Ministry of Health, the UN World Health Organisation and their partners continue to respond to all alerts in the affected areas, and to scale up preparedness in non-affected health zones and in neighboring countries," he said. "Serious security incidents and community mistrust continue to hamper the response to Ebola."While he did not elaborate on conditions in the eastern outbreak area, the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy (CIDRAP) of the University of Minnesota said the latest cases "underscore that Katwa, a city in the eastern reaches of the DRC, remains the current epicenter."The CIDRAP also said that since August, over 80,000 people in the DRC and neighbouring countries have been vaccinated.The center also reported security concerns over growing violence in the region.-- BERNAMA
"As of 18 February, 844 cases and 537 deaths had been reported since the beginning of the outbreak in August 2018," Dujarric told reporters in a regular briefing. "Some 278 people have recovered from Ebola.""The (DRC) Ministry of Health, the UN World Health Organisation and their partners continue to respond to all alerts in the affected areas, and to scale up preparedness in non-affected health zones and in neighboring countries," he said. "Serious security incidents and community mistrust continue to hamper the response to Ebola."While he did not elaborate on conditions in the eastern outbreak area, the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy (CIDRAP) of the University of Minnesota said the latest cases "underscore that Katwa, a city in the eastern reaches of the DRC, remains the current epicenter."The CIDRAP also said that since August, over 80,000 people in the DRC and neighbouring countries have been vaccinated.The center also reported security concerns over growing violence in the region.-- BERNAMA
"The (DRC) Ministry of Health, the UN World Health Organisation and their partners continue to respond to all alerts in the affected areas, and to scale up preparedness in non-affected health zones and in neighboring countries," he said. "Serious security incidents and community mistrust continue to hamper the response to Ebola."While he did not elaborate on conditions in the eastern outbreak area, the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy (CIDRAP) of the University of Minnesota said the latest cases "underscore that Katwa, a city in the eastern reaches of the DRC, remains the current epicenter."The CIDRAP also said that since August, over 80,000 people in the DRC and neighbouring countries have been vaccinated.The center also reported security concerns over growing violence in the region.-- BERNAMA
While he did not elaborate on conditions in the eastern outbreak area, the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy (CIDRAP) of the University of Minnesota said the latest cases "underscore that Katwa, a city in the eastern reaches of the DRC, remains the current epicenter."The CIDRAP also said that since August, over 80,000 people in the DRC and neighbouring countries have been vaccinated.The center also reported security concerns over growing violence in the region.-- BERNAMA
The CIDRAP also said that since August, over 80,000 people in the DRC and neighbouring countries have been vaccinated.The center also reported security concerns over growing violence in the region.-- BERNAMA
The center also reported security concerns over growing violence in the region.-- BERNAMA
-- BERNAMA

KUCHING, Dec 11 (Bernama) -- The goal of making Southeast Asia free from human rabies can be achieved through a total understanding of the disease, how it can be prevented and responsible pet ownership among communities, say experts.
KUCHING, Dec 11 (Bernama) -- The goal of making Southeast Asia free from human rabies can be achieved through a total understanding of the disease, how it can be prevented and responsible pet ownership among communities, say experts.
TAVI KAEDAH BAIK PULIH INJAP JANTUNG TANPA PEMBEDAHAN
APA ITU MELODY TPV?
Pandangan rakyat Malaysia tentang peningkatan sasaran pemberian vaksin COVID-19 kepada 70 peratus.
UMSC: Pain Management
In Focus : UMSC Raya Open House 2018
© 2024 BERNAMA. All Rights Reserved.Disclaimer|Privacy Policy|Security PolicyThis material may not be published, broadcast,rewritten or redistributed in any form except with the prior written permission of BERNAMA.Best viewed in Firefox 58.0.1 (64-bit) & Chrome Version 63.0.3239.132 (Official Build) (64-bit) with 1920 x 1080 resolution
Contact us : 03-2691 9955/03-2693 9933 (General), 03-2050 4466 (Product/Service Enquiries) | E-mail : portal@bernama.com

Title: DRC's Tshisekedi wants 'reduced and better armed' UN peacekeepers | Africanews
Please select your experience
Copy/paste the script below
OTHER WIDGETS
with AFP
The president of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Felix Tshisekedi says his government will work with the United Nations to draw up a withdrawal plan for the MONUSCO peacekeeping mission.
Relations between MONUSCO and DRC’s government during Kabila’s tenure weretense,and the latter consistently called for the implementation of a 2010 resolution that ‘required the United Nations Secretary General to prepare a withdrawal plan’.
In his first formal meeting with diplomats held on Friday, Tshisekedi called for a “better armed” UN peacekeeping force that can operate in the restive parts of DRC.
He reiterated his predecessor’s position that it was time to draw up a withdrawal plan for the MONUSCO peacekeeping mission, which has been present in DRC for 20 years.
Tshisekedi, who was inaugurated last month says the UN troops “should be reduced and better armed and prepared” to fight the numerous rebel and militia groups which hold sway over large areas of the country.
Tshisekedi said he wanted a mutual exchange with diplomats and foreign allies “as soon as possible,” but underscored Kinshasa would “protect its political independence… and sovereignty.”
ALSO READ: Did DRC president ask EU to lift sanctions on Kabila appointees?
