Title: Fresher Infrastructure Officer Career Jobs - Danish Refugee Council (DRC)

Job Title:  Senior Consultant – Service Assurance Center   Organisation:…
Job Title:  Legal Assistant (2 Fresher Diploma Jobs)   Organisation: ALIGHT…
Job Title:  Social Media Assistant (Volunteer) No Experience Jobs Organisation:…
Job Title:   Senior Project Control Assistant (Fresher UN Jobs) Organisation: United…
Job Title:   Senior Program Officer – Powering The Uptake of…
Job Title:   Laboratory Technician (Fresher Jobs) Organisation: Makerere University Lung Institute…

For employers, please send your adverts and inquiries to ugandanjobline@gmail.com
Popular JobsConsultancy – TOR – Independent Financial Audit of Handicap International Federation East Africa Region (EAR)-Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda.9 min readTerms of Reference – Independent Financial Audit of Handicap InternationalRead MoreFresh Graduate Engineering Jobs – Technical Trainee – Xclusive Uganda2 min readJob Title:  Technical Trainee (Fresh Graduate Engineering Jobs) Organisation: XclusiveRead More3 Collection Call Centre Agent Job Opportunities – Tugende4 min readJob Title:  Collection Call Centre Agent (3 Job Opportunities) Organisation:Read More197 No Experience Tax Officer Job Opportunities – Uganda Revenue Authority (URA)5 min readJob Title:  Tax Officer (197 No Experience Jobs) Organisation: UgandaRead MoreRegional Collections Officer (Western Region) Jobs – Access Financial Services Limited (AFS)4 min readJob Title:  Regional Collections Officer (Western Region) Organisation: Access Financial ServicesRead More
Terms of Reference – Independent Financial Audit of Handicap InternationalRead More
Job Title:  Technical Trainee (Fresh Graduate Engineering Jobs) Organisation: XclusiveRead More
Job Title:  Collection Call Centre Agent (3 Job Opportunities) Organisation:Read More
Job Title:  Tax Officer (197 No Experience Jobs) Organisation: UgandaRead More
Job Title:  Regional Collections Officer (Western Region) Organisation: Access Financial ServicesRead More




Title: Uganda confirms hundreds of Congolese M23 rebels missing | News24
Sunday, 22 September
19 Jan 2017
Kampala -  Hundreds of members of a Congolese rebel group have fled a military camp where they had been awaiting amnesty since the signing of a peace deal with Democratic Republic of Congo's government in 2013, Uganda's government said on Thursday.
Some members of M23, a Tutsi-led rebel group that once controlled vast territory in eastern DRC, "have been quietly escaping into the general public," government spokesperson Ofwono Opondo said in a statement.
Opondo said Ugandan authorities have arrested 101 M23 members, disguised as ordinary passengers, who were being ferried in four vehicles destined for DRC.
"Uganda will not and does not support any armed activities to destabilise the Democratic Republic of Congo," he said.
At least 270 M23 members are still detained in western Uganda, Opondo said.
It was not clear if M23 leader Sultani Makenga remained in the custody of Ugandan authorities.
Makenga is the subject of US sanctions, including a travel ban and assets freeze for "serious violations of international law involving the targeting of women and children" in armed conflict.
The news of missing M23 fighters is likely to alarm DRC's government, which has repeatedly urged Uganda's government to hold the rebels.
M23 launched its rebellion in eastern DRC in April 2012, becoming the latest reincarnation of a Tutsi rebel group dissatisfied with DRC's government, until it was repulsed by UN forces and DRC's army.
Many rebels fled to Rwanda and Uganda before a 2013 peace agreement.
At the time, Ugandan officials said about 1 700 M23 rebels had fled to Uganda, which was mediating talks between the rebels and DRC's government.


Free to listen for subscribers
News24's September audiobook that’s free to listen to for subscribers is The Super Cadres: ANC Misrule in the Age of Deployment by Pieter du Toit.
Indulge in the finer things
News24's new magazine is curated for those who understand luxury and want to celebrate the richness of life.
Can you ace them all?
Today’s crossword, wordflower, sudoku and weekly news quiz
Friday Briefing - weekly
Insight and analysis on the big political story of the week, plus a roundup of top columns and reader favourites.
04 Sep
21 Aug
16 Aug
07 Aug
01 Aug
19 Jul

Use your voice to deepen the dialogue and engage with stories of courage, endurance, community, triumph, and the pursuit of truth in SA.
17 Sep
17 Sep
13 Sep
01 Sep
Contact the public editor with feedback for our journalists, complaints, queries or suggestions about articles on News24.
04 Sep
12 Sep
09 Sep
11 Sep

Title: Afreximbank extends US$250mn loan to Congo oil plans | Global Trade Review (GTR)

No account yet?Create one now
By signing up, you agree to GTRPrivacy Policyand Terms of Use.
The African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) has provided a US$250mn future flow pre-financing to the government of the Republic of the Congo to support its oil fields plans.
According to a statement by Afreximbank, the transaction will support Congo’s government to finance and expand upstream oil production activities, expand oil exports and improve foreign exchange earnings, and support productive activities to help it diversify away from oil.
The facility forms part of a US$1bn syndicated loan commitment that Congo has mandated Afreximbank to raise for the country, which will cater for capital investment financing requirements for oil production increases and finance trade-related investments in the oil and gas sector, says Afreximbank president Dr Benedict Oramah.
He adds that the bank has stepped in with innovative programmes to mitigate the adverse economic impact of low oil prices on its member states.
The loan brings the total financing from Afreximbank to Congo’s economy to US$1bn since the country’s membership was formalised in 2013, according to an Afreximbank spokesperson.
Tags:African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank),Congo
Cairo, Egypt
Vienna, Austria
Zoom
Become a part of the most comprehensive contact listing of service providers in the global trade, commodity and export finance markets.
This Privacy Policyoutlines the information we may collectabout you in relation to your use of our websites, events, related publications and services (“personal data”) andhow we may use that personal data. It also outlines themethods by which we and our service providers may (subject to necessary consents) monitor your online behaviourto deliver customised advertisements, marketing materials and other tailored services. This Privacy Policy also tells you how you canverify the accuracy of your personal dataand how you canrequest that we delete or updateit.
This Privacy Policy applies to all websites operated by Exporta Publishing & Events Ltd (as indicated on the relevant website).
This privacy statement does not cover the activities of third parties, and you should consult those third-party sites’ privacy policies for information on how your data is used by them.
Any questions regarding this Policy and our privacy practices should be sent by e-mail to privacy@gtreview.com or by writing to Data Protection Officer at, Exporta Publishing & Events Ltd, 4 Hillgate Place, London, SW12 9ER, United Kingdom. Alternatively, you can telephone our London headquarters at +44 (0) 20 8673 9666.
Established in 2002 and with offices in London and Singapore, Exporta Publishing & Events Ltd is the world’s leading trade and trade finance media company, offering information, news, events and services for companies and individuals involved in global trade.
Our principal business activities are:
Exporta Publishing & Events Ltd is a company registered in the United Kingdom with company number 4407327 | VAT Registration: 799 1585 59
This Data Protection Policy explains when and why we collect personal information about people who visit our website, how we use it, the conditions under which we may disclose it to others and how we keep it secure.
Why do we collect information from you?
Our primary goal in collecting personal data from you is to give you an enjoyable customised experience whilst allowing us to provide services and features that will meet your needs.We collect certain personal data from you, which you give to us when using our Site and/or registering or subscribing for our products and services. However, we also give you the option to access our Sites’ home pages without subscribing or registering or disclosing your personal data.
We also collect certain personal data from other group companies to whom you have given information through their websites (including, by way of example, Exporta Publishing & Events Ltd and subsidiaries, in accordance with the purposes listed below). Should we discover that any such personal data has been delivered to any of the Sites, we will remove that information as soon as possible.
This Data Protection Policy ensures Exporta Publishing & Events Ltd:
We may change this Policy from time to time so please check this page occasionally to ensure that you’re happy with any changes. By using our website, you’re agreeing to be bound by this Policy.
The Data Protection Act 1998 described how organisations – including Exporta Publishing & Events Ltd – must collect, handle and store personal information. These rules apply regardless of whether data is stored electronically, on paper or on other materials. To comply with the law, personal information collected must be stored safely, not disclosed unlawfully and used fairly.
The Data Protection Act is underpinned by eight important principles. These say that personal data must:
We obtain information about you when you use our website, for example, when you contact us about products and services, when you register for an event, register to receive eNewsletters, subscribe or register for a trial to our GTR magazine/website.
On some Sites, Exporta Publishing & Events Ltd collects personal data such as your name, job title, department, company, e-mail, phone, work and/or home address, in order to register you for access to certain content, subscriptions and events. In addition, we may also store information including IP address and page analytics, including information regarding what pages are accessed, by whom and when.
This information is used to administer and deliver to you the products and/or services you have requested, to operate our Sites efficiently and improve our service to you, and to retain records of our business transactions and communications. By using the Sites and submitting personal information through the registration process you are agreeing that we may collect, hold, process and use your information (including personal information) for the purpose of providing you with the Site services and developing our business, which shall include (without limitation) the purposes described in the below paragraphs.
Where, as part of our Site services, we enable you to post information or materials on our Site, we may access and monitor any information which you upload or input, including in any password-protected sections. Subject to any necessary consents, we also monitor and/or record the different Sites you visit and actions taken on those Sites, e.g. content viewed or searched for. If you are a registered user (e.g. a subscriber or taking a trial), when you log on, this places a cookie on your machine. This enables your access to content and services that
are not publicly available. Once you are logged on, the actions you take – for example, viewing an article – will be recorded (subject to any necessary consents). We may use technology or a service provider to do this for us. This information may be used for one or more of the following purposes:
Please see paragraph 5 below for more information on cookies and similar technologies and a link to a page where you can turn them on or off.
Some of your personal data collected under paragraphs 1 and 2 above may be used by us to contact you by e-mail, telephone and/or post for sending information or promotional material on our products and/or services and/or those of our other group companies.
We give you the opportunity to opt-out of receiving marketing communications. Further detail can be found on the applicable Site and in the footer of each marketing communication sent by us, our group companies or service providers. See also “Consents and opt-outs” section below.
We will not share your information with third parties for marketing purposes.
We may analyse your personal information to create a profile of your interests and preferences so that we can contact you with information relevant to you.
All our Sites use cookies and similar technical tools to collect information about your access to the Site and the services we provide.
When you enter some sites, your computer will be issued with a cookie. Cookies are text files that identify your computer to servers. Cookies in themselves do not identify the individual user, just the computer used.
Many sites do this whenever a user visits their site in order to track traffic flows, recording those areas of the site that have been visited by the computer in question, and for how long.
Users have the opportunity to set their computers to accept all cookies, to notify them when a cookie is issued, or not to receive cookies at any time. Selecting not to receive means that certain personalised services Exporta Publishing & Events Ltd offers cannot then be provided to that user.
All of the major browser providers offer advice on setting up and using the privacy and security functions for their products. If you require technical advice or support for a specific browser/version please contact the provider or visit their website for further details:
www.microsoft.com / www.mozilla.com / www.apple.com
 / www.opera.com / www.aol.com / www.netscape.com
 / www.flock.com / www.google.com.
Most web browsers automatically accept cookies but, if you prefer, you can change your browser to prevent that, or to notify you each time a cookie is set. You can also learn more about cookies in general by visiting www.allaboutcookies.org which includes additional useful information on cookies and how to block cookies using different types of browser. Please note however, that by blocking, deleting or turning off cookies used on the Site you may not be able to take full advantage of the Site.
E-mail tracking is a method for monitoring the e-mail delivery to those subscribers who have opted-in to receive marketing e-mails from GTR, including GTR Africa, GTR Asia, GTR Americas, GTR Europe, GTR Mena, GTR eNews, Third party e-mails and GTR Ventures.
So that we can better understand our users’ needs, we track responses, subscription behaviour and engagement to our e-mails – for example, to see which links are the most popular in newsletters. They enable us to understand the consumers journey through metrics including open rate, click-through rate, bounces and unsubscribes. Any other purposes for which Exporta Publishing & Events Ltd wishes to use your personal data will be notified to you and your personal data will not be used for any such purpose without obtaining your prior consent.
To do this, we use pixel GIFs, also known as “pixel tags” – these are small image files that are placed within the body of our e-mail messages. When that image is downloaded from our web servers, the e-mail is recorded as being opened. By using some form of digitally time-stamped record to reveal the exact time and date that an e-mail was received or opened, as well the IP address of the recipient.
You can give your consent to opt-out of all or any particular uses of your data as indicated above by:
To turn cookies and similar technologies on and off, see the information in paragraph 5 above.
Any questions regarding consents and opt-outs should be sent by e-mail to privacy@gtreview.com or by writing to Data Protection Officer at, Exporta Publishing & Events Ltd, 4 Hillgate Place, London, SW12 9ER, United Kingdom. Alternatively, you can telephone our London headquarters at +44 (0) 20 8673 9666.
Information collected at one Site may be shared between Exporta Publishing & Events Ltd and other group companies for the purposes listed above.
We may transfer, sell or assign any of the information described in this policy to third parties as a result of a sale, merger, consolidation, change of control, transfer of assets or reorganisation of our business.
Some of our Sites may have a message board, blogs or other facilities for user generated content available and users can participate in these facilities. Any information that is disclosed in these areas becomes public information and you should always be careful when deciding to disclose your personal information.
Services on the Internet are accessible globally so collection and transmission of personal data is not always limited to one country. Exporta Publishing & Events Ltd may transfer your personal data, for the above-listed purposes to other third parties, which may be located outside the European Economic Area and/or with a different level of personal data protection. However, when conducting transfers, we take all necessary steps to ensure that your data is treated reasonably, securely and in accordance with this Privacy Statement.
We are committed to keeping the data you provide us secure and will take reasonable precautions to protect your personal data from loss, misuse or alteration.
However, the transmission of information via the internet is not completely secure. Although we will do our best to protect your personal data, we cannot guarantee the security of your data transmitted to our Site; any transmission is at your own risk. Once we have received your information, we will use strict procedures and security features described above to try to prevent unauthorised access.
We have implemented information security policies, rules and technical measures to protect the personal data that we have under our control from:
All our employees, contractors and data processors (i.e. those who process your personal data on our behalf, for the purposes listed above), who have access to, and are associated with the processing of your personal data, are obliged to keep the information confidential and not use it for any other purpose than to carry out the services they are performing for us.
Everyone who works for or with Exporta Publishing & Events Ltd has some responsibility for ensuring data is collected, stored and handled appropriately. Each team handling personal data must ensure that it is handled and processed in line with this policy and data protection principles. However, the following people have key areas of responsibility.
The board of directors is ultimately responsible for ensuring that Exporta Publishing & Events Ltd meets its legal obligations.
Name of Data Controller
The Data Controller is Exporta Publishing & Events Ltd. Exporta Publishing & Events Ltd is subject to the UK Data Protection Act 1998 and is registered in the UK with the Information Commissioner`s Office.
If you wish to know whether we are keeping personal data about you, or if you have an enquiry about our privacy policy or your personal data held by us, in relation to any of the Sites, you can contact the Data Protection Officer via:
Upon request, we will provide you with a readable copy of the personal data which we keep about you. We may require proof of your identity and may charge a small fee (not exceeding the statutory maximum fee that can be charged) to cover administration and postage.
Exporta Publishing & Events Ltd allows you to challenge the data that we hold about you and, where appropriate in accordance with applicable laws, you may have your personal information:
In certain circumstances, the Data Protection Act allows personal data to be disclosed to law enforcement agencies without the consent of the data subject. Under these circumstances, Exporta Publishing & Events Ltd, will disclose requested data. However, the Data Controller will ensure the request is legitimate, seeking assistance from the board and from the company’s legal advisors where necessary.
We will occasionally update this Privacy Statement to reflect new legislation or industry practice, group company changes and customer feedback. We encourage you to review this Privacy Statement periodically to be informed of how we are protecting your personal data.
Exporta Publishing & Events Ltd aims to ensure that individuals are aware that their data is being processed, and that they understand.
To this end, the company has a privacy statement, setting out how data relating to individuals is used by the company. This is available on request and available on the company’s website.
We keep this Policy under regular review. This Privacy Statement was last updated in April 2018.

Title: mediacongo.net - Offre d'emploi - Program Coordinator Consultant

Democratic Republic of Congo Program Coordinator ConsultantPosition Description

Vitamin Angels (VA) is a US-based, international non-governmental organization whose mission is to help at-risk populations in need - specifically pregnant women, new mothers, and children under five - gain access to lifesaving and life changing vitamins and minerals. To fulfill this mission, we provide annual grants of vitamin A supplements, deworming medication and multivitamins to NGOs that work with children 6-59 months old and/or pregnant and lactating women.

VA seeks a dedicated, part-time Democratic Republic of Congo-based Program Coordinator Consultant to support continued expansion of VA’s micronutrient distribution system in DRC. VA’s donations in DRC have grown rapidly and VA currently makes grants to about 60 DRC organizations reaching over 4 million children under 5. Under direction of the Democratic Republic of Congo Country Program Manager Consultant, the Program Coordinator Consultant will contribute to VA’s continued growth and success in DRC by assuming responsibility for administration and coordination of VA’s micronutrient grants program. Based on their performance the consultant may have the opportunity to move into a full time role with Vitamin Angels.
Role responsibilities will include:

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities

Highly desirable:

To apply, please email your professional resume and cover letter to Dr. DIESE Mulamba,MDiese@vitaminangels.org
Désengorgement carcéral à Makala : 648 détenus libérés par le ministre Constant Mutamba, dans le cadre de la réforme pénitentiaire initiée par le Président Tshisekedi
Sénat : 72 heures aux sénateurs pour constituer les commissions permanentes et groupes politiques
Ligue des champions de la CAF : Mazembe et Maniema Union se qualifient pour la phase des groupes
Tournoi " All Star Game University" de Rawbank : après la phase préparatoire, place à la compétition
Rawbank et Street Child United lancent le programme de développement "1 million d'espoirs" pour les enfants en RDC
Au Forum économique RDC-Chine : Kizito PAKABOMBA dévoile aux investisseurs les opportunités du secteur minier congolais
OFFRE D'EMPLOI

Ils nous font confiance