Title: Actualités - MwcNews.net
Soyez au plus près de l’actualité en retrouvant tous les articles d’actualités en France mais également dans le monde entier.
La rentrée scolaire approche à grands pas et il est temps de penser à équiper votre petit écolier en herbe. Parmi les indispensables pour sa[…]
La Tour Eiffel, monument emblématique de la capitale française, est un véritable symbole de l’ingénierie et de l’innovation architecturale du 19ème siècle. Depuis son inauguration[…]
Le vertige est une sensation déroutante et désagréable que la plupart des gens ont déjà éprouvée au moins une fois dans leur vie. Cette sensation[…]
Le bâillement, cette réaction spontanée et souvent irrépressible qui nous touche tous, semble a priori anodin. Pourtant, derrière cet acte banal se cachent de nombreuses[…]
Le muguet, cette petite fleur blanche et délicate, est devenu au fil des siècles l’un des symboles les plus marquants du 1er mai en France.[…]
Le rougissement est un phénomène bien connu et probablement vécu par chacun d’entre nous. Toutefois, il reste un mystère pour beaucoup, car il peut être[…]
L’existence d’un trou dans la couche d’ozone est un phénomène qui inquiète depuis plusieurs décennies les scientifiques, les politiques et les citoyens du monde entier.[…]
Les azalées sont des plantes ornementales très appréciées pour leur floraison spectaculaire et leur feuillage persistant. Elles sont souvent associées à la beauté et à[…]
Dans un monde où la sollicitation permanente et les distractions numériques sont devenues la norme, réussir à se concentrer sur une tâche pendant une longue[…]
Vous souhaitez optimiser votre performance en course à pied et développer votre endurance ? Vous êtes au bon endroit ! Cet article vous propose des[…]
Le haut potentiel intellectuel, connu sous le nom de douance, est un sujet qui suscite de plus en plus d’intérêt. Souvent associé à l’intelligence, ce[…]
Vous cherchez des solutions pour améliorer la qualité de l’eau du robinet que vous consommez au quotidien ? Vous êtes au bon endroit ! Nous[…]
Vous rêvez de savourer des citrons frais et juteux, directement cueillis sur votre propre citronnier ? Vous souhaitez apporter une touche de verdure et d’exotisme[…]
Vous êtes à la recherche de la pièce phare qui fera toute la différence dans votre garde-robe cette saison ? Ne cherchez plus, la combinaison[…]
L’agriculture moderne est en constante évolution et recherche des solutions toujours plus efficaces pour répondre aux défis environnementaux et économiques. Parmi les outils indispensables dont[…]
Dans un monde en perpétuel mouvement et en constante évolution, il est parfois difficile de se retrouver et de profiter pleinement des bienfaits de notre[…]
Le monde du sport connaît aujourd’hui une révolution avec l’ouverture officielle de Megasports97, un média en ligne dédié aux passionnés et amateurs de sport de[…]
Toulouse, la ville rose, est un véritable carrefour culturel et artistique qui ne cesse de séduire et d’inspirer ses habitants et ses visiteurs. Parmi les[…]
Les blattes ou cafards (Blatta orientalis) sont des insectes qui appartiennent à la famille des Blattoptéra. Ils se caractérisent par leur forme allongée, leurs ailes[…]
Loin d’être une mince affaire, chercher un cadeau pour lui ou pour elle est toujours un exercice périlleux. Pour offrir un cadeau beauté à un[…]
La pompe à chaleur est un système de chauffage écologique et ingénieux. Elle trouve son énergie dans la nature (eau, air, terre) et la transforme[…]
Un portail électrique est un moyen efficace d’augmenter la sécurité de la maison. Grâce à ses caractéristiques, il peut empêcher quiconque d’accéder sans autorisation à[…]
Acheter une bonne armoire forte est une solution contre les vols, les incendies, protéger des documents contre l’humidité, etc. Pour une sécurité maximale, il vous[…]
La maîtrise des outils informatiques en l’occurrence de certains logiciels comme l’Excel est très importante dans la vie de tout professionnel. Très utile aussi bien[…]
Derrière une entreprise se cache une diversité d’informations plus ou moins importantes. Ces informations peuvent alors intéresser un collaborateur, un client, une personne à la[…]
Avez-vous envie de rompre avec la monotonie qui s’est installée dans votre vie sexuelle ? Si en tant que couple, vous cherchez des idées pour[…]
Les fêtes de fin d’année sont bientôt là, nous apportant comme tous les ans, de beaux moments de partage, en famille et entre amis. C’est[…]
Depuis quelques années, l’utilisation des sextoys suscite plusieurs polémiques. S’ils sont très convoités pour les plaisirs solos, nombreux sont les couples qui ont du mal à l’intégrer dans leur[…]
Il est possible de domicilier le siège social de son entreprise chez soi lors des démarches d’immatriculation. D’ailleurs, c’est une solution avantageuse et simple. L’essentiel[…]
L’électricité est devenue, de nos jours, un besoin d’une importance majeure, et cela, dans tous les domaines d’activité. Que ce soit dans les maisons ou[…]
MwcNews.net|Contact|Mentions Légales|Politique de confidentialite|L'équipe|Unpointculture

Title: 
South Africa extends troop deployment on DRC peace mission - Xinhua | English.news.cn

CAPE TOWN, May 5 (Xinhua) -- South African President Jacob Zuma has extended the deployment of South African troops on a peace mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), the Presidency announced on Friday.
The deployment is extended from April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018, presidential spokesperson Bongani Ngqulunga said.
The president has informed Parliament of this decision, Ngqulunga said.
South Africa has dispatched 1,371 members of the South African National Defense Force to participate in theUnited NationsOrganization Stabilization Mission in the DRC (MONUSCO) as part of the 3,500-strong Force Intervention Brigade.
The UN peace mission oversees the disarmament, demobilization, repatriation and reintegration program for rebel groups in the DRC, which has continued to suffer from recurring cycles of conflict and persistent violence by the armed groups.
On March 31 this year, the UN Security Council extended the mandate of MONUSCO until March 31, 2018.
CAPE TOWN, May 5 (Xinhua) -- South African President Jacob Zuma has extended the deployment of South African troops on a peace mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), the Presidency announced on Friday.
The deployment is extended from April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018, presidential spokesperson Bongani Ngqulunga said.
The president has informed Parliament of this decision, Ngqulunga said.
South Africa has dispatched 1,371 members of the South African National Defense Force to participate in theUnited NationsOrganization Stabilization Mission in the DRC (MONUSCO) as part of the 3,500-strong Force Intervention Brigade.
The UN peace mission oversees the disarmament, demobilization, repatriation and reintegration program for rebel groups in the DRC, which has continued to suffer from recurring cycles of conflict and persistent violence by the armed groups.
On March 31 this year, the UN Security Council extended the mandate of MONUSCO until March 31, 2018.
Copyright © 2000 - 2015 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.

Title: Deutsche Welle journalist Niragira released by DR Congo | Freedom of the Press News | Al Jazeera
Antediteste Niragira was arrested last Wednesday on accusations of spying in the DRC.
Deutsche Welle Burundian correspondent Antedisteste Niragira has been released following his arrest last week on accusations of spying in theDemocratic Republic of Congo (DRC), said the German broadcaster.
Niragira was arrested by the Congolese intelligence agency on Wednesday while reporting in the Kavinvara camp, which houses Burundi refugees near its border with DRC.




Deutsche Welle spokesman Christop Jumpelt said on Tuesday that while Niragira was no longer in custody, he had not been allowed to return to his family and was being held inBurundi.
“After what he unjustly experienced in DRC, I do not understand why he is now detained by the Burundian police,” Jumpelt said in comments on Deutsche Welle website.
Where is@dwnewscorrespondent Antediteste Niragira? Concern after released to#Burundipolice from#DRCjail –https://t.co/NjIBSpHKLApic.twitter.com/ZbrRlkRktX
— CPJ Africa (@CPJAfrica)May 22, 2017

In an earlier statement demanding the reporter be released by the DRC, Jumpelt said: “The accusation that our correspondent is a spy is outrageous and baseless.”
The DRC ranks 154th out of 180 countries on Reporters Without Borders’ 2017World Press Freedom Index.
READ MORE: Double standards – Do all journalist lives matter?
According to the Kinhasa-based media watchdog, Journaliste en Danger (JED), there were at least 87 cases of “direct attacks against the press” in 2016 in the country. At least69 violationshave been recorded this year.
In October 2016, Burundian radio journalist Egide Mwemero was freed after spending nearly a year in detention without trial in the DRC.
Mwemero was arrested a few days after launching a radio station in the DRC after it was banned in Burundi. DRC government officials said it was “a threat to peace in Burundi”.
READ MORE: Reporters Without Borders – Journalism at tipping point
More than 400,000 Burundians have fled the country since it plunged into crisis two years ago after President Pierre Nkurunziza launched a bid for a third term in office.
At least 36,000 have sought refuge in the DRC, which has also experienced unrest in recent years.
The UN estimates at least 500 people have been killed in Burundi, though NGOs believe the death toll could be as many as 2,000.














Follow Al Jazeera English:

Title: Deutsche Welle says Burundi reporter freed by DRC | News24
Sunday, 22 September
23 May 2017
Nairobi - German broadcaster Deutsche Welle on Monday announced that its Burundian correspondent, arrested on accusations of spying in the Democratic Republic of Congo last week, had been freed.
Antediteste Niragira was detained by Congolese intelligence agents on Wednesday while reporting in the Kavinvara camp which houses Burundian refugees near the two countries' border.
However, while Deutsche Welle spokesman Christoph Jumpelt said Niragira was no longer in custody in the DRC he had not yet been allowed to return to his family.
"After what he unjustly experienced in DRC, I do not understand why he is now detained by the Burundian police," Jumpelt said in comments on Deutsche Welle website.
In an earlier statement demanding the reporter be released by the DRC, Jumpelt said: "The accusation that our correspondent is a spy is outrageous and baseless."
The arrest of Niragira - whose wife is pregnant with his third child - has worried his family who has not been able to speak to him.
More than 400,000 Burundians have fled the country since it plunged into crisis two years ago when President Pierre Nkurunziza launched a bid for a third term in office.
More than 36,000 of them have sought refuge in the DRC.
The UN estimates at least 500 people have been killed, though NGOs believe that the death toll is an underestimate and the real count could be as many as 2 000.
In October 2016, Burundian radio journalist Egide Mwemero was freed after spending nearly a year in detention without trial in the DRC.
He had been arrested a few days after launching a radio station in the DRC after it was banned in Burundi. DRC government officials said it was "a threat to peace in Burundi".
Free to listen for subscribers
News24's September audiobook that’s free to listen to for subscribers is The Super Cadres: ANC Misrule in the Age of Deployment by Pieter du Toit.
Indulge in the finer things
News24's new magazine is curated for those who understand luxury and want to celebrate the richness of life.
Can you ace them all?
Today’s crossword, wordflower, sudoku and weekly news quiz
Friday Briefing - weekly
Insight and analysis on the big political story of the week, plus a roundup of top columns and reader favourites.
04 Sep
21 Aug
16 Aug
07 Aug
01 Aug
19 Jul

Use your voice to deepen the dialogue and engage with stories of courage, endurance, community, triumph, and the pursuit of truth in SA.
17 Sep
17 Sep
13 Sep
01 Sep
Contact the public editor with feedback for our journalists, complaints, queries or suggestions about articles on News24.
04 Sep
12 Sep
09 Sep
11 Sep

Title: Conflict Management Officer EU Project Careers - Danish Refugee Council (DRC)

Job Title:  Project Officer – Inclusive Employment (Fresher Jobs) Organisation:…
Job Title:   Cybersecurity Officer (NGO Jobs) Organisation: Baylor College of Medicine…
Job Title:  Talent Management Officer (Fresher Jobs) Organisation: Refactory Duty…
Job Title:  Program Officer Organisation: Refactory Duty Station: Kampala, Uganda…
Job Title:  Finance & Administration Director, USAID/Uganda/Strengthening Supply Chain Systems…
Job Title:   Grants and Partnership Officer Organisation: BRAC Uganda Duty…

For employers, please send your adverts and inquiries to ugandanjobline@gmail.com
Popular JobsConsultancy – TOR – Independent Financial Audit of Handicap International Federation East Africa Region (EAR)-Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda.9 min readTerms of Reference – Independent Financial Audit of Handicap InternationalRead MoreElectric Technician Jobs – Tenza Flour Mills Ltd.2 min readJob Title:  Electric Technician Company Name: Tenza Flour Mills Ltd.Read More2 Fresher Cafeteria Attendant Jobs – Pharmaceutical Company2 min readJob Title:   Cafeteria Attendant (2 Fresher Jobs) Organisation: Pharmaceutical Company DutyRead MoreProduct Officer Jobs – KCB Bank Uganda Limited4 min readJob Title:   Product Officer Organisation: KCB Bank Uganda Limited DutyRead MoreParticipatory Integrated Planning Specialist NGO Jobs – GOAL Uganda9 min readJob Title: Participatory Integrated Planning Specialist Location: Jinja, Uganda ReportsRead More
Terms of Reference – Independent Financial Audit of Handicap InternationalRead More
Job Title:  Electric Technician Company Name: Tenza Flour Mills Ltd.Read More
Job Title:   Cafeteria Attendant (2 Fresher Jobs) Organisation: Pharmaceutical Company DutyRead More
Job Title:   Product Officer Organisation: KCB Bank Uganda Limited DutyRead More
Job Title: Participatory Integrated Planning Specialist Location: Jinja, Uganda ReportsRead More




Title: African Great Lakes Reporting Initiative - IWMF
In 2014, the IWMF created the African Great Lakes Reporting Initiative (AGLRI), a program designed to support journalists in pursuing stories beyond the well-established narratives of political instability, armed conflicts, and humanitarian crises in the region.
Throughout the Initiative’s five years, the IWMF led groups of international women journalists to the Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), Rwanda, South Sudan, Tanzania, and Uganda. The AGLRI alsoprovided trainingsand offered support for in-country journalists in the program countries, including essential security training to help journalists stay safe in the field and quality reporting support.
Through this initiative, IWMF Fellowscovered a wide range of under-reported issuesincluding issues of empowerment, democracy, food security and conservation efforts. Their work was produced and published by leading media outlets around the world.
The AGLRI ended in 2018, with the program’s last trip to the Central African Republic. In January 2019, a group of women from the more than 14 countries across the African continent joined to take part in a Leadership Bootcamp hosted by the IWMF and the World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers.
The African Great Lakes Reporting Initiative was funded by a generous gift from the Howard G. Buffett Foundation.
Across five years, the IWMF’s African Great Lakes Reporting Initiative touched the lives of 130 local and 178 international journalists who published more than 450 stories, changing the narrative around this underreported region.
Through our blog, IWMF On the Ground,  read the experiences and reporting from our fellows from our most recent reporting trip.
We unleash the potential of women journalists as champions of press freedom to transform the global news media.
2002 Massachusetts Ave NW, Ste. 1Washington, DC 20036Please mail checks to:ATTN: Adena MartinPO BOX 374 Clinton, MD 20735-9997, USA
info@iwmf.org(+1) 202-496-1992
Copyright © 2024 International Women's Media Foundation. All Rights Reserved.Nonprofit Web Designby NMC.

Title: Preserving precious peat in the Congo Basin - CIFOR-ICRAF Forests News
The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) has long been known for the biodiversity and carbon storage capacity of its vast forests. Now, there is a need to explore the potential of newly-discovered peatland to help further keep a lid on its carbon emissions, according to Denis Jean Sonwa, a senior scientist at theCenter for International Forestry Research (CIFOR).
Scientists recently discovered what they call‘the world’s largest tropical peatland’in a remote part of the Congo Basin. The 145,000 square-kilometer area, larger than the size of England, is believed to hold the equivalent of three years’ worth of global emissions. Known as the ‘Cuvette Centrale’, the area straddles the DRC’s border with the Republic of Congo.
The DRC is well-informed to bring peatlands into itsReducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation in Developing Countries (REDD)process, says Sonwa, who is based in CIFOR’s office in Yaoundé, Cameroon.
“The countries of Central Africa are known for their biodiversity,” he says. “It is thus extremely important that the DRC, with support from international donors and partners, continue protecting its peatland areas.”
Sonwa spoke toForests Newsabout how the DRC can move forward on peatland preservation for carbon storage purposes.
What role can peatlands play in carbon storage in the DRC?
Peatlands matter in the DRC. It constitutes a fragile ecological environment. With regards to the carbon storage process, the DRC is adopting the REDD process, and we know that peatlands store vast amounts of peat carbon in the soil.
For the REDD process, the DRC needs to know what carbon pools and stocks it holds. In the past, we knew the carbon stocks in the forestland much better. But recent discoveries mention large quantities of peat in the DRC and even in neighboring Congo. This ‘new’ peat needs to be added to the existing forest carbon stocks identified earlier because it constitutes important supplemental information on carbon stocks, which are related to certain aspects of climate change.
The recent discovery of large quantities of peat has now ranked the DRC and Congo among the world’s leading tropical peatland countries, just behind Indonesia, putting them and the Congo Basin very high on the roster of global statistics on peatland and carbon pools.
How important is the DRC’s Central Basin peatland?
The DRC has the biggest forest in Central Africa and thus has great biodiversity. The peatland discovered in the Central Basin is important for its significant biodiversity.
Here, carbon storage is of ecological importance and biodiversity is important to the environment. The area where peat was discovered is part of an identified landscape for biodiversity conservation. It straddles the DRC and the Republic of Congo.
The recent discovery of large quantities of peat has now ranked the DRC and Congo among the world’s leading tropical peatland countries, just behind Indonesia, putting them and the Congo Basin very high on the roster of global statistics on peatland and carbon pools.
What are some challenges regarding the preservation of this peatland?
The discovery of this peatland offers a great opportunity for participation in the REDD process, but there are major problems such as preventing drainage to prepare lands for other activities- mainly agriculture, as was done in some parts of the world where drained lands were used essentially as farmland.
For agricultural expansion globally, the Congo Basin countries are considered to be the world’s next frontier. People hope to open lands for agriculture because agriculture flourishes in the peatlands. Hence the carbon pool areas, including peatlands, must be very well-protected.
The first challenge is to protect these lands. The second challenge concerns commitment to the REDD process. Carbon pools, after being identified, supposedly can be measured and verified. But Central African peatlands have long been neglected because the technology and facilities needed to identify these areas have not always been available.
Investments for identifying peat areas and carbon stocks in this distinctive environment have been slow. For the REDD process, the country must be able to monitor the quantity of peat and greenhouse gas emissions.
Will the country have the capacity to measure the peat and evaluate the emissions found in this environment? Time will tell.
How is climate change affecting the peatlands of Central Africa?
Climate change is a very important ecological matter. In the peatlands, the water level affects the level of emissions, and that level can be impacted by climate change. Analyses of climate change show that Central Africa is drying out. A decline in rainfall levels could seriously affect the level of peat carbon storage.
How might the citizens of the DRC benefit from peatland preservation?
The DRC communities can benefit from peatlands on the whole and use them for a bit of small-scale farming. More importantly, if the country derives financial gain from carbon, the people could benefit directly from the fact that the country has sustainably managed peatland.
How do you see the future of peatland preservation in the DRC and the rest of Central Africa?
We have learned that these peatlands are now being protected and that they play a twofold role: carbon sequestration and biodiversity conservation.
The countries of Central Africa are known for their biodiversity. It is extremely important that the DRC, with support from international donors and partners, continue protecting the peatland areas.
Central Africa is learning lessons from the examples of other countries that poorly managed peatlands. The DRC is fortunate to be discovering peatlands that are already protected, and therefore it can avoid the mistakes made by other tropical countries that hastened to allocate these lands to a type of agriculture that was not sustainable.
CIFOR-ICRAFharnesses the power of trees, forests and agroforestry landscapes to address the most pressing global challenges of our time – biodiversity loss, climate change, food security, livelihoods and inequity.

Title: Ebola epidemic declared in northeast DR Congo, WHO confirms one death | Africanews
Please select your experience
Copy/paste the script below
OTHER WIDGETS
The World Health Organization (WHO) have confirmed the return of the deadly Ebola virus to the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) after three years.
The WHO said DRC’s Ministry of Health notified them on May 11, 2017 of a confirmed case of the deadly disease.
One death has since been reported, with Reuters news agency quoting a WHO spokesman, Eric Kabambi, as saying “It (the case) is in a very remote zone, very forested, so we are a little lucky. We always take this very seriously.”
The last outbreak of Ebola in Congo was in 2014 and dozens of people died. The AFP had earlier reported that the number of deaths was three.
The#Ebolacase in the Democratic Republic of Congo was confirmed by a national reference laboratory in Kinshasa#DRC
— WHO African Region (@WHOAFRO)May 12, 2017
WHO and partners are supporting the Ministry of Health of the Democratic Republic of the Congo on the#Ebolaresponse.#DRC
— WHO (@WHO)May 12, 2017
Important to trace ppl who hv contact w/ the confirmed#Ebolacase in the Democratic Rep. of Congo to stop the disease from spreading#DRC
— WHO (@WHO)May 12, 2017
WHO’s swift response to the latest outbreak is being viewed as a way the organisation is saving face following a damning report published in late 2015, that blamed WHO for failing to respond soon enough to the 2014 Ebola crisis in West Africa that left more than 11,000 people dead.
‘‘The WHO Country Office in the DRC is working closely with the national and provincial authorities and with the WHO Regional Office for Africa, WHO headquarters in Geneva and all other partners to facilitate deployment of health workers and protective kits in the field to strengthen epidemiological surveillance and rapidly control the epidemic’’, says Dr Yokouidé Allarangar, WHO representative in the DRC.
Dr Allarangar also announced that Dr Matshidiso Moeti, WHO Regional Director for Africa, would arrive in Kinshasa this weekend to attend a coordination meeting of the national committee at the Ministry of Health to deal with this emergency and ensure that WHO provides all necessary assistance to the DRC.
