Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-21 22:41Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Zambia : SACCORD Commends DRC Catholic Bishops for Seeking Guidance From Zambian Christian Counterparts


To subscribe, simply enter your email address on our website or click the subscribe button below. Don't worry, we respect your privacy and won't spam your inbox. Your information is safe with us.
Share
President Edgar Lungu shake hands with Vice Chair of the Conference of Catholic Bishops of Democratic Republic of Congo Bishop Fridolin Ambongo whilst Secretary General of the Conference of Catholic Bishops of Democratic Republic of Congo Bishop Donatien Nshole shortly meeting the President at State HouseThe Southern African Centre for Constructive Resolutions of Disputes (SACCORD) has commended the Catholic Bishops from the neighbouring Democratic Republic of Congo for showing humility by seeking guidance from their Zambian counterparts.
Commenting on the gesture by DRC Catholic Bishops to visit their Christian counterparts from Zambia for guidance, SACCORD Executive Director Boniface Cheembe noted that the gesture by the DRC Catholic Bishops demostrated an earnest call and desire for their country to have peaceful elections and asher into office a legitimate government.
“SACCORD welcomes and commends the Catholic Bishops from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) for being humble to come and get guidance from their fellow Christians in Zambia.
“Their being humble is an earnest call and desire for the DRC to have peaceful elections and ensure that the DRC puts in a place a legitimate government that will govern the country for the next five years,” he said.
And Cheembe said his organisation welcomes the position taken by Republican President Edgar Lungu who is the chairperson for the SADC organ on Peace, Defense and Security, to appeal to the DRC to have all candidates wishing to participate in the elections to be allowed to do so.
He explained that a strong demicracy lies in ensuring that people wishing to participate are allowed to do so without any hinderance.
“Democracy that is inclusive and allows for the free participation of everyone is durable and forms a solid foundation for peace. We want to encourage the DRC Bishops to ensure that they include other Christian and non-christian faiths in that country to participate in the dialogue and peace process of that country. This spirit of inclusivity is in line with the appeal that all eligible candidates in the DRC should be allowed to contest.
“Although Zambia has largely been peaceful we believe that one of the biggest lesson to be learned by stakeholders is to ensure that consultations must be broad and that at times need may arise to cross borders and consult with the DRC or indeed any other country. What the DRC Bishops have done is to show high levels of commitment and boldness to peace which is something that we as a nation must continue to nurture and appreciate,” he said.
I just loved the words from Lungu “The elections must be inclusive “
Hypocrites!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Comments are closed.
Read more
Company
Trending
Categories
© Lusaka Times
Subscribe now to keep reading and get access to the full archive.
Type your email…
Subscribe
Continue reading

Title: Rwanda: Ebola Preparedness Emergency Plan of Action (EPoA) - DREF Operation n° MDRRW017 - Rwanda | ReliefWeb
Rwanda
Description of the disaster
Following the declaration of the 9th Ebola Disease Outbreak (EVD) on 8th May 2018 by the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) Ministry of Health, the WHO has raised the alert for neighbouring countries of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) which share extensive borders, hosting DRC refugees and are used as corridors for DRC population movement. On 1 August 2018, just one week after the declaration of the end of the Ebola outbreak in Equator province, the 10th Ebola epidemic of the DRC was declared in the provinces of North Kivu and Ituri, which are among the most populated provinces in the DRC that also share borders with Uganda and Rwanda.
The provinces have been experiencing intense insecurity and a worsening humanitarian crisis, with over one million internally displaced people (IDPs) and a continuous efflux of refugees to neighbouring countries, including Uganda, Burundi and Tanzania. Population mobility, including crossborder movements, were identified as a significant risk for disease transmission in this outbreak due to the high number of traders and miners, displaced populations and insecurity caused by rebels and militias in the area (Source IOM, 15 August 2018). Additionally, the security situation in North Kivu may hinder the implementation of response activities. Based on this context, the public health risk is considered high at the national and regional levels.
Since EVD outbreak in DRC continues to spread, WHO has been sending Preparation Support Team (PST) missions to neighbouring countries of DRC to review EVD readiness and support preparedness strategies with government and other stakeholders including RC/RC National Societies. According to their risk profiles, the WHO has categorized four countries i.e. Rwanda, Uganda, South Sudan, and Burundi as Priority-1 and remaining five other countries- Angola, Congo, Central African Republic, Tanzania, and Zambia are Priority-2. The prioritization was done based on their capacity to manage EVD and viral haemorrhagic fever (VHF) outbreaks, and their connections and proximity to the areas currently reporting EVD cases.
The RC/RC National Societies have been supporting the government’s efforts in updating EVD contingency plans and strategies in the early detection/surveillance of cross border population movement, training of volunteers to undertake typical EVD response activities related to infection, prevention and control (IPC), risk communication, social mobilization and community engagement, safe and dignified burials (SDB), psychosocial support and National Society capacity building and preparing for future outbreaks.
North Kivu (Beni), the affected area in DRC, is just 370 kms from Rubavu in Rwanda, which borders DRC through the town of Goma. Population movement is remarkable in that border specific area with approximately 45,000 to 60,000 people reported to cross daily for trading and private business. Rwanda is a highly populated country with a population of around 12 million and this population density is at threat to a possible Ebola outbreak from across the border in DRC. Indeed, as per WHO risk profile, four countries have been categorized as Priority 1 – this includes Rwanda, Uganda, South Sudan, and Burundi.
Eleven districts are considered most at risk of the outbreak. These are Rusizi, Nyamasheke, Karongi, Rutsiro, Rubavu (bordering DRC), Nyabihu, Musanze, Burera, Gicumbi and Nyagatare (bordering Uganda) and Kigali city (comprised of 3 localities). Kigali is also at risk because of the Kigali international airport and high population density of the city
As such, the emergency preparedness operation focuses on community-based surveillance and contact tracing, safe and dignified burials (SDB), risk communication, social mobilization and community engagement, disinfection of households and psychosocial support. The planned response reflects the current situation and information available at this time and will be revised based on further developments and more detailed assessments.
Considering Rwanda Red Cross`s experience and skill in EVD preparedness, the government has identified a key partner risk communication, social mobilization and community engagement and PSS. Therefore, the proposed DREF operation seeks CHF 93,625 to support 1,250,000 people in preventing an EVD outbreak for 3 months.
Rwanda
Rwanda
Rwanda
Rwanda+ 2 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: DRC settles 90 cases in Oghi
MANSEHRA: The Dispute Resolution Council (DRC) has settled 90 percent of the case during the first year of its launching in Oghi tehsil.“We have received a total of 166 complaints since the inception of this statutory entity in July last year and could settle 148 of them bringing a major relief to people in tehsil,” Qazi Khalid, the general secretary of the statutory body, told reporters on Wednesday. Khalid, who released the annual report of DRC Oghi, said that settling disputes out-of-court was the need of the hours. “The DRC reduce cases burden on courts and if we could manage this system more effectively in future, we could further address such disputes and pass on relief to people,” he added.
“We have received a total of 166 complaints since the inception of this statutory entity in July last year and could settle 148 of them bringing a major relief to people in tehsil,” Qazi Khalid, the general secretary of the statutory body, told reporters on Wednesday. Khalid, who released the annual report of DRC Oghi, said that settling disputes out-of-court was the need of the hours. “The DRC reduce cases burden on courts and if we could manage this system more effectively in future, we could further address such disputes and pass on relief to people,” he added.
Inflation is decreasing in Pakistan and relief has been provided on electricity bills, she says
“If the government wants it, I could bring the government and the opposition on table on issue of constitutional...
The policeman was presently deployed at the Bus Rapid Transit
Court fixed September 25 for further hearing of bail application
PTI is striving to work for an independent judiciary and a true democratic system, says Qaiser
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-21 22:41Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: DRC: More confirmed Ebola cases in Beni, Mabalako | CIDRAP
EC / ECHO,  Anouk Delafortrie / Flickr cc
The Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) continued over the weekend, with officials reporting 5 more confirmed or suspected cases, bringing the total to 121—91 confirmed and 30 probable.
As of yesterday, 81 people have died since the outbreak began at the start of August; 51 of those deaths occurred in confirmed cases. Fourteen suspected cases are under investigation, officials said.
New data from the DRC released Sep 2 showed there have been more Ebola cases in women during this outbreak, and the most affected age-group among women is 25 to 34. Men ages 35 to 44 are most likely to have been infected.
Children in the DRC started school yesterday in Beni and Mangina, the epicenters of the outbreak where the new cases have occurred, officials said.
A teachers union in Beni expressed concerns about their role in the Ebola outbreak, but talks between union leaders and outbreak response team members did not delay the beginning of the school year.
Last week, officials said school would start on time this year, with enhanced hygiene practices and surveillance measures.
Since Aug 8, 5,946 people have been vaccinated against Ebola virus using Merck's unlicensed vaccone, including 3,076 in Mabalako, 1,633 in Beni, 1,067 in Mandima, 121 in Oicha, 30 in Katwa, and 19 in Kinshasa.
Three days ago, Peter Salama, MD, the WHO's director-general of emergency preparedness and response, confirmed on Twitter that 8,000 doses of the vaccine were in place in the DRC and will continued to be used in a ring vaccination campaign.
But despite ample supplies, World Health Organization (WHO) workers have an ongoing challenge with completing surveillance and vaccine activities in the region. Earlier today, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, PhD, tweeted about a violent attack near Beni.
"Just been briefed on a violent attack near Beni in DRC last night, an Ebola-affected area. All WHO staff safe. This is not acceptable. We condemn this attack and call for a cessation of hostilities. Ebola is dangerous to all: we must focus on fighting Ebola, not each other," he said.
Many WHO officials have said the most challenging aspect to this outbreak is its location, a border region where over 100 different militias and rebel groups fight for power. The area is also home to more than 1 million refugees.
See also
Aug 31 DRCreport
Sep 1 DRCreport
Sep 2 DRCreport
Sep 3 DRCreport
Peter Salama Twitterfeed
Tedros Ghebreyesus Twitterfeed
Also, sequencing confirmed N1 and identified two HA mutations, one of which could affect vaccine development.
The findings come on the cusp of the Northern Hemisphere flu and respiratory syncytial virus seasons and rising US COVID-19 cases.
A study suggesting thatnirmatrelvir/ritonavir and molnupiravir don't prevent severe COVID-19 outcomes or long COVID is also being called into question.
Before March 2024, H5N1 had not been detected in 1,337 wastewater samples analyzed by the team.
The new findings come from the ongoing RECOVER trial and build on results seen in a 2023 trial.
While sequencing shows similarity to the virus in cattle, the epi investigation might not be able to pinpoint a source.
Wastewater levels are still high, but some indicators such as hospitalizations trended downward.
Wastewater levels are still high, but like other markers are showing a downward trend.
The CDC received reports of 22 more imported cases over the past week, raising the total to 74 from 5 states.
Tests are under way on samples from five contacts who reported symptoms.
Help make CIDRAP's vital work possible
CIDRAP - Center for Infectious Disease Research & PolicyResearch and Innovation Office, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN
Email us
© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights Reserved.The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer
Research and Innovation Office|Contact U of M|Privacy Policy
Newsletter subscribe

Title: Human Rights and Democracy Report 2017 - Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) | Refworld
Search
Search
Search
The human rights situation in DRC continued to deteriorate in 2017. The UN Joint Human Rights Office (UNJHRO) recorded 6,495 abuses and violations in 2017, a 25% increase from 2016, which had itself seen a substantial increase from 2015. With President Kabila delaying elections until December 2018, there were a large number of reported human rights violations related to arbitrary arrests and imprisonments, extrajudicial executions by state agents, and attacks on freedom of speech and expression. State officials were identified as the main perpetrators, committing nearly two thirds of all human rights violations and abuses. The deterioration of the human rights situation in DRC has resulted from the increasingly unstable political crisis and violence in the Kasai provinces and eastern DRC.
The UK's work in DRC focused on protecting the political space, peacebuilding and preventing sexual and gender-based violence. Instances of human rights violations relating to the restriction of democratic space, including freedom of assembly and expression, significantly increased in 2017, with a reported 1,375 violations. Nearly half of these occurred from October to December, correlating with an increase in political protests in the latter part of the year. There were a number of restrictions on freedom of expression, including the violent suppression of protests and political rallies, and service providers being ordered to shut down internet services. There were also a significant number of arbitrary arrests and imprisonments. The UK Government lobbied the DRC government to open up the political space, including by releasing political prisoners and by respecting the right to peaceful assembly, and publicly condemned government forces' use of excessive violence.
2017 saw the emergence of a significant crisis in the three Kasai provinces with reports of disappearances, mass killings and torture. The UN found nearly 90 mass graves in the Kasais. The majority of the violations and abuses were carried out by government forces (FARDC) and pro-government groups. The UNJHRO reported that soldiers of the FARDC killed over 750 people. Local militia, including followers of the Kamwina Nsapu movement, also committed a number of human rights abuses. In February, footage emerged which seemed to show government forces shooting unarmed civilians. In March, two members of the UN Group of Experts investigating the situation in the Kasais were abducted and subsequently murdered: it is unclear who was responsible. The UK supported a resolution at the June session of the UN Human Rights Council (HRC) calling for the creation of an international investigation into the allegations of human rights violations and abuses in the Kasai region. The appointed investigative team will provide an oral update at the HRC's session in March 2018, followed by a comprehensive report to the HRC's June 2018 session.
UNJHRO documented an increase of adult victims of conflict-related sexual violence in 2017, with at least 533 victims. The vast majority were victims of sexual violence perpetrated by combatants of armed groups and by armed militiamen. In 2017, the UK continued to support a more effective legal response to sexual violence in conflict in DRC. One significant success was the conviction in the Kavumu trial in December, when a group of militiamen received life sentences for sexual abuses against over 40 children in South Kivu. The UK is also working with international partners to complete a joint evaluation of the impact of sexual violence programming in DRC. This is designed to inform more effective interventions by both the DRC government and the international community in the future.
In 2017, armed groups in eastern DRC were responsible for human rights abuses such as mass killings, sexual violence and torture. The UK focused on long-term stability and peacebuilding in eastern DRC through our contributions to MONUSCO (UN Organisation Stabilisation Mission in the DRC), the work of DFID, and programmes supported by the Conflict, Stability and Security Fund (CSSF). Through the CSSF, we supported respected Non-governmental Organisations Avocats Sans Frontières and Search for Common Ground to educate human rights defenders and promote conflict resolution. In May, the UK supported EU sanctions against nine individuals responsible for human rights violations and abuses and for obstructing the political process.
The female illiteracy rate in DRC is 29%[35]. DFID funded programmes on girls' education to improve access and quality of education for more than one million children, including reducing school-based violence.
In 2018, the UK will continue to focus on protecting the political space during the electoral period. We will monitor events closely and will raise any concerns over arrests, detentions and disappearances of opposition and civil society figures with the DRC government. The UK will also continue its work on the Preventing Sexual Violence in Conflict Initiative and deliver a second phase of the girls' education programme to support 75,000 girls. We will continue to encourage the DRC government, as an elected member of the HRC, to take active steps to improve respect for human rights. This includes encouraging active cooperation with the HRC investigation into the human rights violations and abuses in the Kasais.
[35] https://www.education-inequalities.org/indicators/literacy_1524#?sort=sex%3AFemale&dimension=sex&group=all&age_group=literacy_1524&countries=all
This is not a UNHCR publication. UNHCR is not responsible for, nor does it necessarily endorse, its content. Any views expressed are solely those of the author or publisher and do not necessarily reflect those of UNHCR, the United Nations or its Member States.

Title: UNICEF Uganda Humanitarian Situation Report - August 2018 - Uganda | ReliefWeb
Uganda+ 4 more
Highlights
Following the Ebola Virus Disease outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) on 1 August, UNICEF and partners are supporting the Government with preparedness efforts that include community mobilization, psychosocial support as well as water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) interventions in eight districts bordering the DRC.
Over 7,000 refugees from DRC and nearly 2,000 refugees from South Sudan arrived in Uganda in June-July 2018. Sixty per cent of the over 1.4 million refugees in Uganda are children in dire need of health, nutrition, WASH, protection and education services.
In the South Sudan and DRC refugee hosting settlements, nearly 90,000 children have received psychosocial support at child friendly spaces. In addition, 3,916 children with severe acute malnutrition have been provided with appropriate care.
Nearly 350,000 children were vaccinated against cholera in the high-risk sub counties of Hoima out of a targeted 361,000.
60,000 children, men, and women accessed safe waterin June and July 2018.
Situation Overview and Humanitarian Needs
Refugees:According to the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR), in June-July 2018, Uganda received over 7,000 refugees from DRC and nearly 2,000 refugees from South Sudan. Uganda continues to be home to over 1.5 million refugees and asylum seekers, with over 1 million from South Sudan, more than 300,000 from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), over 40,000 from Burundi, and nearly 40,000 from Somalia, among other countries.Data collection and assessment tools on measures, services and safeguards available for the protection of women and children in all refugee settlements in Uganda have been endorsed by an interagency task force that UNICEF is a part of. Uganda’s progressive refugee policy grants refugees freedom of movement, the right to seek employment and establish businesses, and access to public services such as education, health care and justice. In refugee hosting districts, services are integrated with government service delivery systems.
Disease outbreaks:Ebola PreparednessOn 1 August 2018, an Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) outbreak was declared in Mabalako Health zone, Beni territory, in the North Kivu Province of the DRC. The Ministry of Health (MoH) of Uganda and partners, including UNICEF, are supporting high risk districts to develop EVD preparedness and response plans and put in place contingency measures to respond to any case that may be reported in the future.
Cholera OutbreakUganda, through the MoH, has contained a cholera outbreak in 6 out of the 10 districts that were affected since February. Cholera cases are still active in the districts of Kampala, Mbale, Kween and Bulambuli. The cholera outbreak in Hoima, Kyegegwa and Kagadi districts, associated with the influx of DRC refugees, was controlled by a multi-sectoral response by MoH and partners using traditional interventions (surveillance/laboratory, social mobilization, WASH, case management) in addition to the Oral Cholera Vaccine.
Other OutbreaksOther outbreaks affecting women and children are Crimean-Congo Haemorrhagic Fever in the districts of Kakumiro, Isingiro and Mukono districts 2 where eight cases including three deaths occurred, representing a case fatality rate (CFR) of 37.5 per cent; an ongoing Anthrax outbreak in Kween (Eastern Uganda), Arua (West Nile) and Kiruhura (Western Uganda), with seven cases confirmed; and 12 districts3 with confirmed outbreaks of Rift Valley Fever (RVF), including 43 cases with 7 reported deaths CFR of 16.3 per cent. The MoHhas also announced an outbreak of measles in 73 districts across the country, the most affected districts beingAmuru, Gulu, Bullisa, Oyam,Kole and Bundibugyo. In Bundibugyo,the cumulative number of cases admitted in government facilities is 230.
Uganda+ 5 more
Uganda+ 5 more
Uganda+ 1 more
Uganda+ 5 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Depositor-Related Credit Updates by OCC
8New Articles
New Articles
On September 12, 2018, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC“) released itsfirst update to the “Deposit-Related Credit”booklet of the Comptroller’s Handbook (the “DRC Booklet“) since its March 2015 release.  (The OCC initially released a widely-critiqued DRC Booklet in February of 2015 as a replacement to its “Credit Check” booklet, but this release was quickly withdrawn.)  The DRC Booklet provides guidance to OCC examiners in their review of “deposit-related credit” (“DRC Products“) which typically constitute small-dollar, unsecured credit products related to a consumer’s deposit account, such as “check credit,” “overdraft protection services,” or “deposit advance products.”
Importantly, this is the first revision to the DRC Booklet since theOCC’s rescission of its guidance entitled “Supervisory Concerns and Expectations Regarding Deposit Advance Products” and corresponding OCC Bulletin 2013-40that had effectively precluded banks subject to OCC supervision from offering deposit advance products.As we have previously discussed, the OCC recently has taken positive, if sometimes contradictory, steps towards encouraging banks to offer small-dollar credit, and the updated DRC Booklet appears to be another positive step forward.  Among other things, it removes examination procedures related to burdensome “ability to repay” requirements as well as references to OCC Bulletin 2013-40’s risk management expectations.
The OCC’s revisions also attend to various housekeeping matters, such as the incorporation of recentOCC Bulletin 2018-14, “Installment Lending: Core Lending Principles for Short-Term, Small-Dollar Installment Lending,”OCC Bulletin 2017-21: “Third-Party Relationships” andOCC Bulletin 2017-43: New, Modified, or Expanded Bank Products and Services–Risk Management Principles,” and they integrate the Dodd-Frank concept of “unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices.”  Finally, the DRC Bulletin has been revised to clarify certain provisions of the Military Lending Act as they relate to DRC Products.
As we have noted, financial institutions such as national and federal savings banks may have opportunities to structure DRC Products that will not only fall outside the CFPB’s small-dollar rule but also meet supervisory expectations, produce substantial revenues and provide credit to otherwise credit-limited consumers.  (And at least one major financial institution has already launched a program in this changing regulatory environment.)  The revisions to the DRC Bulletin are yet another indication of the OCC’s increased permissiveness of DRC and other small-dollar products, and we will continue to provide updates on these regulatory changes as they occur.

Sign Up for e-NewsBulletins

You are responsible for reading, understanding, and agreeing to the National Law Review's (NLR’s) and the National Law Forum LLC'sTerms of UseandPrivacy Policybefore using the National Law Review website. The National Law Review is a free-to-use, no-log-indatabaseof legal and business articles. The content and links onwww.NatLawReview.comare intended for general information purposes only. Any legal analysis, legislative updates, or other content and links should not be construed as legal or professional advice or a substitute for such advice. No attorney-client or confidential relationship is formed by the transmission of information between you and the National Law Review website or any of the law firms, attorneys, or other professionals or organizations who include content on the National Law Review website. If you require legal or professional advice, kindly contact an attorney or other suitable professional advisor.
Some states have laws and ethical rules regarding solicitation and advertisement practices by attorneys and/or other professionals. The National Law Review is not a law firm nor iswww.NatLawReview.comintended to be a referral service for attorneys and/or other professionals. The NLR does not wish, nor does it intend, to solicit the business of anyone or to refer anyone to an attorney or other professional.  NLR does not answer legal questions nor will we refer you to an attorney or other professional if you request such information from us.
Under certain state laws, the following statements may be required on this website and we have included them in order to be in full compliance with these rules. The choice of a lawyer or other professional is an important decision and should not be based solely upon advertisements. Attorney Advertising Notice: Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. Statement in compliance with Texas Rules of Professional Conduct. Unless otherwise noted, attorneys are not certified by the Texas Board of Legal Specialization, nor can NLR attest to the accuracy of any notation of Legal Specialization or other Professional Credentials.
The National Law Review - National Law Forum LLC 2070 Green Bay Rd., Suite 178, Highland Park, IL 60035  Telephone  (708) 357-3317 or toll-free (877) 357-3317.  If you would like to contact us via email pleaseclick here.
Copyright ©2024 National Law Forum, LLC

Title: Prensa Latina - Latin American News Agency
Trump on another debate with Harris in the US: “It’s too late”
Venezuela proposes to host Summit between China and Latin America
Blockade against Cuba motivated to harm, denounces foreign minister
Declaration of ZEDE as unconstitutional marks week in Honduras
Noboa’s electoral card, military bases to Ecuador
Guatemala to hire 4,000 teachers for high school
Anuncios Prensa Latina PUBLICIDAD
Anuncios Prensa Latina PUBLICIDAD
| TextSMSto8100with contentPLReceive 4 mesages x 25 cup
© 2016-2021 Prensa LatinaLatin American News Agency
Radio – Publications  – Videos – News by the minute.All Rigts Reserved.
St. E No 454 , Vedado,  Habana, Cuba.Phones: (+53) 7 838 3496, (+53) 7 838 3497, (+53) 7 838 3498, (+53) 7 838 3499Prensa Latina © 2021 .
Web Site developed by IT Division  Prensa Latina.

Title: Dramatic Repertory Co. Announces 2018/19 Season 
Broadway + NYC
Broadway
Off-Broadway
Off-Off Broadway
Cabaret
Dance
Opera
Classical Music
United States
Eastern
Central
Western
San Francisco / Bay Area
Central Virginia
Los Angeles
Costa Mesa
Birmingham
Milwaukee, WI
West End
WEST END
UK Regional
International
Canada
Australia / New Zealand
Europe
Asia
Latin America
Africa / Middle East
Entertainment
TV/Movies
Music
POPULAR
Dramatic Repertory Company (Keith PowellBeyland, Artistic Director) proudly announces its 2018/2019 Season of three Maine Premiere productions.
The season will launch with the Maine Premiere of c*ckbyMike Bartlett-- (also known as the cockfight play) - November 9 - 18, 2018. This will be followed by the Maine Premiere of FABULOSO byJohn Kolvenbach- March 8 - 17, 2019. We will conclude our season with the Winner of the 2014 Pulitzer Prize for Drama, the Maine Premiere of THE FLICK byAnnie Bakerin May 31 - June 9, 2019. All three productions will be performed at the Studio Theater at Portland Stage - 25A Forest Ave.
COCK byMike Bartlettwhich can be referred to as (the cockfight play) for publication, will feature Ian Carlsen (Equivocation, DRC),James Herrera(The Boston Trial of a Book Named Naked Lunch), Andrew Sawyer ([title of show], DRC), and Marjolaine Whittlesey (False Flag, DRC).Mike Bartlett's highly charged and deeply funny language play provides a unique look at sexual identity, infidelity, and the ways in which our emotions can overwhelm our actions. John has been in a stable relationship with his boyfriend for a number of years. But when they separate for a time, he unexpectedly falls in love with a woman. Torn between the two, filled with guilt and conflicting emotions, he doesn't know which way to turn. As the pressure mounts, a dinner with both parties is arranged, and a surprise guest arrives to make a lively foursome. They all want to know: Who is John? What is he? And what will his decision be? c*ckis prescribed to be performed with no props, set or pantomime, so all the focus is on the drama. Directed byKeith PowellBeyland & TessVan Horn, the show runs November 9 -18, 2018 at the Studio Theater at Portland Stage - (25A Forest Avenue, Portland).
FABULOSO byJohn Kolvenbach, Directed by Daniel Burson, featuresPeter Brown(Equivocation, DRC),Christopher Holt(Year of the Rooster, DRC), Janice O'Rourke (The Watson Intelligence, DRC) and Bess Welden (False Flag, DRC). Kate and Teddy are trapped in a soggy, lifeless marriage. Then Teddy's old friend Arthur arrives, bearing chaos, knives, songs and his fiance?e. FABULOSO is a domestic farce about the pleasure in bedlam and a working metaphor for bringing up babies. In this unique DRC production, the actors will alternate roles during the performance schedule. The show runs March 8 - 17, 2019 at the Studio Theater at Portland Stage - (25A Forest Avenue, Portland).
THE FLICK byAnnie Baker- WINNER! 2014 Pulitzer Prize for Drama.Matt Delamater(Equivocation, DRC), andCasey Turner(Venus in Fur, DRC) - additional cast to be announced. In a run-down movie theater in central Massachusetts, three underpaid employees mop the floors and attend to one of the last 35 millimeter film projectors in the state. A hilarious and heart-rending cry for authenticity in a fast-changing world. Directed byKeith PowellBeyland - performed May 31 - June 9, 2019 at the Studio Theater at Portland Stage - (25A Forest Avenue, Portland).
DRC is pleased to announce the beginning of our subscription program!https://drcsub.bpt.mewill link you directly or visitwww.dramaticrep.orgto learn more about becoming a DRC subscriber!
Tickets for all productions can be found online at http://www.dramaticrep.org.
DRC will continue its FuturePatrons program in 2018/2019. With FuturePatrons, theatre- goers 25 and under can see DRC shows for FREE!! Theatre is habit forming, and DRC wants to be a catalyst. DRCs innovative program strives to help build the next generation of theatre- goers. FuturePatron tickets are available day-of only, and require government-issued photo ID as proof of age. Seating is first-come, first-served and subject to availability.
Dramatic Repertory Company aims to make a dramatic difference in the community. DRC continues to establish a burgeoning reputation for provocative and professional productions. DRC intends to produce new and overlooked works that otherwise may never be seen in Maine, as well as provide fresh perspectives on classic works.
The Monmouth Community Players has announced the cast of their fall production of Dracula.
A hush fell over the audience at the Hill Center last March when Good Theater’s Executive/Artistic Director, Brain P. Allen, concluded his curtain speech with the news that the current  production of A MAN OF NO IMPORTANCE would be the last for the GOOD THEATER on Munjoy Hill. The theatre company, which was celebrating more than twenty years as the resident company of what had formerly been known as The St. Lawrence Center for the Arts, had lost its home, and Portland was about to lose one of its most vibrant professional theatres.
The Manhattan Short Film Festival has announced its lineup for 2024, featuring films from around the world.
Mad Horse Theatre will present WITCH by Jen Silverman on October 10th, marking the start of its 39th season. Learn how to purchase tickets.
Videos
Maine SHOWS
Recommended For You
Sign up for announcements, and exclusive discounts on tickets to your favorite shows!
© 2024 - CopyrightWisdom Digital Media, all rights reserved.Privacy Policy

Title:   Warriors face defining  DRC double -Newsday Zimbabwe
  
AMH is an independent media house free from political ties or outside influence.
We have four newspapers: The Zimbabwe Independent, a business weekly published every Friday, The Standard, a weekly published every Sunday, and Southern and NewsDay, our daily newspapers. Each has an online edition.
THE Warriors face the biggest test of their 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) qualifier when they clash with Demoratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in back to back matches that will be played early next month.
BY KEVIN MAPASURE

Zimbabwe picked up a precious point when they played out a draw against Congo Brazaville on Sunday evening while DRC needed a late equaliser to rescue a point against Liberia.
The results left log leaders Zimbabwe and DRC, who both have four points, still carrying an advantage over the other two teams even though the Group is still open.
Having sat at the top of the log from the first round of matches, the biggest test comes when the Warriors travel to Kinshasa for the first match that will be played on October 10 before they host DRC on October 13 in Harare.

Zimbabwe will be looking to avoid defeat away from home and try to clinch all three points when they play at home.
Coach Sunday Chidzambga said before the Congo match that a point away from home is a good result.
Captain Knowledge Musona said he was disappointed that they did not get maximum points, but said a point away from home was still a good result.
“It’s a little disappointing that we drew, but a point is not bad playing away from home. We all know that we can do better. Well done guys I’m really proud of you,” he said in a tweet after the match.

Zimbabwe and DRC last played each other in 2000 and 2001 where each won their home game in Afcon qualifiers.
Chidzambga will be hoping that by the time they play DRC a number of injured players would have recovered.
The Warriors missed strikers Nyasha Mushekwi, Tino Kadewere and Ovidy Karuru while midfielder Marvelous Nakamba and defender Costa Nhamoinesu who are both based in Europe also failed to make it due to injuries.
On the other hand the coach had also called in the pair of Tendayi Darikwa and Adam Chicksen but the two failed to secure Zimbabwean passports on time.
They also had a half-fit Khama Billiat, who went on to score the important goal that clinched the single point.
Billiat had been struggling with a hamstring injury.
Despite all these problems, Zimbabwe still managed a draw in a match they probably should have won.
Importantly, everything is still in their own hands and they know that if they can collect four points against DRC, they will be closer to qualifying for the finals that will be hosted by Cameroon.
Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers!
&copy2024. NewsDay Zimbabwe. All rights reserved.

Title:   Warriors face defining  DRC double -Newsday Zimbabwe
  
AMH is an independent media house free from political ties or outside influence.
We have four newspapers: The Zimbabwe Independent, a business weekly published every Friday, The Standard, a weekly published every Sunday, and Southern and NewsDay, our daily newspapers. Each has an online edition.
THE Warriors face the biggest test of their 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (Afcon) qualifier when they clash with Demoratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in back to back matches that will be played early next month.
BY KEVIN MAPASURE

Zimbabwe picked up a precious point when they played out a draw against Congo Brazaville on Sunday evening while DRC needed a late equaliser to rescue a point against Liberia.
The results left log leaders Zimbabwe and DRC, who both have four points, still carrying an advantage over the other two teams even though the Group is still open.
Having sat at the top of the log from the first round of matches, the biggest test comes when the Warriors travel to Kinshasa for the first match that will be played on October 10 before they host DRC on October 13 in Harare.

Zimbabwe will be looking to avoid defeat away from home and try to clinch all three points when they play at home.
Coach Sunday Chidzambga said before the Congo match that a point away from home is a good result.
Captain Knowledge Musona said he was disappointed that they did not get maximum points, but said a point away from home was still a good result.
“It’s a little disappointing that we drew, but a point is not bad playing away from home. We all know that we can do better. Well done guys I’m really proud of you,” he said in a tweet after the match.
Zimbabwe and DRC last played each other in 2000 and 2001 where each won their home game in Afcon qualifiers.

Chidzambga will be hoping that by the time they play DRC a number of injured players would have recovered.
The Warriors missed strikers Nyasha Mushekwi, Tino Kadewere and Ovidy Karuru while midfielder Marvelous Nakamba and defender Costa Nhamoinesu who are both based in Europe also failed to make it due to injuries.
On the other hand the coach had also called in the pair of Tendayi Darikwa and Adam Chicksen but the two failed to secure Zimbabwean passports on time.
They also had a half-fit Khama Billiat, who went on to score the important goal that clinched the single point.
Billiat had been struggling with a hamstring injury.
Despite all these problems, Zimbabwe still managed a draw in a match they probably should have won.
Importantly, everything is still in their own hands and they know that if they can collect four points against DRC, they will be closer to qualifying for the finals that will be hosted by Cameroon.
Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers!
&copy2024. NewsDay Zimbabwe. All rights reserved.

Title: mediacongo.net - Offre d'emploi - Finance and Administration Director

Johns Hopkins Center for Communication Programs

Job Title:Finance and Administration Director
Reports To: Chief of Party
Location: Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)
The Johns Hopkins Center for Communication Programs (CCP) was founded on the belief that social and behavior change (SBC) is key to solving the world’s most pressing health problems. Our mission is to inspire and empower people around the world to make healthy choices for themselves and their families. CCP will be implementing the USAID Breakthrough-ACTION-DRC (BA/DRC) project that will use state-of-the-art, evidence-based tools to encourage people in developing countries to adopt healthy behaviours. Much of the work will harness the power of communication – from mass media campaigns to TV and radio dramas to simple posters in a health clinic – to inspire long-lasting change. The project will also take advantage of other behavioral science approaches such as behavioral economics and human-centered design to improve programs.
Essential Duties and Responsibilities
The Finance and Administration Director will oversee the financial, administrative and operational functions of the project including: finance, human resources, logistics, security, procurements (excluding sub awards which are monitored through CCP HQ), and local compliance with USAID regulations. The Finance and Administration Director also oversees the timely issuance of local contracts issued under the cooperative agreement and procurement of commercial goods and commercial services. S/he also oversees local cost share within the project. The Finance and Administration Director reports to the BA/DRC Chief of Party and carries out their duties to CCP HQ under the direction (matrixed) of the CCP HQ Finance Director adhering to the policies and procedures set out for CCP’s field offices.
Responsibilities will include but are not limited to:
* Overseeing all in country financial functions:
* Overseeing all administrative functions:
* Overseeing and supervise all Human Resource (HR) functions:
* Overseeing and supervise security functions
* Other duties as assigned.
The proposed Finance and Administration Director must meet or exceed all of the following specific requirements:
Applications: Interested applications should send the following items toBA.DRC.Jobs@gmail.comon or before 5PM ESTSeptember 19, 2018, with the subject line: “DRC Fin/Admin Director”:
1. A detailed cover letter including:
2. An up-to-date CV
Submissions that do not have the correct subject line, that do not include the requested documents, or are received after the deadline will not be considered.
Désengorgement carcéral à Makala : 648 détenus libérés par le ministre Constant Mutamba, dans le cadre de la réforme pénitentiaire initiée par le Président Tshisekedi
Sénat : 72 heures aux sénateurs pour constituer les commissions permanentes et groupes politiques
Ligue des champions de la CAF : Mazembe et Maniema Union se qualifient pour la phase des groupes
Tournoi " All Star Game University" de Rawbank : après la phase préparatoire, place à la compétition
Rawbank et Street Child United lancent le programme de développement "1 million d'espoirs" pour les enfants en RDC
Au Forum économique RDC-Chine : Kizito PAKABOMBA dévoile aux investisseurs les opportunités du secteur minier congolais
OFFRE D'EMPLOI

Ils nous font confiance