Title: 
Chinese envoy urges int'l community to help DRC on security, humanitarian development - Xinhua | English.news.cn


Wu Haitao (R, front), China's deputy permanent representative to the United Nations, addresses the Security Council meeting on the situation in Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), at the UN headquarters in New York, July 24, 2019. Wu Haitao on Wednesday called on the international community to increase its input to help the Democratic Republic of the Congo to overcome its challenges in security, humanitarian development, and others fields. (Xinhua/Li Muzi)
UNITED NATIONS, July 24 (Xinhua) -- A Chinese envoy on Wednesday called on the international community to increase its input to help the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) to overcome its challenges in security, humanitarian development, and others fields.
Wu Haitao, China's deputy permanent representative to the United Nations, told a Security Council meeting on the situation concerning the DRC that the situation in the DRC is stable on the whole at present, with the national and provisional legislative and executive institutions installed and its economy enjoying steady development.
These positive developments demonstrate that the DRC government has the ability and will to maintain the stability of the country and the effectiveness of the work of MONUSCO -- the UN peacekeeping mission in the DRC, he said.
Meanwhile, the DRC is still facing challenges, said Wu, adding that the security situation in the eastern region is still grim. It is necessary to assist the DRC with security capacity building.
Peace and stability are the foundation and guarantee for the DRC to advance its political process and realize economic and social development, he said.
The government of the DRC bears the primary responsibility for safeguarding its national security and stability, said Wu, adding that the international community should respect the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the DRC and fully respect the leadership of the government in handling its own affairs.
All international partners should help to push the armed groups in the country to give up military options and find solutions through dialogue and consultation, he said.
Wu also warned the Ebola outbreak in DRC has worsened, saying it has a great risk of spillover.
There is a need to help the DRC government bring the Ebola outbreak under control as soon as possible, Wu said, adding economic support should continue to be provided to the DRC government.
"International partners should focus on increasing investment in education, health care, infrastructure, and other sectors to help the DRC to increase employment, to improve people's livelihood, to restore its economic development, and to tackle the root causes of the conflict," the Chinese envoy said.
On July 17, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared Ebola in the DRC as a public health emergency of international concern.
Speaking at the same meeting Wednesday morning, Leila Zerrougui, the UN secretary-general's special representative for the DRC, said that the Ebola epidemic has now claimed the lives of more than 1,700 people.
Talking about the UN mission in the DRC, the Chinese envoy said that "sanctions are not an end, but a means to an end".
The UN Security Council on June 26 extended the sanctions regime on the DRC until July 1, 2020. The resolutions impose an arms embargo on armed groups in the DRC, a travel ban on individuals and asset freeze on individuals and entities designated by the Sanctions Committee.
"We hope that the panel of experts will continue to work strictly within the parameters of its mandate supporting the efforts of the DRC government to strengthen weapons management and eliminate the threat of armed groups," Wu said.
China hopes that MONUSCO will continue to increase coordination and communication with the DRC government and actively fulfill its mandated functions, said the envoy, adding that the international community must continue to lend active support to the work of the mission.
According to Wu, since last year, China has provided emergency humanitarian assistance for the prevention and control of Ebola in the DRC through bilateral and multilateral channels, and sent expert groups to the DRC and Uganda to support their anti-epidemic efforts.
China will continue to provide all necessary assistance to the best of ability to Ebola prevention and control in light of the Ebola dynamics on the ground and the needs of the African countries, he said.

Title: Communiqué of the 862nd meeting of the PSC, held on 23 July 2019, on the outbreak of Ebola in the Eastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWeb
DR Congo
COMMUNIQUE
Adopted by the Peace and Security Council (PSC) at its 862nd meeting held on 23 July 2019, on the outbreak of Ebola in the Eastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC),
The Peace and Security Council,
Recalling the relevant provisions of the Protocol Relating to the Establishment of the Peace and Security Council of the African Union, in particular, Articles 6(f) and 7(p) relating to aspects of the mandate of the PSC with regard to humanitarian action and disaster management;
Noting the remarks by H.E. Mrs. Amira ElFadil, Commissioner for Social Affairs and the presentation by Dr. John Nkengasong, Director of the Center for Disease Control (Africa CDC) of the African Union on the outbreak of the Ebola Virus Disease (EVD) in the DRC;
Also noting, with grave concern, that the EVD outbreak in the DRC is the second worst outbreak since the 2014-2016 Ebola outbreak in West Africa
Expressing grave concern over the Ebola virus outbreak in the DRC, in particular the risk of spilling over to other parts of the country and other countries of the region,
Noting that, on 17 July 2019, the EVD outbreak in the DRC has been declared by the World Health Organization (WHO) as a public health emergency of international concern;
Further noting the Joint Press release of the Africa CDC and the World Health Organization (WHO) of 19 July 2019, expressing gratitude to all AU Member States for the close collaboration with and support to the EVD outbreak response;
Expressing solidarity to the Government and people of the DRC, and reaffirming its commitment and readiness to continue supporting the DRC in eliminating and controlling the spreading of the EVD.
Acting under Article 7 of its Protocol, the Peace and Security Council:
Underscores that the outbreak of EVD in the DRC is a source of grave concern, as well as a serious threat to peace and security in DRC, the region and the continent as a whole, and emphasizes the need for urgent measures to be taken to control the disease and eliminate its spreading to other parts of the country or neighboring countries;
Strongly condemns the attacks against public health centres and health workers in the eastern part of the DRC and urges all armed groups in Eastern DRC to observe an immediate ceasefire to allow public health workers to fulfill their mandate, consisting in saving lives of innocent civilians; Further urges the Government of DRC, in close cooperation with the AU and the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the DRC (MONUSCO) to provide the necessary protection to the health workers and public health centers;
Recognizes the seriousness of the security implications of the current Ebola outbreak, noting with deep concern that three of affected the most affected areas of the Eastern part of the country are experiencing security challenges; stresses that the Ebola outbreak has the potential to undermine the tremendous progress made in the region; In this respect, Council calls for joint renewed efforts, both within Africa and from partners to combat the epidemic;
Underscores the need to develop, in close cooperation with the Government of DRC, local authorities and all relevant partners, an awareness and confidence building measures campaign with the Ebola-affected communities, with a view to secure their cooperation in efforts aimed at fighting the EVD;
Commends the Government of the DRC, the AU Commission and the WHO for the steps already taken in dealing with the Ebola outbreak, and welcomes the readiness and commitment of AU partners to support African efforts to this effect;
Decides, given the emergency situation caused by the Ebola outbreak, to authorize the immediate deployment of an AU Mission Against Ebola in DRC (MAEC), comprising medical doctors, laboratory experts, epidemiologists, nurses and other medical and paramedical personnel, as well as security personnel, as required for the protection of the Mission and treatment centers, in close coordination with the relevant DRC authorities and MONUSCO;
Requests the Commission, in close cooperation with the Government of the DRC, the WHO and MONUSCO, as well as the relevant partners and stakeholders to take, without further delay, the necessary steps to develop a Concept of Operations for the AU Mission authorized in paragraph 4 above, including its logistical, security, financial and other relevant aspects; Further requests the Chairperson of the AU Commission to undertake consultations on ways and means to ensure predictable and sustainable funding for health emergency situations in Africa and make proposals to the PSC;
Appeals to all neighboring countries to take necessary measures and precautions to control the spreading of the EVD and build awareness among the societies on precaution measures to be taken; Further appeals to all Member States not to close its borders or place any restriction on travel and cross-border trade;
Encourages all AU Member States, private sectors and the international community as a whole, to extend the necessary financial and technical support to the deployment of the AU Mission against Ebola outbreak in the DRC;
Decides to remain actively seized of the matter.
DR Congo
DR Congo
DR Congo+ 4 more
DR Congo+ 1 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: 
AU expresses grave concern over Ebola outbreak in DRC - Xinhua | English.news.cn


File photo shows medical workers prepare for the launch of the Ebola vaccination campaign in the Equateur province in northwestern Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). (Xinhua/Wang Songyu)

ADDIS ABABA, July 26 (Xinhua) -- The African Union (AU) has reiterated its grave concern over the Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).
The outbreak also presents a serious threat to peace and security in the country, the region and the African continent as a whole, according to an AU statement.
The Ebola virus has caused 1,621 deaths in the DRC as of July 17 in an outbreak that is the second largest in the history of Ebola since it was discovered in 1976.
The World Health Organization (WHO) last week declared the Ebola virus disease outbreak as public health emergency of international concern.
In its latest meeting, the AU Peace and Security Council deliberated on the outbreak of Ebola in the Eastern part of the DRC, whereby it called for urgent measures to control the disease and eliminate its spreading to other parts of the country or neighboring countries, said the statement.
Strongly condemning the attacks against public health centers and health workers in the eastern part of the DRC, the Council urged all armed groups in Eastern DRC to observe an immediate ceasefire to allow public health workers to fulfill their mandate, consisting in saving lives of innocent civilians.
It has further urged the government of DRC, in close cooperation with the AU and the UN Organization Stabilization Mission in the DRC (MONUSCO) to provide the necessary protection to the health workers and public health centers.
Expressing deep concern that three of affected the most affected areas of the Eastern part of the country are experiencing security challenges, the council said the outbreak has the potential to undermine the tremendous progress made in the region.
It called for joint renewed efforts, both within Africa and from partners to combat the epidemic.
It also decided to authorize the immediate deployment of an AU Mission Against Ebola in DRC (MAEC), comprising medical doctors, laboratory experts, epidemiologists, nurses and other medical and paramedical personnel, as well as security personnel, as required for the protection of the Mission and treatment centers, in close coordination with the relevant DRC authorities and MONUSCO.
It urged all AU member states not to close its borders or place any restriction on travel and cross-border trade.
The council called upon all AU member states, private sectors and the international community as a whole, to extend the necessary financial and technical support to the deployment of the AU Mission against Ebola outbreak in the DRC.

File photo shows medical workers prepare for the launch of the Ebola vaccination campaign in the Equateur province in northwestern Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). (Xinhua/Wang Songyu)

ADDIS ABABA, July 26 (Xinhua) -- The African Union (AU) has reiterated its grave concern over the Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).
The outbreak also presents a serious threat to peace and security in the country, the region and the African continent as a whole, according to an AU statement.
The Ebola virus has caused 1,621 deaths in the DRC as of July 17 in an outbreak that is the second largest in the history of Ebola since it was discovered in 1976.
The World Health Organization (WHO) last week declared the Ebola virus disease outbreak as public health emergency of international concern.
In its latest meeting, the AU Peace and Security Council deliberated on the outbreak of Ebola in the Eastern part of the DRC, whereby it called for urgent measures to control the disease and eliminate its spreading to other parts of the country or neighboring countries, said the statement.
Strongly condemning the attacks against public health centers and health workers in the eastern part of the DRC, the Council urged all armed groups in Eastern DRC to observe an immediate ceasefire to allow public health workers to fulfill their mandate, consisting in saving lives of innocent civilians.
It has further urged the government of DRC, in close cooperation with the AU and the UN Organization Stabilization Mission in the DRC (MONUSCO) to provide the necessary protection to the health workers and public health centers.
Expressing deep concern that three of affected the most affected areas of the Eastern part of the country are experiencing security challenges, the council said the outbreak has the potential to undermine the tremendous progress made in the region.
It called for joint renewed efforts, both within Africa and from partners to combat the epidemic.
It also decided to authorize the immediate deployment of an AU Mission Against Ebola in DRC (MAEC), comprising medical doctors, laboratory experts, epidemiologists, nurses and other medical and paramedical personnel, as well as security personnel, as required for the protection of the Mission and treatment centers, in close coordination with the relevant DRC authorities and MONUSCO.
It urged all AU member states not to close its borders or place any restriction on travel and cross-border trade.
The council called upon all AU member states, private sectors and the international community as a whole, to extend the necessary financial and technical support to the deployment of the AU Mission against Ebola outbreak in the DRC.
Copyright © 2000 - 2016 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.

Title: No title found


Title: DRC beat Kenya to clinch inaugural Afrocan title
Simply register at no cost.
Questions or problems? Email[email protected]or call0711 046 000.
• Kenya's Tylor Ongwae was the game's lead scorer with 21 points followed by DRC's Maxi Shamba with 20.
• Kenya was leading by a point halfway the game leading 37-36 at the end of the second quarter.
An accurate shooting DRC are the champions of theinaugural International Basketball Federation (FIBA) Afrocan tournament held in Bamako, Mali.
This was after beating Kenya 82-61 at the final hosted at the Palaise Des Sports Salamatou Maiga gymnasium.
DRC made more accurate shots at the basket with Kenya missing a large number of their chances.
Kenya made only 30 per cent of their two-point shots compared to their rivals who converted 65 per cent.
The teams were almost tied on their three-pointers with Kenya having a 27 per cent success compared to DRC's 26 per cent.
Kenya made the most of their free-throws converting 76 per cent of them compared to 55 per cent for DRC.
Kenya was leading by a point halfway the game leading 37-36 at the end of the second quarter.
DRC made their comeback widening the gap to 20 points in the third quarter with Kenya struggling to recover in the last one.
Kenya's biggest lead was six points while that of DRC was 26 points.
Kenya's Tylor Ongwae was the game's lead scorer with 21 points followed by DRC's Maxi Shamba with 20.
The Kenyan social media space has been a buzz with Kenyans rallying behind this team that has created history.
The team has been praised for the great run at the tournament with many calling on the government to support the game more.
The Morans set a date with the Congolese after rolling over Morocco 96-66 in a one-sided semi-final encounter.
DRC, on the other hand, stopped Angola 84-78 in the other semi.
Advertise with us: Call 0711 046 000·[email protected]


Title: Ebola case identified near South Sudan border | CIDRAP
World Bank, Vincent Tremeau / Flickr cc
An Ebola case-patient has been identified just 70 kilometers (43 miles) from the Democratic Republic of the Congo's (DRC) border with South Sudan, the Associate Press (AP) reported today. The story cited South Sudan's health ministry as the source of information.
Officials said the case is a contact of a known Ebola patient from Beni.
Last month, a 5-year-old boy found in Uganda became the first international case of Ebola in this 11-month long outbreak that has otherwise stayed confined to the DRC’s North Kivu and Ituri provinces. Uganda had in place for months an extensive surveillance and response protocol for Ebola border crossings, but officials in South Sudan told the AP they were not as prepared for the virus.
Today the DRC health ministry confirmed another 16 new cases of Ebola virus disease (EVD), raising outbreak totals to 2,354. Officials also confirmed 15 new case deaths, raising the fatality total to 1,586. A total of 402 suspected cases are under investigation.
Yesterday marked the first time a case has been confirmed in Ariwara health zone, which is located in Ituri province. The Ariwara patient is a mother of five sickened children, who traveled to Ariwara from Beni to hide from surveillance teams. Today the DRC confirmed she had died from the virus.
"To date, 177 family contacts have been listed in Ariwara and 40 contacts have already been vaccinated," the DRC said yesterday.
Today the DRC said an unvaccinated health worker in Beni is among the newly confirmed cases. This lifts the total number of healthcare workers infected to 127, including 40 deaths. Health workers represent 5% of cases in this outbreak.
"New EVD cases continue to occur in North Kivu and Ituri provinces, with continued fluctuating transmission intensity, reducing in previous hotspots, but increasing in areas with previously relatively low transmission rates," the World Health Organization's (WHO's) African regional office said yesterday in a weekly bulletin on the outbreak.
In the last 21 days, Mabalako, Beni and Mandima have been the main hotspots, with 33%, 24%, and 9% of newly confirmed cases. Transmission in these towns outpaces transmission in Katwa and Butembo, the main hotspots for the first half of 2019.
The WHO's regional office also highlighted the number of investigations currently undertaken in the DRC, including more than 16,000 case contacts followed up daily, and more than 1,500 alerts assessed in the past week, resulting in 309 suspected cases.
See also:
Jul 2 APstory
Jul 2 DRCupdate
Jul 1 DRCupdate
Jul 1 WHObulletin
Also, sequencing confirmed N1 and identified two HA mutations, one of which could affect vaccine development.
The findings come on the cusp of the Northern Hemisphere flu and respiratory syncytial virus seasons and rising US COVID-19 cases.
A study suggesting thatnirmatrelvir/ritonavir and molnupiravir don't prevent severe COVID-19 outcomes or long COVID is also being called into question.
Before March 2024, H5N1 had not been detected in 1,337 wastewater samples analyzed by the team.
The new findings come from the ongoing RECOVER trial and build on results seen in a 2023 trial.
While sequencing shows similarity to the virus in cattle, the epi investigation might not be able to pinpoint a source.
Wastewater levels are still high, but some indicators such as hospitalizations trended downward.
Wastewater levels are still high, but like other markers are showing a downward trend.
The CDC received reports of 22 more imported cases over the past week, raising the total to 74 from 5 states.
Tests are under way on samples from five contacts who reported symptoms.
Help make CIDRAP's vital work possible
CIDRAP - Center for Infectious Disease Research & PolicyResearch and Innovation Office, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN
Email us
© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights Reserved.The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer
Research and Innovation Office|Contact U of M|Privacy Policy
Newsletter subscribe

Title: 
AU, WHO urge countries to refrain from restrictions on travel, trade from Ebola-affected countries - Xinhua | English.news.cn

ADDIS ABABA, July 23 (Xinhua) -- The African Union (AU) and the World Health Organization (WHO) on Tuesday urged countries to refrain from closing borders or place any restrictions on travel and trade from the Ebola-affected countries.
The urgent call was made by the AU's Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) and the WHO Regional Office for Africa in a statement issued Tuesday, as they reiterated the need for all AU member countries to adhere to recommendations, emphasizing against possible restrictions on travel and trade with the Ebola-affected countries.
According to the AU, as of July 18, 2019, the Ministry of Public Health of the DRC reported 2,532 cases, in which some 2,438 confirmed and 94 probable, with 1,705 deaths and 718 cured, in an outbreak that is the second largest in the history of Ebola since it was discovered in 1976.
"No country should close its borders or place any restrictions on travel and trade, including general quarantine of travelers from the Ebola-affected countries, currently the DRC," the joint AU-WHO statement read.
According to the AU and WHO, such measures on restrictions on travel and trade from the Ebola-affected countries "compromises economies and impede response operations."
"There should be no requirement of certificates of Ebola vaccination for any movement across borders or for issuance of visas, as there is currently no licensed vaccine against Ebola," the joint statement read.
Noting that exit screening is recommended at international airports in affected countries, the two organizations also stressed that "entry screening at international airports or other ports of entry outside countries neighboring the DRC is not recommended as it is not effective and involves large amounts of resources."
"National authorities should work with airlines, airports and other transport and tourism industries to encourage communication and collaboration, and to ensure that the measures adopted are in line with WHO guidance for travel and transport during outbreaks," the joint statement read.
The joint call came after the WHO last week declared the ongoing Ebola virus disease outbreak in DRC as a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC).
The WHO, in declaring the DRC Ebola virus disease outbreak as PHEIC, mainly took into consideration the first confirmed case in Goma, a city of almost two million inhabitants and close to the border with Rwanda, and the gateway to the rest of DRC and the world, it was noted.
Noting that there have been five PHEIC declarations between 2009 and 2019, the two organizations also stressed that "the declaration of a PHEIC is a call to action."
"It is time for the African continent and indeed the world to redouble our efforts in solidarity with the DRC to end this outbreak and build a stronger health system," the joint statement read.
The AU, following the WHO's categorization of the Ebola virus outbreak as PHEIC, also on Saturday revealed its decision to deploy more healthcare experts to respond to the Ebola virus outbreak in the DRC.
"The AU will reactivate the African Voluntary Health Corps (AVoHC) and deploy them not just in the DRC but also in other countries within the region," John Nkengasong, Director of the Africa CDC, told a press conference at the AU headquarters in Ethiopia's capital Addis Ababa.
Africa CDC, which has been supporting response efforts in the DRC since August 2018, presently operates with 41 experts who were deployed in the field, some of whom are said to be AVoHC members.
The AU, which had previously deployed the AVoHC in West Africa to respond to the outbreak back in 2014 to 2015, said that the AVoHC "will be very useful in the current outbreak."
China, UAE pledge to boost comprehensive strategic partnership
Xinhua Headlines: China's 2nd place target at Tokyo 2020 challenged by host Japan
Nanxi Xianyuan Yangtze River Bridge opens to public traffic in China's Sichuan
Giant pandas fend off summer heatwave
Summer scenery of Beijing
In pics: West Lake in Hangzhou, east China's Zhejiang
Eco-China: Hainan famous for its fairly good air quality
In pics: horse lassoing in north China's Inner Mongolia

Title: AU, WHO Urge Countries To Refrain From Travel, Trade Restrictions From Ebola-Affected Countries  | General News |  Peacefmonline.com
The African Union (AU) and the World Health Organization (WHO) has urged countries to refrain from closing borders or placing restrictions on travel and trade from the Ebola-affected countries.The urgent call was made on Tuesday by the AU's Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) and the WHO Regional Office for Africa in a statement issued Tuesday, as they reiterated the need for all AU member countries to adhere to recommendations, emphasizing against possible restrictions on travel and trade with the Ebola-affected countries. According to the AU, as of July 18, 2019, the Ministry of Public Health of the DRC reported 2,532 cases, in which some 2,438 confirmed and 94 probable, with 1,705 deaths and 718 cured, in an outbreak that is the second largest in the history of Ebola since it was discovered in 1976. "No country should close its borders or place any restrictions on travel and trade, including general quarantine of travelers from the Ebola-affected countries, currently the DRC," the joint AU-WHO statement read.According to the AU and WHO, such measures on restrictions on travel and trade from the Ebola-affected countries "compromises economies and impede response operations.""There should be no requirement of certificates of Ebola vaccination for any movement across borders or for issuance of visas, as there is currently no licensed vaccine against Ebola," the joint statement read.Noting that exit screening is recommended at international airports in affected countries, the two organizations also stressed that "entry screening at international airports or other ports of entry outside countries neighboring the DRC is not recommended as it is not effective and involves large amounts of resources.""National authorities should work with airlines, airports and other transport and tourism industries to encourage communication and collaboration, and to ensure that the measures adopted are in line with WHO guidance for travel and transport during outbreaks," the joint statement read.The joint call came after the WHO last week declared the ongoing Ebola virus disease outbreak in DRC as a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC).The WHO, in declaring the DRC Ebola virus disease outbreak as PHEIC, mainly took into consideration the first confirmed case in Goma, a city of almost two million inhabitants and close to the border with Rwanda, and the gateway to the rest of DRC and the world, it was noted.Noting that there have been five PHEIC declarations between 2009 and 2019, the two organizations also stressed that "the declaration of a PHEIC is a call to action.""It is time for the African continent and indeed the world to redouble our efforts in solidarity with the DRC to end this outbreak and build a stronger health system," the joint statement read.The AU, following the WHO's categorization of the Ebola virus outbreak as PHEIC, also on Saturday revealed its decision to deploy more healthcare experts to respond to the Ebola virus outbreak in the DRC."The AU will reactivate the African Voluntary Health Corps (AVoHC) and deploy them not just in the DRC but also in other countries within the region," John Nkengasong, Director of the Africa CDC, told a press conference at the AU headquarters in Ethiopia's capital Addis Ababa. Africa CDC, which has been supporting response efforts in the DRC since August 2018, presently operates with 41 experts who were deployed in the field, some of whom are said to be AVoHC members.The AU, which had previously deployed the AVoHC in West Africa to respond to the outbreak back in 2014 to 2015, said that the AVoHC "will be very useful in the current outbreak."



Source: GNA



Comments ( 0 ): Post Your Comments >>


peacefmonline.com offers its reading audience with a comprehensive online source for up-to-the-minute news about politics, business, entertainment and other issues in Ghana
Follow us on social media:
© 2020Peacefmonline.com- An online portal owned and managed byDespite Media
© 2020Peacefmonline.com- An online portal owned and managed byDespite Media

Title: Democratic Republic of the Congo – Ebola Outbreak Fact Sheet #1, Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWeb
DR Congo+ 5 more
HIGHLIGHTS
Health actors confirm first EVD case in Goma
Insecurity in Beni continues to result in EVD responder deaths and hamper EVD response activities
More than 140 new confirmed cases recorded in Beni during past 21 days; the highest number of cases in affected health zones
MoH requests $287.6 million for EVD public health response activities
KEY DEVELOPMENTS
From June 30–July 14, the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (GoDRC) reported confirmed Ebola virus disease (EVD) cases in three previously unaffected health zones, including Ituri Province’s Ariwara Health Zone—located near the DRC’s border with South Sudan and Uganda—and North Kivu Province’s capital city of Goma—located on the DRC–Rwanda border. On July 17, the UN World Health Organization (WHO) declared the EVD outbreak a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC), citing recent events, including active transmission of EVD in eastern DRC and the first confirmed case in Goma.
As the EVD outbreak continues to spread, relief actors have bolstered EVD preparedness activities in eastern DRC and the neighboring countries of Burundi, Rwanda, South Sudan, and Uganda. In July, USAID-supported EVD response partners trained health care workers on effective infection control and prevention protocols in North Kivu’s Beni Health Zone, as well as bolstered screening of populations traveling between the DRC, South Sudan, and Uganda for EVD symptoms, referring individuals to health facilities, as necessary.
Since the start of the EVD outbreak in August 2018, USAID has provided more than $127.8 million in preparedness and response funding in the DRC and more than $8.6 million in preparedness funding to neighboring countries. USAID funding provides life-saving assistance—including infection prevention and control activities, training for health care workers, community engagement interventions, promotion of safe and dignified burials, and food assistance—to EVD-affected communities in the DRC.
DR Congo
Rwanda+ 2 more
DR Congo
DR Congo
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Fresher Diploma Jobs - Supply Chain Assistant - Logistics - Danish Refugee Council (DRC)
Job Title:Supply Chain Assistant –Logistics
Organisation:DanishRefugee Council (DRC)
Duty Station:Uganda
Reports to:ProjectSupport Manager
About US:
The Danish RefugeeCouncil (DRC) is a private, independent, humanitarian organization working onall aspects of the refugee cause in more than 36 countries throughout theworld. The aim of DRC is to protect refugees and internally displaced persons(IDPs) against persecution and to promote durable solutions to the problems offorced migration, on the basis of humanitarian principles and human rights. DRCworks in accordance with the UN Conventions on Refugees and the Code of Conductfor the ICRC and NGOs in Disaster Relief.
Job Summary:The Supply Chain Assistant – Logistics willprovide administrative and/or technical logistics and procurement support,ensuring efficient and effective procurement implementation and smooth runningof procurement operations according to DRC’s internal and donor procedures, asper the Operations Handbook and Quality Standards contained within.
Key Duties and Responsibilities:
Administration
Fleet Management


Qualifications, Skills and Experience:
How to Apply:
All candidatesshould send their online applications at the link below.
ClickHere
Deadline: 10thJuly 2019
For more of thelatest jobs, please visithttps://www.theugandanjobline.comorfind us on our Facebook pagehttps://www.facebook.com/UgandanJobline

Job Title:   Travel Assistant Organisation: United States US Embassy, US Mission…
Job Title:  Forest Finance and Investment Technical Advisor (UN Jobs)…
Job Title:  Intern (Several Fresh Graduate No Experience Jobs) Organisation: British…
Job Title:  Front Office Customer Service Representative / Documentation Officer…
Job Title:  Senior Risk Officer    Organisation: Britam Asset Managers…
Job Title:  Marketing Agent   Organisation: Radiant Tours & Travel…

For employers, please send your adverts and inquiries to ugandanjobline@gmail.com
Popular JobsConsultancy – TOR – Independent Financial Audit of Handicap International Federation East Africa Region (EAR)-Kenya, Uganda and Rwanda.9 min readTerms of Reference – Independent Financial Audit of Handicap InternationalRead MoreElectric Technician Jobs – Tenza Flour Mills Ltd.2 min readJob Title:  Electric Technician Company Name: Tenza Flour Mills Ltd.Read More2 Fresher Cafeteria Attendant Jobs – Pharmaceutical Company2 min readJob Title:   Cafeteria Attendant (2 Fresher Jobs) Organisation: Pharmaceutical Company DutyRead MoreProduct Officer Jobs – KCB Bank Uganda Limited4 min readJob Title:   Product Officer Organisation: KCB Bank Uganda Limited DutyRead MoreParticipatory Integrated Planning Specialist NGO Jobs – GOAL Uganda9 min readJob Title: Participatory Integrated Planning Specialist Location: Jinja, Uganda ReportsRead More
Terms of Reference – Independent Financial Audit of Handicap InternationalRead More
Job Title:  Electric Technician Company Name: Tenza Flour Mills Ltd.Read More
Job Title:   Cafeteria Attendant (2 Fresher Jobs) Organisation: Pharmaceutical Company DutyRead More
Job Title:   Product Officer Organisation: KCB Bank Uganda Limited DutyRead More
Job Title: Participatory Integrated Planning Specialist Location: Jinja, Uganda ReportsRead More




Title: 
Uganda, DR Congo launch regional cargo tracking system - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KAMPALA, July 10 (Xinhua) -- Tax authorities of Uganda and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) on Tuesday launched a Regional Electronic Cargo Tracking System (RECTS) to reduce the risk of freight diversion between the place of origin and checkpoints.
Dickson Kateshumbwa, commissioner of customs at Uganda Revenue Authority, said the DRC is a strategic market for Uganda and therefore the RECTS is important in regional trade facilitation.
"This system enables revenue authority officers to know the goods in transit, and the tracking of the cargo from Mombasa (Kenyan seaport) will be very easy and goods will be cleared at the border of Uganda and the DRC once," said Kateshumbwa.
Aime Nzoyihera, country director of an aid-for-trade organization TradeMark East Africa (TMEA), which is implementing the project, said the RECTS will be implemented in three phases: the launch of the Uganda office, the opening of the Goma office in eastern DRC, and the launch of the Kinshasa command center.
"TMEA remains committed to facilitating reduced barriers to trade in the region, particularly through enhancement of digital infrastructure which will promote increased trade in the Eastern African region," Nzoyihera added.
The RECTS is now operational in four countries in the East African region, namely Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and the DRC.
Xi highlights Party building in central Party, state institutions
China-donated frigate arrives in Sri Lanka
Water level of Liujiang River hits record high
Newly-built Beijing Daxing Int'l Airport holds 1st fire drill
Plateau pikas seen by lakeside on Qinghai-Tibet plateau
In pics: lotus flowers in bloom across China
Beautiful scenery of Nam Co Lake in China's Tibet
Scenery of Encheng National Nature Reserve in south China's Guangxi

Title: Joint press release between Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention and the World Health Organization on the situation of Ebola virus disease outbreak in the Democratic Republic Of Congo - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWeb
DR Congo
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia & Brazzaville, Republic of Congo, 19 July 2019.
On 17 July 2019, the World Health Organisation (WHO) Director General, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, declared the ongoing Ebola virus disease (EVD) outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) as a Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC). A PHEIC is defined in the IHR (2005) as, “an extraordinary event which is determined to constitute a public health risk to other States through the international spread of disease and to potentially require a coordinated international response” .
As of 18 July 2019, the Ministry of Public Health of the DRC reported 2,532 cases (2,438 confirmed and 94 probable) with 1,705 deaths and 718 cured. In declaring the DRC EVD outbreak a PHEIC, the WHO took into consideration the first confirmed case in Goma, a city of almost two million inhabitants and close to the border with Rwanda, and the gateway to the rest of DRC and the world.
Between 2009 and 2019, there have been five PHEIC declarations.  Declaration of a PHEIC is a call to action. Therefore, it is time for the African continent and indeed the world to redouble our efforts in solidarity with the DRC to end this outbreak and build a stronger health system.
In view of the PHEIC declaration, Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) and the WHO Regional Office for Africa would like to reiterate the need for all Member States to adhere to the recommendations made, emphasising the following:
No country should close its borders or place any restrictions on travel and trade, including general quarantine of travelers from the Ebola-affected countries, currently the DRC. Such measures compromise economies and impede response operations.
There should be no requirement of certificates of Ebola vaccination for any movement across borders or for issuance of visas, as there is currently no licensed vaccine against Ebola.
Exit screening is recommended at international airports in affected countries (currently only the DRC).
Entry screening at international airports or other ports of entry outside countries neighbouring the DRC is not recommended as it is not effective and involves large amounts of resources.
National authorities should work with airlines, airports and other transport and tourism industries to encourage communication and collaboration, and to ensure that the measures adopted are in line with WHO guidance for travel and transport during outbreaks.
The full list of IHR recommendations and more information are available at:
https://www.who.int/ihr/procedures/statement-emergency-committee-ebola-drc-july-2019.pdf?ua=1
https://www.who.int/ihr/procedures/statement-emergency-committee-ebola-drc-july-2019.pdf?ua=1%C2%A0
https://www.who.int/ith/who-recommendations-for-international-travel-19july2019/en/
https://www.who.int/ith/who-recommendations-for-international-travel-19july2019/en/%C2%A0
Africa CDC and WHO express their gratitude to all AU Member States for the close collaboration with and support to the EVD outbreak response. Currently, no country has implemented travel measures that interfere with international traffic to and from the DRC.
Under the leadership of the government of the DRC, Africa CDC and WHO are committed to continuing to coordinate their efforts together with other partners to increase support and control of this outbreak.
Ever since the current outbreak was declared in August 2018, Africa CDC has supported the efforts of the Government of the DRC in several ways. These include deployment of 41 multi-disciplinary public health experts, training of more than 800 local healthcare workers and community volunteers, contributions to surveillance and investigations, and provision of personal protective equipment and GeneXpert machines to health facilities.
Alongside the Ministry of Public Health of the DRC, WHO is leading the coordination of the public health response. WHO is also providing technical leadership in the areas of surveillance, vaccination and case management. WHO has mobilised and deployed over 700 international experts as part of the surge capacity needed to respond to the outbreak.
Africa CDC and WHO strongly call for member states in Africa and the international community to adhere to the requirements of the International Health Regulations (2005) including ensuring that national capacities to prevent, detect and respond to public health emergencies are strengthened.
About Africa CDCThe mission of Africa CDC is to strengthen the capacities and capabilities of Africa’s public health institutions and partnerships to detect and respond quickly and effectively to disease threats and outbreaks based on science, policy and data-driven interventions and programmes. Learn more about Africa CDC at:http://www.africacdc.org
About WHOWHO is the leading global technical health agency. Get more information on the DRC Ebola outbreak and other public health emergencies at:https://www.who.int/emergencies/crises/cod/en/
For additional information:
Mrs Wynne Musabayana, Head of Communication, African Union Commission. E-mail: MusabayanaW@africa-union.org
Mr James Ayodele, Principal Communication Officer, Africa CDC, AU Commission. Email: Ayodelej@africa-union.org
For further information:Directorate of Information and Communication | African Union Commission I E-mail: DIC@africa-union.org I Website:www.au.intI Addis Ababa | Ethiopia
Follow us on:Facebook:https://www.facebook.com/AfricanUnionCommissionTwitter: @_AfricanUnionYouTube:https://www.youtube.com/AUCommission
DR Congo+ 4 more
DR Congo
DR Congo+ 7 more
DR Congo
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Ebola outbreak reaches 2,338 cases among violence in Ituri | CIDRAP
DFID / Flickr cc
Over the weekend and through today, the Democratic Republic of the Congo's (DRC) ministry of health recorded 41 more cases of the deadly disease, including another case detected in a vaccinated health worker.
The continued spread of the outbreak in North Kivu and Ituri provinces has been marked in recent days by increased cases in Beni, Mabalako, and Masereka. These are the towns and villages where the outbreak began 11 months ago. The health worker who was infected is the outbreak's 126th and was also from Mabalako.
Late last week, the United Nations (UN) voiced concerns about ongoing massacres and ethnic violence in the DRC's Ituri province, according to UN News.
At least 94 people were killed in Djugu territory and 23 in Mahagi territory, including an as-yet undetermined number of women and children, officials said. The violence could influence the Ebola outbreak, as it may prompt more migration into neighboring countries such as Uganda, which a few weeks ago confirmed its first cases linked to the outbreak, in a family traveling from the DRC.
The UN also said the disease was moving into small, forest-based villages such as Alima, where access is "more challenging."
According to the latest updates to the World Health Organization's (WHO's) Ebola dashboard, the DRC will likely confirm 13 more cases of the viral disease today, raising outbreak totals to 2,338 cases. As of yesterday, 1,563 people had died in the outbreak, and 309 suspected cases are under investigation.
Over the weekend the DRC health ministry described a cluster of five cases from Beni, including a mother who fled Ituri province with her children. The family was transferred back to Ituri province for care.
Late last week, Oly Ilunga Kalenga, MD, the minister of health in the DRC, held a meeting in Kinshasa to review experimental Ebola vaccine candidates.
Since Aug 8, 2018 — 8 days after the outbreak began — only Merck's rVSV-ZEBOV has been deployed in a ring vaccination strategy. As of yesterday, 146,316 people had been vaccinated with Merck's product.
During the meeting, Kalenga and other officials considered experimental vaccines from Merck, Johnson & Johnson, CanSino Biologics Inc, and Rospotrebnadzor. Leaders and researchers from the pharmaceutical companies, as well as international experts from the WHO, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), and the World Bank, among others, also attended the meeting.
"Recognizing that Ebola is an emerging disease and in order to help advance science, the Ministry of Health is open to the option of starting new clinical trials with one or more of these on the sidelines of the current epidemic," the ministry said. DRC officials, however, did not opt to approve any other vaccine for use in the outbreak at this point.
See also:
Jun 28 UNstory
WHO Eboladashboard
Jun 28 DRCupdate
Jun 29 DRCupdate
Jun 30 DRCupdate
Also, sequencing confirmed N1 and identified two HA mutations, one of which could affect vaccine development.
The findings come on the cusp of the Northern Hemisphere flu and respiratory syncytial virus seasons and rising US COVID-19 cases.
A study suggesting thatnirmatrelvir/ritonavir and molnupiravir don't prevent severe COVID-19 outcomes or long COVID is also being called into question.
Before March 2024, H5N1 had not been detected in 1,337 wastewater samples analyzed by the team.
The new findings come from the ongoing RECOVER trial and build on results seen in a 2023 trial.
While sequencing shows similarity to the virus in cattle, the epi investigation might not be able to pinpoint a source.
Wastewater levels are still high, but some indicators such as hospitalizations trended downward.
The case follows two local cases reported in 2023, one in Pasadena and the other in Long Beach.
The CDC received reports of 22 more imported cases over the past week, raising the total to 74 from 5 states.
Tests are under way on samples from five contacts who reported symptoms.
Help make CIDRAP's vital work possible
CIDRAP - Center for Infectious Disease Research & PolicyResearch and Innovation Office, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN
Email us
© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights Reserved.The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer
Research and Innovation Office|Contact U of M|Privacy Policy
Newsletter subscribe