Title: 
China calls for global and regional efforts to bring peace in DRC - Xinhua | English.news.cn

UNITED NATIONS, Aug. 17 (Xinhua) -- China on Thursday called for global and regional efforts to bring peace in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
To ensure stability is an essential step in furthering the political process in the country, said Wu Haitao, China's deputy permanent representative to the United Nations.
"It's important for the international community to urge all the parties, particularly certain parties of the opposition, to put an end to violence and to continue to be committed to the political process and to support the political agreements that have already been reached," Wu told a Security Council meeting.
China welcomes the efforts of the DRC government to further the peace process and strengthen capacity in governance and security. At the same time, the DRC is confronted with various challenges in political, security and humanitarian fields, said Wu.
China appreciates the active role of regional and sub-regional players, such as the African Union, in promoting peace in the DRC and encourages them to seek a peaceful solution using their respective advantages, he said.
The UN Security Council must intensify coordination efforts to send a clear message and to promote synergies of international efforts, he said.
"The international community, in order to contribute to resolving the problems in the DRC, should fully respect the leading role of the government of the DRC. Solutions designed by the international community will be effective only when they respect the leadership of the government and the choice of the people."
The UN Security Council has taken various steps targeting illicit activities of armed groups and produced certain results, said Wu. But sanctions are not an end in themselves, they are a means and should serve the purpose of peace and stability in the DRC, he said.
China will assess the UN sanctions measures in a timely way and play an active role in helping the government and people of the DRC to achieve peace and stability in the country by themselves, said the Chinese envoy.
China has always supported the peace process in the DRC and has worked with the international community and played a constructive role in bringing peace, stability and development in the DRC, he said.
Weak governance and many active armed groups have led to widespread rape and sexual violence, massive human rights violations and extreme poverty. The UN Food and Agriculture Organization said about 7.7 million people were on the verge of starvation in the DRC, a 30 percent surge over a year ago.
Chinese president meets top U.S. general
BRICS Seminar on Governance held in SE China
Tourists visit Summer Resort to avoid heat
China's Fuyang strives in developing rural tourism industry
Qiandaohu Lake in China's Zhejiang under stricter protection
Weekly choices of Xinhua photo (Aug. 5 - Aug. 11)
Highlights of multinational drill in Georgia
People mark national Fitness Day around China

Title:  页面没有找到 


Title: China calls for global and regional efforts to bring peace in DRC
China on Thursday called for global and regional efforts to bring peace in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
To ensure stability is an essential step in furthering the political process in the country, said Wu Haitao, China's deputy permanent representative to the United Nations.
"It's important for the international community to urge all the parties, particularly certain parties of the opposition, to put an end to violence and to continue to be committed to the political process and to support the political agreements that have already been reached," Wu told a Security Council meeting.
China welcomes the efforts of the DRC government to further the peace process and strengthen capacity in governance and security. At the same time, the DRC is confronted with various challenges in political, security and humanitarian fields, said Wu.
China appreciates the active role of regional and sub-regional players, such as the African Union, in promoting peace in the DRC and encourages them to seek a peaceful solution using their respective advantages, he said.
The UN Security Council must intensify coordination efforts to send a clear message and to promote synergies of international efforts, he said.
"The international community, in order to contribute to resolving the problems in the DRC, should fully respect the leading role of the government of the DRC. Solutions designed by the international community will be effective only when they respect the leadership of the government and the choice of the people."
The UN Security Council has taken various steps targeting illicit activities of armed groups and produced certain results, said Wu. But sanctions are not an end in themselves, they are a means and should serve the purpose of peace and stability in the DRC, he said.
China will assess the UN sanctions measures in a timely way and play an active role in helping the government and people of the DRC to achieve peace and stability in the country by themselves, said the Chinese envoy.
China has always supported the peace process in the DRC and has worked with the international community and played a constructive role in bringing peace, stability and development in the DRC, he said.
Weak governance and many active armed groups have led to widespread rape and sexual violence, massive human rights violations and extreme poverty. The UN Food and Agriculture Organization said about 7.7 million people were on the verge of starvation in the DRC, a 30 percent surge over a year ago.

China calls for stabilization of situation in Nigeria and DRC
China calls for more efforts to promote political process, peace, stability in DRC
UN mission in DRC creates Ebola taskforce in response to outbreak

Title: Fresher Livelihood Assistant NGO Jobs - Danish Refugee Council (DRC)

Job Title:   Finance Assistant (UN Jobs) Organisation: United Nations Children’s Fund…
Job Title:  Office Secretary – Technical     Organisation: Civil Aviation Safety…
Job Title:  Procurement Officer   Organisation: Civil Aviation Safety and Security…
Job Title:  Financial Management Specialist Organisation: Ministry of Education and…
Job Title:   MEAL Officer Organisation: TPO Uganda Duty Station: Kampala, Uganda…
Job Title:   Finance and Administration Officer (Fresher NGO Jobs) Organisation: TPO…

For employers, please send your adverts and inquiries to ugandanjobline@gmail.com
Popular JobsSales and Marketing Manager Jobs – Tenza Flour Mills Ltd4 min readJob Title:   Sales and Marketing Manager Organisation: Tenza Flour Mills LtdRead More2 Fresher Cafeteria Attendant Jobs – Pharmaceutical Company2 min readJob Title:   Cafeteria Attendant (2 Fresher Jobs) Organisation: Pharmaceutical Company DutyRead MoreDebt Recovery Officer Jobs – UGAFODE Microfinance Limited (MDI)3 min readJob Title:  Debt Recovery Officer  Organisation: UGAFODE Microfinance Limited (MDI)Read MoreMilling Operator Jobs – Tenza Flour Mills Ltd.2 min readJob Title:  Milling Operator Company Name: Tenza Flour Mills Ltd.Read MoreElectric Technician Jobs – Tenza Flour Mills Ltd.2 min readJob Title:  Electric Technician Company Name: Tenza Flour Mills Ltd.Read More
Job Title:   Sales and Marketing Manager Organisation: Tenza Flour Mills LtdRead More
Job Title:   Cafeteria Attendant (2 Fresher Jobs) Organisation: Pharmaceutical Company DutyRead More
Job Title:  Debt Recovery Officer  Organisation: UGAFODE Microfinance Limited (MDI)Read More
Job Title:  Milling Operator Company Name: Tenza Flour Mills Ltd.Read More
Job Title:  Electric Technician Company Name: Tenza Flour Mills Ltd.Read More




Title: Preserving precious peat in the Congo Basin - CIFOR-ICRAF Forests News
The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) has long been known for the biodiversity and carbon storage capacity of its vast forests. Now, there is a need to explore the potential of newly-discovered peatland to help further keep a lid on its carbon emissions, according to Denis Jean Sonwa, a senior scientist at theCenter for International Forestry Research (CIFOR).
Scientists recently discovered what they call‘the world’s largest tropical peatland’in a remote part of the Congo Basin. The 145,000 square-kilometer area, larger than the size of England, is believed to hold the equivalent of three years’ worth of global emissions. Known as the ‘Cuvette Centrale’, the area straddles the DRC’s border with the Republic of Congo.
The DRC is well-informed to bring peatlands into itsReducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation in Developing Countries (REDD)process, says Sonwa, who is based in CIFOR’s office in Yaoundé, Cameroon.
“The countries of Central Africa are known for their biodiversity,” he says. “It is thus extremely important that the DRC, with support from international donors and partners, continue protecting its peatland areas.”
Sonwa spoke toForests Newsabout how the DRC can move forward on peatland preservation for carbon storage purposes.
What role can peatlands play in carbon storage in the DRC?
Peatlands matter in the DRC. It constitutes a fragile ecological environment. With regards to the carbon storage process, the DRC is adopting the REDD process, and we know that peatlands store vast amounts of peat carbon in the soil.
For the REDD process, the DRC needs to know what carbon pools and stocks it holds. In the past, we knew the carbon stocks in the forestland much better. But recent discoveries mention large quantities of peat in the DRC and even in neighboring Congo. This ‘new’ peat needs to be added to the existing forest carbon stocks identified earlier because it constitutes important supplemental information on carbon stocks, which are related to certain aspects of climate change.
The recent discovery of large quantities of peat has now ranked the DRC and Congo among the world’s leading tropical peatland countries, just behind Indonesia, putting them and the Congo Basin very high on the roster of global statistics on peatland and carbon pools.
How important is the DRC’s Central Basin peatland?
The DRC has the biggest forest in Central Africa and thus has great biodiversity. The peatland discovered in the Central Basin is important for its significant biodiversity.
Here, carbon storage is of ecological importance and biodiversity is important to the environment. The area where peat was discovered is part of an identified landscape for biodiversity conservation. It straddles the DRC and the Republic of Congo.
The recent discovery of large quantities of peat has now ranked the DRC and Congo among the world’s leading tropical peatland countries, just behind Indonesia, putting them and the Congo Basin very high on the roster of global statistics on peatland and carbon pools.
What are some challenges regarding the preservation of this peatland?
The discovery of this peatland offers a great opportunity for participation in the REDD process, but there are major problems such as preventing drainage to prepare lands for other activities- mainly agriculture, as was done in some parts of the world where drained lands were used essentially as farmland.
For agricultural expansion globally, the Congo Basin countries are considered to be the world’s next frontier. People hope to open lands for agriculture because agriculture flourishes in the peatlands. Hence the carbon pool areas, including peatlands, must be very well-protected.
The first challenge is to protect these lands. The second challenge concerns commitment to the REDD process. Carbon pools, after being identified, supposedly can be measured and verified. But Central African peatlands have long been neglected because the technology and facilities needed to identify these areas have not always been available.
Investments for identifying peat areas and carbon stocks in this distinctive environment have been slow. For the REDD process, the country must be able to monitor the quantity of peat and greenhouse gas emissions.
Will the country have the capacity to measure the peat and evaluate the emissions found in this environment? Time will tell.
How is climate change affecting the peatlands of Central Africa?
Climate change is a very important ecological matter. In the peatlands, the water level affects the level of emissions, and that level can be impacted by climate change. Analyses of climate change show that Central Africa is drying out. A decline in rainfall levels could seriously affect the level of peat carbon storage.
How might the citizens of the DRC benefit from peatland preservation?
The DRC communities can benefit from peatlands on the whole and use them for a bit of small-scale farming. More importantly, if the country derives financial gain from carbon, the people could benefit directly from the fact that the country has sustainably managed peatland.
How do you see the future of peatland preservation in the DRC and the rest of Central Africa?
We have learned that these peatlands are now being protected and that they play a twofold role: carbon sequestration and biodiversity conservation.
The countries of Central Africa are known for their biodiversity. It is extremely important that the DRC, with support from international donors and partners, continue protecting the peatland areas.
Central Africa is learning lessons from the examples of other countries that poorly managed peatlands. The DRC is fortunate to be discovering peatlands that are already protected, and therefore it can avoid the mistakes made by other tropical countries that hastened to allocate these lands to a type of agriculture that was not sustainable.
CIFOR-ICRAFharnesses the power of trees, forests and agroforestry landscapes to address the most pressing global challenges of our time – biodiversity loss, climate change, food security, livelihoods and inequity.

Title: Dutch Reformed Church looks to Africa, after troubled past | World Council of Churches
The Dutch Reformed Church (DRC) in South Africa is currently striving to revive and enhance its missional identity with its core aspect being a church for Africa, said DRC general secretary Dr Gustav Claassen.
Dr Gustav Claassen, general secretary of DRC and Rev. Dr Susan Durber, Moderator of the WCC’s Faith and Order Commission in Pretoria, South Africa. Photo: Peter Kenny/WCC
Share this article
The Dutch Reformed Church (DRC) in South Africa is currently striving to revive and enhance its missional identity with its core aspect being a church for Africa, said DRC general secretary Dr Gustav Claassen.
He spoke at a meeting of the World Council of Churches (WCC) Commission on Faith and Order, held 15-22 June near Pretoria in South Africa and hosted by the DRC (in Afrikaans Nederduitse Gereformeerde Kerk, or NGK).
“As the church also celebrates 500 years since the Reformation, the DRC also deliberately works towards the rediscovery and enhancement of its Reformed identity in the context ofmodern-day southern Africa,” said Claassen.
“It would like to be a church in Africa and for Africa, embracing diversity in the unity of the body of Christ,” he said.
“After more than 350 years of existence, the DRC still confesses to be a Reformed church that adheres to the authority of scripture and that is missional in character in its Southern African context.”
The meeting of the commission this year held a special significance. The DRC left the WCC in 1961 due to criticism for its role in supporting South Africa’s apartheid policy, rejoined the WCC in 2016 and, this year, is hosting the Faith and Order meeting.
The commission is considered one of the most ecumenical bodies of the WCC with official representatives of churches belonging to the main historical streams of Christianity, including the Roman Catholic Church. It is a multilateral, global forum of ecumenical theology.
Striving for inclusion
During the apartheid era, the DRC had been criticised as it supported the racist policies of the governing National Party, driving out pastors who questioned that role such as Beyers Naudé who succeeded Archbishop Desmond Tutu as secretary general of the South African Council of Churches in 1985.
Another pastor who turned his back on the white DRC was Nico Smith who chose to serve a congregation and live in Mamelodi, a black suburb in Pretoria during troubled times in 1985.
Claassen explained, however, “From the late 1980s and early 1990s, and especially after the DRC confessed that its theological justification of and practical collaboration with the apartheid system was a sin, the drive to reunite at least the domestic churches has increased.
“However, the DRC continues to express its sincere eagerness to work towards greater visible unity, not only with the domestic sister churches, but also within the broader family,” he said.
In traditional white congregations, the use of Afrikaans as the language used in the church might make it less appealing for the black community who speak other languages to join. Yet many members of mixed-race communities have no difficulty slotting in.
“The DRC also continues to strive to establish close partnerships and develop warm relationships as a step on the way of realising the ideal of unity,” Claassen said.
“Apart from the many facets of DRC activities inside congregations, the DRC also tries to serve communities more broadly through community development programmes.”
The DRC general secretary explained how the DRC is the oldest church in the family of Reformed churches and, in the past, it was referred to as the “mother church”.
First Dutch in the Cape
The first Dutch settlers who arrived at the Cape in 1652 also brought a Reformed church with them, hence the name.
“Another distinct influence on the church was effected by the number of Scottish ministers arriving at the Cape from 1818. Especially the descendants of Rev. Andrew Murray who arrived in 1820, had a marked effect on the church,” noted Claassen.
He spoke of the broader DRC family including Dutch Reformed Church in Africa (DRCA), the Uniting Reformed Church in Southern Africa (URCSA) and the Reformed Church in Africa (RCA).
It also includes different churches in, for example, Botswana, Malawi, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Mozambique, Kenya, Nigeria, Namibia, Swaziland and Lesotho.
“It is, however, not possible, neither financially nor practically, that all the missionary activities and the facilities discussed above could be maintained by the ‘mother church’,” Claassen said.
After the British arrived in South Africa during the Great Trek that started in 1836, a large part of the white population moved into the interior of Southern Africa to settle in the regions that later became the Orange Free State, Natal and the Transvaal.
Many new congregations were established and the need for qualified ministers increased. This led to the establishment of the first theological seminary in 1859 in Stellenbosch. In 1917 a second training institution for ministers, the Faculty of Theology at the University of Pretoria, was established.
The third institution, the Faculty of Theology at the University of the Orange Free State (now the University of the Free State), was established in 1978.
During the apartheid era those universities for the most part only admitted white students, but they are now fully open institutions.
A colloquium took place on 16 June at the Faculty of Theology of the University of Pretoria, celebrating its 100th anniversary, and it has transformed from the apartheid days to now being an open and diverse institution with more than 60 percent black students, many from other African countries.  The faculty is also engaged in interfaith work.
The WCC holds first meeting with Dutch Reformed Church in South Africa for 57 years (WCC news release 20 June 2017)
More about the Faith and Order Commission
WCC member churches in South Africa
Please fill in this form if you would like to receive news and updates from the WCC by email.
Ecumenical Centre1 Route des Morillons1218 Le Grand-Saconnex - Switzerland

Title: Technical Difficulties

We’re sorry, this site is currently experiencing technical difficulties.Please try again in a few moments.Exception: request blocked

Title: Human Rights and Democracy Report 2016 - Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) | Refworld
Search
Search
Search
The human rights situation in the DRC deteriorated further during 2016, particularly as a result of activity by armed groups in eastern DRC, who remain responsible for the majority of abuses. However, there has been a significant increase (400%) of abuses related to elections. There was continued shrinkage of democratic space, particularly in relation to the electoral process as President Kabila's constitutional mandate drew to a close in December. The United Nations Joint Human Rights Office (JHRO) documented a total of 1,102 human rights violations, a huge increase since last year. The majority of incidents, for which the state was reportedly responsible, related to arbitrary arrests and detentions; spurious charges against opposition figures; attacks on freedom of speech; and extrajudicial killings by state agents. State human rights violations continued, including the disproportionate use of force by the security services of the DRC against supporters of the political opposition. Additionally, there have been accusations of grave and widespread human rights violations by security forces in the Kasai region in response to a local uprising. In August, the DRC's Family Code was revised, which was a positive outcome for gender, LGB&T and minority rights. The DRC currently ranks in the top ten countries for numbers of people in modern slavery, with more than 80,000 people affected.
The UK's human rights work focused on protecting political space and preventing sexual and gender-based violence. The FCO funded projects to help victims of sexual violence in conflict to obtain justice and worked with the DRC Government to encourage use of the International Protocol on the Documentation and Investigation of Sexual Violence in Conflict by legal and medical practitioners. The UK continued to contribute towards long term stability in eastern DRC, through support to the MONUSCO (UN Organisation Stabilisation Mission in the DRC); the work of the Department for International Development (DFID); and projects and programmes supported by the UK's Conflict, Stability and Security Fund (CSSF). We remain deeply concerned about the risk of further massacres in and around the city of Beni, and are supporting MONUSCO in its work to prevent future incidences and reduce human rights violations and abuses in the east of the country. Our office in Goma has facilitated and driven the sharing of information about the massacres amongst those investigating a number of massacres in Beni territory.
In 2017, the UK will continue to focus on preventing human rights violations and abuses during the electoral period. We will monitor arrests, detentions and disappearances of opposition and civil society figures, and will raise any concerns with the DRC Government. We will continue to encourage the DRC Government to take concrete steps to improve respect for human rights, particularly by taking action against armed groups in the east. We will look for ways to include work against modern slavery and people trafficking in our existing and forthcoming programme activity. We will also continue our work on the Preventing Sexual Violence in Conflict Initiative, funding a number of grassroots projects and working closely with the DRC President's Personal Representative on the Fight Against Sexual Violence and Child Recruitment, as well as other relevant ministries.
This is not a UNHCR publication. UNHCR is not responsible for, nor does it necessarily endorse, its content. Any views expressed are solely those of the author or publisher and do not necessarily reflect those of UNHCR, the United Nations or its Member States.

Title: 
	 APO Group - Africa Newsroom  / Press release | Ambassador Haley Meets with Permanent Representative of the Democratic Republic of the Congo Ignace Gata Mavita wa Lufuta

The contents of this website are copyright-free and can be republished freely without authorisation.
Celebrating this Year’s 25 Under 40 Energy Women Rising Stars
              -Source: African Energy Chamber
Centurion Law Group (CLG) Appoints Daoudou Mohammad as Director of Tax & Legal at Pointe-Noire Office
              -Source: CLG
Tahaluf Launches CPHI Middle East As Region’s Premier Pharma Event
              -Source: CPHI Middle East
The Coca-Cola System in Nigeria Provides Economic Boost Through Major Investment
              -Source: Coca-Cola
3 Benefits of Attending the Invest in African Energy Forum in Paris
              -Source: Energy Capital & Power
Ambassador Haley noted the United States’ concerns about the reports of child soldiers and human rights violations coming out of the DRC, especially from the Kasai region
Ambassador Nikki Haley met with Ambassador Ignace Gata Mavita wa Lufuta, Permanent Representative of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to the United Nations. Ambassador Haley noted the United States’ concerns about the reports of child soldiers and human rights violations coming out of the DRC, especially from the Kasai region. Ambassador Haley and Ambassador Gata Mavita wa Lufuta discussed that it was important to end the cycle of violence and hold perpetrators of these crimes to account.

They also discussed the status of the DRC’s national elections, which remain pending, and Ambassador Haley underscored the need for the DRC to set a date for elections as soon as possible. She expressed her commitment to support the DRC in their efforts to address the significant humanitarian issues the country faces. Ambassador Haley and Ambassador Gata Mavita wa Lufuta expressed their shared concerns for the safety and welfare of the Congolese people and emphasized the importance of improving human rights in the DRC.
Distributed by APO Group on behalf of U.S. Mission to the United Nations.
Get freeAfrica-related contentOn your website, on your mobile,to your e-mail inbox...
Mohammad holds over 15 years of experience in business and tax law, developing a solid competence in handling complex legal issues and providing effective client support
The African Energy Chamber proudly announces the 25 Under 40 women who are playing an instrumental part in strengthening Africa’s energy industry
The high levels of optimism are being attributed to advancements in technology (71%), the launch of new products and services to drive growth (55%) and changing consumer and investor behaviours (38%)
Set to take place at the Riyadh Front Exhibition & Convention Center from December 10-12, 2024, this landmark event has garnered the support of the Saudi Ministry of Health and is held in partnership with the Events Investment Fund
The US $1 billion investment will support job creation across the value chain
Statement by the Governments of Norway, the United Kingdom and the United States on the announcement by South Sudan’s leaders of an extension of the country's transitional period
This seeks to ensure the improvement of the performance of the sports system; establish principles of accountability and transparency; and remove any obstacles encountering athletes
The African Energy Chamber proudly announces the 25 Under 40 women who are playing an instrumental part in strengthening Africa’s energy industry
Launched in June, the U.S.-Tanzania Tech Challenge sought innovative solutions to promote information integrity, fostering greater participation and involvement in civic activities
The staff-level agreement is subject to approval by the IMF’s Management and Executive Board

Title: SADC sending special envoy to DRC as Zuma assumes chairmanship | News24
Sunday, 22 September
21 Aug 2017
Pretoria – The
Southern African Development Community will be sending a former head of state
to the Democratic Republic of Congo as a special envoy amidst increasing
tensions in that country due to overdue elections.
There were still
consultations "aimed at finalising this matter".
President Jacob
Zuma, who assumed the SADC chairpersonship at this weekend’s summit, said in
his closing address on Sunday that the summit has also urged the DRC's
Independent National Electoral Commission to publicise the revised electoral
calendar.
These steps came
amidst protests by DRC citizens living in South Africa outside the Department
of International Relations headquarters where the summit was held.
They demanded
that the DRC withdraw from SADC because SADC wasn’t doing anything to help the
situation in the country.
They also
objected to President Joseph Kabila attending the summit, even though he wasn’t
present.
Logistic support
DRC Prime
Minister Bruno Tshibila, who attended on Kabila’s behalf, told journalists
after the summit the country was "very happy that the SADC heads of state
condemned the undue interferences by the countries outside the DRC, especially
in view of the sanctions they have imposed on some of the individuals in the
DRC in violation of the sovereignty of the DRC".
He said the DRC
would receive "logistical support" from SADC in organising the elections, but
the calendar would be decided by the electoral body after government did its
evaluations.
So far 39 million
voters had been registered, with the aim being 41 million. DRC ambassador Bene
M’Poko also said registration had started in the Kasai provinces, which has
recently seen conflict.
The security
situation in the DRC has become increasingly fraught after a December deadline for
elections was missed and a peace agreement brokered by the Catholic Church in
December fell apart.
The opposition
demanded that elections be held before the end of this year, but Zuma said the
SADC summit “noted that this might not be possible to hold elections in
December 2017, due to a number of challenges currently receiving attention”.
Clear time-bound roadmap
The European
Union and the United States have been applying targeted sanctions at top
officials in the country in order to pressure the DRC towards elections.
According to the
summit communique, read by executive secretary Stergomena Tax, the summit urged
that the December peace agreement be implemented and be supported by the
international community and all stakeholders in the country.
Zuma also said
the summit was happy that Lesotho was enjoying more stability.
The summit has
urged Lesotho to submit "a clear time-bound roadmap on the implementation of
all SADC decisions and Commission of Inquiry by November 2017", he said.
The summit also
bade farewell to Angolan President José Eduardo dos Santos, who is set to step
down later following elections this month after almost three decades in power,
and Botswana president Ian Khama, who is set to finish his term next year
before the next summit in Namibia.
Free to listen for subscribers
News24's September audiobook that’s free to listen to for subscribers is The Super Cadres: ANC Misrule in the Age of Deployment by Pieter du Toit.
Indulge in the finer things
News24's new magazine is curated for those who understand luxury and want to celebrate the richness of life.
Can you ace them all?
Today’s crossword, wordflower, sudoku and weekly news quiz
Friday Briefing - weekly
Insight and analysis on the big political story of the week, plus a roundup of top columns and reader favourites.
04 Sep
21 Aug
16 Aug
07 Aug
01 Aug
19 Jul

Use your voice to deepen the dialogue and engage with stories of courage, endurance, community, triumph, and the pursuit of truth in SA.
17 Sep
17 Sep
13 Sep
01 Sep
Contact the public editor with feedback for our journalists, complaints, queries or suggestions about articles on News24.
04 Sep
12 Sep
09 Sep
11 Sep