Title: Delhi shouldn't meddle in Kabul power games | Delhi shouldn't meddle in Kabul power games
Ideological preferences, and even blinkers, are legitimate. But political compulsions are equally important. In 1996, when the Taliban had taken control of over 90 per cent of Afghanistan, India had supported the Northern Alliance and it had even set up a military field hospital in Mazar-e-Sharif. At that time, the Russians too were on the anti-Taliban side. At the time of the Christmas 1999 hijacking of an Indian Airlines plane by terrorists seeking the release of Masood Azhar, the aircraft was parked at Kabul airport, which was controlled by the Taliban.
The Taliban did not have anything to do with the hijacking itself, but tried to show that they were playing neutral hosts. However, they were perhaps silently inimical towards India because of their linkage with Pakistan. But the Taliban did not do or say anything hostile towards India as such. When the Taliban blasted the Bamiyan Buddhas, there was condemnation of it in the Indian Parliament. Between 1996 and 2001, when the Taliban were in power, the Americans kept unofficial contacts with them, and there were also some commercial deals on the anvil.
After the American invasion in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks on the United States by Osama bin Laden’s Al Qaeda, the melting away of the Taliban, and the weak constitutional process that began, India became a supporter of these developments. While India was kept out the Bonn conference held in December 2001 at the insistence of Pakistan, New Delhi soon undertook economic reconstruction work in parts of Afghanistan. And India had also officially expressed the view that there cannot be a “good Taliban and bad Taliban”, and that the fanatical regime was unacceptable. It was an unexceptionable position. But it has so transpired that the elected governments of Afghanistan, both under Hamid Karzai and Abdul Ghani, were reaching out to the Taliban. The Americans too soon recognised that political stability in Afghanistan hinges on the Taliban joining the political system. The Taliban have adopted the apparently rigid position that there should be withdrawal of all foreign troops from Afghanistan before there could be any negotiations. It is possible that once all the foreign troops are out, the Taliban are likely to outflank the democratically-elected government.
India’s apprehensions of the return of a fanatical regime still hold good. If the Taliban return to power, which is a hypothesis, they may or may not deal with India and Iran on friendly terms because of their rigid Sunni ideology. Meanwhile, the Russians who had moved out of Afghanistan in 1989, have adopted the position that the Taliban may have to be armed to fight against the emergence of the Islamic State (ISIS), or Daesh, in the country. Whatever the cunning that may lie behind the Russian move, it makes strategic sense for Russia to oppose Daesh in Syria and in Afghanistan. But the right move would have been to arm the democratically-elected Kabul government rather than the Taliban. But it would be much better to prevent Taliban and Daesh joining hands.
Given the complications of the situation, India perhaps should not be sticking to simplistic positions, which are fine as far as they go. What New Delhi may have to consider is to maintain the position that India is in principle not opposed to the Taliban if the Islamist group adheres to basic democratic norms. The convoluted official Indian position, as stated by the external affairs ministry spokesman, of supporting an Afghan-directed, Afghan-controlled talks for the good of the people of Afghanistan makes eminent sense, but it will require a lot of fine-tuning on the ground.
New Delhi might have to put away the earlier perception that the Taliban in Afghanistan is the creation of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), which is indeed a fact, and think of ways of dealing with the Taliban, even if it means that the channel of communication to the Taliban is to be facilitated by Islamabad and the ISI. Even if India and Pakistan do not see eye to eye on bilateral issues, they may have to chart a common strategy towards Afghanistan. Of course, India and Pakistan would continue to look to ways to gain an upper hand in Afghanistan, but it would be much better if India remains in touch with the Taliban. In the long run, India has to offer more to Afghanistan by way of economic aid than Pakistan can ever hope to do. Pakistan can hope to scuttle India’s strong position in Afghanistan — given that a majority of Afghans love India and hate Pakistan — only by making space for Afghanistan in the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). India will have to learn to play a cleverer game.
Therefore, the Indian move to depute unofficial representatives to the Moscow-convened Afghanistan conference on November 9 was a good one. This should be followed by a subtler strategy of reckoning with the Taliban while supporting democracy in Afghanistan. The present Kabul government is seen as an American-backed puppet regime, which could fall if the foreign troops get out of the country. India should be supporting the efforts of President Abdul Ghani in reaching out to the Taliban.
The Great Game of the Big Powers of the 19th century centred around Afghanistan continues into the 21st century. India as an emergent power has a stake in Afghanistan, and it should learn lessons from the Russian and American involvement from 1978 to 2018 in that country. The biggest lesson for India is that it should not identify itself with any regime in Kabul, or with any other regime in the South Asian neighbourhood for that matter. Learning to deal with the Taliban is the first step.
Afghanistan is indeed a minefield in more senses than one, and it tests India’s diplomatic finesse to the hilt. This needs greater internal deliberation, which has been sadly lacking for the past two decades. India should not be seen as a sulking spectator at the Afghanistan conferences at a time when the Americans are exploring an exit strategy from the region.
The author is a Delhi-based commentator and analyst.

Title: Taliban ready to talk with Kabul if US troops exit
MOSCOW: Taliban are ready to talk with Afghanistan’s government only after agreeing with the United States on a schedule for the withdrawal of foreign troops from the country, Russian Presidential Envoy for Afghanistan Zamir Kabulov said Monday."They said that they would be ready to talk with the Afghan government only after reaching an agreement with the Americans on the schedule for withdrawing all foreign troops from Afghanistan.As a confidence-building measure, the Taliban have preliminarily demanded the release of all political prisoners and the cancellation of anti-Taliban sanctions imposed on them back in 1997," Kabulov said at a press conference.The Taliban are ready to take part in the next meeting on Afghanistan in Moscow, Kabulov noted as quoted by Russia’s Sputnik news agency. "Yes. In principle, the Taliban are ready. They really liked it, they are ready to take part," Kabulov said at a press conference when asked about the prospects for the Taliban’s participation in a new meeting of the Moscow format.The November 9 meeting of the Moscow format on Afghanistan may be considered a breakthrough, because for the first time the Taliban attended it, which is the first step toward further full-format peace talks, according to Russian Foreign Ministry Second Asian Department Director Zamir Kabulov, who also serves as an envoy for Afghanistan. "The United States had enough time, 17 years, to do a lot of what it originally intended. But? If you remember, in 2001 the presence of the Taliban in Afghanistan was zero, today the Taliban control more than 60 per cent of the country? This is the presence of America and Nato in Afghanistan. What kind of presence is this, which does not solve the problem, but contributes to its growth? We do not need such leadership," Kabulov stated. He contended that the national security interests of Russia and its allies are at stake.
"They said that they would be ready to talk with the Afghan government only after reaching an agreement with the Americans on the schedule for withdrawing all foreign troops from Afghanistan.As a confidence-building measure, the Taliban have preliminarily demanded the release of all political prisoners and the cancellation of anti-Taliban sanctions imposed on them back in 1997," Kabulov said at a press conference.The Taliban are ready to take part in the next meeting on Afghanistan in Moscow, Kabulov noted as quoted by Russia’s Sputnik news agency. "Yes. In principle, the Taliban are ready. They really liked it, they are ready to take part," Kabulov said at a press conference when asked about the prospects for the Taliban’s participation in a new meeting of the Moscow format.The November 9 meeting of the Moscow format on Afghanistan may be considered a breakthrough, because for the first time the Taliban attended it, which is the first step toward further full-format peace talks, according to Russian Foreign Ministry Second Asian Department Director Zamir Kabulov, who also serves as an envoy for Afghanistan. "The United States had enough time, 17 years, to do a lot of what it originally intended. But? If you remember, in 2001 the presence of the Taliban in Afghanistan was zero, today the Taliban control more than 60 per cent of the country? This is the presence of America and Nato in Afghanistan. What kind of presence is this, which does not solve the problem, but contributes to its growth? We do not need such leadership," Kabulov stated. He contended that the national security interests of Russia and its allies are at stake.
As a confidence-building measure, the Taliban have preliminarily demanded the release of all political prisoners and the cancellation of anti-Taliban sanctions imposed on them back in 1997," Kabulov said at a press conference.The Taliban are ready to take part in the next meeting on Afghanistan in Moscow, Kabulov noted as quoted by Russia’s Sputnik news agency. "Yes. In principle, the Taliban are ready. They really liked it, they are ready to take part," Kabulov said at a press conference when asked about the prospects for the Taliban’s participation in a new meeting of the Moscow format.The November 9 meeting of the Moscow format on Afghanistan may be considered a breakthrough, because for the first time the Taliban attended it, which is the first step toward further full-format peace talks, according to Russian Foreign Ministry Second Asian Department Director Zamir Kabulov, who also serves as an envoy for Afghanistan. "The United States had enough time, 17 years, to do a lot of what it originally intended. But? If you remember, in 2001 the presence of the Taliban in Afghanistan was zero, today the Taliban control more than 60 per cent of the country? This is the presence of America and Nato in Afghanistan. What kind of presence is this, which does not solve the problem, but contributes to its growth? We do not need such leadership," Kabulov stated. He contended that the national security interests of Russia and its allies are at stake.
The Taliban are ready to take part in the next meeting on Afghanistan in Moscow, Kabulov noted as quoted by Russia’s Sputnik news agency. "Yes. In principle, the Taliban are ready. They really liked it, they are ready to take part," Kabulov said at a press conference when asked about the prospects for the Taliban’s participation in a new meeting of the Moscow format.The November 9 meeting of the Moscow format on Afghanistan may be considered a breakthrough, because for the first time the Taliban attended it, which is the first step toward further full-format peace talks, according to Russian Foreign Ministry Second Asian Department Director Zamir Kabulov, who also serves as an envoy for Afghanistan. "The United States had enough time, 17 years, to do a lot of what it originally intended. But? If you remember, in 2001 the presence of the Taliban in Afghanistan was zero, today the Taliban control more than 60 per cent of the country? This is the presence of America and Nato in Afghanistan. What kind of presence is this, which does not solve the problem, but contributes to its growth? We do not need such leadership," Kabulov stated. He contended that the national security interests of Russia and its allies are at stake.
The November 9 meeting of the Moscow format on Afghanistan may be considered a breakthrough, because for the first time the Taliban attended it, which is the first step toward further full-format peace talks, according to Russian Foreign Ministry Second Asian Department Director Zamir Kabulov, who also serves as an envoy for Afghanistan. "The United States had enough time, 17 years, to do a lot of what it originally intended. But? If you remember, in 2001 the presence of the Taliban in Afghanistan was zero, today the Taliban control more than 60 per cent of the country? This is the presence of America and Nato in Afghanistan. What kind of presence is this, which does not solve the problem, but contributes to its growth? We do not need such leadership," Kabulov stated. He contended that the national security interests of Russia and its allies are at stake.
Some prisoners struggled to return to civilian life after their release
Iran shares a more than 900-kilometre border with Afghanistan
Economic Coordination Committee of Pakistan had already approved the export, facilitating the deal
Management of the institution has laid off 8 officers and employees to reduce administrative expenses
Both sides, it was learnt, were using heavy and automatic weapons during the skirmishes
Establishment Division has issued notification of the extension of suspension
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: Envoy: Russia plays Afghanistan broker due to US 'failure' | Daily Mail Online
ByAssociated Press
Published:05:08 EDT, 12 November 2018|Updated:06:19 EDT, 12 November 2018


MOSCOW (AP) - A senior Russian diplomat said Monday that Moscow is trying to be an Afghan peace broker because it considers the U.S. has failed in Afghanistan.
Russia's presidential envoy for Afghanistan, Zamir Kabulov, said a Moscow conference on Afghanistan Friday that brought together representatives of the Afghan authorities and the Taliban marked an attempt to "take a modest first step toward full-fledged peace talks."
Kabulov said Monday that Russia's efforts to help an Afghan peace settlement have been driven not by a desire to undercut the U.S. efforts, but by legitimate security concerns. He emphasized that the continuing fighting in Afghanistan threatens the interests of Russia and its allies in Central Asia.
"Afghanistan is close to our underbelly so national interests of Russia and its allies are at stake," Kobulov said at a briefing. "We can't just sit back and watch impassively what's going on, and we have let the U.S. know that it doesn't appear to be successful in settlement efforts."
Kabulov charged that "the presence of the U.S. and NATO hasn't only failed to solve the problem but exacerbated it," noting that the Taliban has steadily expanded its foothold.
"The West has lost the war in Afghanistan, and it's reluctant to acknowledge that obvious fact," Kabulov said. "If they continue to rely on force, it would only lead to thousands more victims and further ravage the country."
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, second left, speaks as he attends a conference on Afghanistan bringing together representatives of the Afghan authorities and the Taliban in Moscow, Russia, Friday, Nov. 9, 2018. The conference marks Moscow's attempt to get the Afghan authorities and the Taliban together at a table. The U.S. Embassy in Moscow has sent a diplomat to observe the discussions. (AP Photo/Pavel Golovkin)
He noted that regional powers, including Russia, China, Pakistan and Iran have a strong interest in ending the conflict and should play a more active role.
The U.S. Embassy sent a diplomat to observe Friday's conference in Moscow that was attended by several members of Afghanistan's government-appointed Peace Council and the Taliban. Envoys from China, India, Pakistan and the ex-Soviet nations of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan also attended the meeting.
Taliban officials and Peace Council members have met at past forums elsewhere, and while no formal talks were ever held they have had some face-to face discussions.
The Taliban has refused direct talks with the Afghan government, which it sees as a U.S. puppet, saying it will only negotiate the end of the 17-year war directly with Washington. The group reaffirmed that position in Moscow, saying it would talk directly to the U.S. to demand its pullout from the country.
Kabulov said that he may meet with the U.S. Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation, Zalmay Khalilzad, later this fall.
Participants of the conference on Afghanistan including representatives of the Afghan authorities and the Taliban read papers in Moscow, Russia, Friday, Nov. 9, 2018. The conference marks Moscow's attempt to get the Afghan authorities and the Taliban together at a table. The U.S. Embassy in Moscow has sent a diplomat to observe the discussions. (AP Photo/Pavel Golovkin)
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, center, arrives to attend a conference on Afghanistan bringing together representatives of the Afghan authorities and the Taliban in Moscow, Russia, Friday, Nov. 9, 2018. The conference marks Moscow's attempt to get the Afghan authorities and the Taliban together at a table. The U.S. Embassy in Moscow has sent a diplomat to observe the discussions. (AP Photo/Pavel Golovkin)
Participants attend the conference on Afghanistan bringing together representatives of the Afghan authorities and the Taliban in Moscow, Russia, Friday, Nov. 9, 2018. The conference marks Moscow's attempt to get the Afghan authorities and the Taliban together at a table. The U.S. Embassy in Moscow has sent a diplomat to observe the discussions. (AP Photo/Pavel Golovkin)
Participants of the conference on Afghanistan including representatives of the Afghan authorities and the Taliban speak to journalists in Moscow, Russia, Friday, Nov. 9, 2018. The conference marks Moscow's attempt to get the Afghan authorities and the Taliban together at a table. The U.S. Embassy in Moscow has sent a diplomat to observe the discussions. (AP Photo/Pavel Golovkin)
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group

Title: U.S. Peace Envoy Seeks to Reassure Kabul It Won't Be Blocked From Talks - Business Insider
By Rupam  Jain
KABUL (Reuters) - The U.S. special envoy for Afghanistan is trying to reassure the U.S.-backed government in Kabul that it will not be shut out of a peace process with the Taliban, after it complained of being side-lined from talks, officials said on Friday.
The U.S. envoy, Zalmay Khalilzad, wants representatives of Afghan society to join talks aimed at ending the 17-year war between the Western-backed government and the Islamist Taliban, who were ousted from power by U.S.-led forces in 2001.
Khalilzad, an Afghan-born U.S. diplomat, met Taliban leaders in Qatar last month to try to push talks forward but the Taliban have long rejected direct talks with the elected government, led by President Ashraf Ghani.
"Ghani and many Afghan politicians felt that the U.S. was shutting them out of the peace talks," said a close aide to Ghani.
"Khalilzad cleared the differences by meeting top Afghan politicians, civil society members and women to prove that U.S. will not isolate Afghans during next round of peace talks," he said.
Ghani's office declined to comment.
The Taliban are fighting to expel foreign forces and defeat the Western-backed government.
The United States has for years resisted getting involved in direct talks with the militants, saying the process must be "Afghan-owned and Afghan-led".
The Taliban last month presented demands to Khalilzad that included a timeline for the withdrawal of U.S. troops and the release of senior Taliban from jails in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
In October, Pakistan released one of the co-founders of the Taliban and another high-ranking commander.
No date has been announced for another round of talks but the Taliban have stepped up their attacks on government forces, inflicting hundreds of casualties over recent weeks in assaults in different parts of the country.
A senior government official in Kabul said Khalilzad wanted Afghan society represented in talks.
"Ambassador Khalilzad met men and women from all walks of the Afghan society to bring them together as a stakeholder in talks with the Taliban," the government official said.
The emphasis on "Afghan society" appeared aimed at persuading the Taliban to accept an Afghan delegation that does not officially represent the government.
Two Taliban officials in Afghanistan said they would continue engagement with Khalilzad, but would not say if their leaders would accept an Afghan delegation.
"We're watching every diplomatic move of the U.S. officials. We'll continue our fight until the U.S. accepts our demands," said Zabiullah Mujahid, a Taliban spokesman.

(Additional reporting by Jibran Ahmed, Abdul Qadir Sediqi; Editing by Kay Johnson, Robert Birsel)
Jump to

Title: Delhi shouldn't meddle in Kabul power games | Delhi shouldn't meddle in Kabul power games
Ideological preferences, and even blinkers, are legitimate. But political compulsions are equally important. In 1996, when the Taliban had taken control of over 90 per cent of Afghanistan, India had supported the Northern Alliance and it had even set up a military field hospital in Mazar-e-Sharif. At that time, the Russians too were on the anti-Taliban side. At the time of the Christmas 1999 hijacking of an Indian Airlines plane by terrorists seeking the release of Masood Azhar, the aircraft was parked at Kabul airport, which was controlled by the Taliban.
The Taliban did not have anything to do with the hijacking itself, but tried to show that they were playing neutral hosts. However, they were perhaps silently inimical towards India because of their linkage with Pakistan. But the Taliban did not do or say anything hostile towards India as such. When the Taliban blasted the Bamiyan Buddhas, there was condemnation of it in the Indian Parliament. Between 1996 and 2001, when the Taliban were in power, the Americans kept unofficial contacts with them, and there were also some commercial deals on the anvil.
After the American invasion in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks on the United States by Osama bin Laden’s Al Qaeda, the melting away of the Taliban, and the weak constitutional process that began, India became a supporter of these developments. While India was kept out the Bonn conference held in December 2001 at the insistence of Pakistan, New Delhi soon undertook economic reconstruction work in parts of Afghanistan. And India had also officially expressed the view that there cannot be a “good Taliban and bad Taliban”, and that the fanatical regime was unacceptable. It was an unexceptionable position. But it has so transpired that the elected governments of Afghanistan, both under Hamid Karzai and Abdul Ghani, were reaching out to the Taliban. The Americans too soon recognised that political stability in Afghanistan hinges on the Taliban joining the political system. The Taliban have adopted the apparently rigid position that there should be withdrawal of all foreign troops from Afghanistan before there could be any negotiations. It is possible that once all the foreign troops are out, the Taliban are likely to outflank the democratically-elected government.
India’s apprehensions of the return of a fanatical regime still hold good. If the Taliban return to power, which is a hypothesis, they may or may not deal with India and Iran on friendly terms because of their rigid Sunni ideology. Meanwhile, the Russians who had moved out of Afghanistan in 1989, have adopted the position that the Taliban may have to be armed to fight against the emergence of the Islamic State (ISIS), or Daesh, in the country. Whatever the cunning that may lie behind the Russian move, it makes strategic sense for Russia to oppose Daesh in Syria and in Afghanistan. But the right move would have been to arm the democratically-elected Kabul government rather than the Taliban. But it would be much better to prevent Taliban and Daesh joining hands.
Given the complications of the situation, India perhaps should not be sticking to simplistic positions, which are fine as far as they go. What New Delhi may have to consider is to maintain the position that India is in principle not opposed to the Taliban if the Islamist group adheres to basic democratic norms. The convoluted official Indian position, as stated by the external affairs ministry spokesman, of supporting an Afghan-directed, Afghan-controlled talks for the good of the people of Afghanistan makes eminent sense, but it will require a lot of fine-tuning on the ground.
New Delhi might have to put away the earlier perception that the Taliban in Afghanistan is the creation of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), which is indeed a fact, and think of ways of dealing with the Taliban, even if it means that the channel of communication to the Taliban is to be facilitated by Islamabad and the ISI. Even if India and Pakistan do not see eye to eye on bilateral issues, they may have to chart a common strategy towards Afghanistan. Of course, India and Pakistan would continue to look to ways to gain an upper hand in Afghanistan, but it would be much better if India remains in touch with the Taliban. In the long run, India has to offer more to Afghanistan by way of economic aid than Pakistan can ever hope to do. Pakistan can hope to scuttle India’s strong position in Afghanistan — given that a majority of Afghans love India and hate Pakistan — only by making space for Afghanistan in the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). India will have to learn to play a cleverer game.
Therefore, the Indian move to depute unofficial representatives to the Moscow-convened Afghanistan conference on November 9 was a good one. This should be followed by a subtler strategy of reckoning with the Taliban while supporting democracy in Afghanistan. The present Kabul government is seen as an American-backed puppet regime, which could fall if the foreign troops get out of the country. India should be supporting the efforts of President Abdul Ghani in reaching out to the Taliban.
The Great Game of the Big Powers of the 19th century centred around Afghanistan continues into the 21st century. India as an emergent power has a stake in Afghanistan, and it should learn lessons from the Russian and American involvement from 1978 to 2018 in that country. The biggest lesson for India is that it should not identify itself with any regime in Kabul, or with any other regime in the South Asian neighbourhood for that matter. Learning to deal with the Taliban is the first step.
Afghanistan is indeed a minefield in more senses than one, and it tests India’s diplomatic finesse to the hilt. This needs greater internal deliberation, which has been sadly lacking for the past two decades. India should not be seen as a sulking spectator at the Afghanistan conferences at a time when the Americans are exploring an exit strategy from the region.

Title: ZeroHedge 


Title: Managed Instability: Iran, the Taliban, and Afghanistan – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
Iran’s support for the Taliban is an effective way of retaliating against the United States, but there’s more to it.
On October 23, the Terrorist Financing Targeting Center (TFTC)imposed sanctionson two Iranian Quds Force officers for providing financial and military support to the Taliban. The TFTC’s decision, which was reached by the United States and its Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) allies, labelled Iran as complicit in the wave of terrorist attacks launched by the Taliban in recent months. In a statement that followed the TFTC’s ruling, U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Steve Mnuchin described Iran’s relationship with the Taliban as “yet another example of Tehran’s blatant regional meddling and support for terrorism.”
Mnuchin’s statement reflected the consensus within the Trump administration about Iran’s Taliban links. In May, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeoaccused Iranof supporting Taliban militants, and urged Tehran to suspend this relationship as a precondition for normalized diplomatic ties with the United States. Although U.S. officials have correctly drawn attention to the destabilizing consequences of this policy, there is inadequate evidence for claims that Iran wants to harm the security of the United States by creating a state of chaotic instability in Afghanistan.
The Iranian government’s restrained support for the Afghan Taliban is logical, as Tehran views the Taliban’s belligerent conduct as a threat to Iran’s national security. This threat perception has been heightened by a recent wave of terrorist attacks near the Iran-Afghanistan border. On November 2, a clash betweenrival Taliban factionsin western Afghanistan’s Herat province led to 30 fatalities. This attack was followed on November 7, by a Taliban-orchestrated strike ontwo military checkpointsin Farah province, which resulted in the deaths of seven Afghan police officers.
The frequency of these border clashes is a concern for Iranian policymakers, as instability in Afghanistan has adversely impacted Iran’s economic wellbeing and national security. Hamidreza Azizi, an assistant professor at Tehran’s Shahid Beheshti University and an expert at the Valdai Discussion Club, toldThe Diplomatthat Iranian authorities have struggled to contain the wave of Afghan refugees crossing the Iran-Afghanistan border. This refugee wave, combined with the lingering memories of the 1998 murder of 10 Iranian diplomats during the Taliban-orchestrated Mazar-i-Sharif siege, has caused Tehran to view a minimum degree of stability in Afghanistan as vital for Iran’s national security.
These concerns have caused Iran to create a state of managed instability in Afghanistan, where it supports the Taliban enough to complicate U.S. military objectives in Afghanistan, but refrains from backing the organization’s unbridled expansion. According to Michael Kugelman, deputy director of the Asia Program at the Wilson Center, Iran’s support for the Taliban is an effective way of retaliating against the United States for withdrawing from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) nuclear deal, as it allows Tehran to undermine U.S. interests while clinging to a façade of plausible deniability.
This controlled instability strategy closely mirrors Iran’s actions in Yemen. While the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps hasemphatically deniedproviding support for Yemen’s Houthi rebels, the Shiite organization has used Iranian financial and military assistance to stymie the progress of the Saudi Arabia-led military intervention in Yemen. As Iran lacks the financial resources to participate in Yemen’s reconstruction, it has not engaged in a Syria-style intervention on the behalf of the Houthis, but has still acted as an effective spoiler of U.S. interests in Yemen.
While Iran’s spoiler role in Afghanistan has become increasingly pronounced in recent months, as Tehran has helped the Taliban consolidate its authority in the western regions of Farah province, there are signs that Iran could ultimately detach itself from the Taliban’s belligerent activities. Iran hasconsistently participatedin the Moscow-format peace talks on Afghanistan and in Shanghai Cooperation Organization anti-ISIS initiatives to appear like a responsible stakeholder that advocates peace in Afghanistan.
In support of this end, Azizi described Iran’s strategy of engaging with moderate Taliban members as resembling Russian and U.S. attempts to end the war in Afghanistan. The Iranian government’s ostensible desire to stabilize Afghanistan mirrors its active diplomatic involvement in the Astana talks on Syria’s future, and has helped Tehran ease tensions with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s government in recent weeks.
These positive signs have been capitalized upon by U.S. officials, who are pursuing a two-pronged strategy of enticing Iran to act constructively in Afghanistan and punishing Tehran’s destabilizing activities. A U.S. Department of State official who handles Iran-related press matters toldThe Diplomatthat the United States is actively encouraging Iran to support the legitimate Afghan government and convince the Taliban to enter peace talks with Kabul. Engagement with Iran on Afghanistan’s security is important for U.S. interests, the official said, due to “Iran’s deep cultural connections with Shiite Muslims in western and central Afghanistan” and Iran’s status as the “number one source of imports into Afghanistan and number three market for Afghan exports.”
Although the Iranian government’s continued apathy toward Afghanistan’s Hazara Shiite community and the detrimental consequences ofIran’s deportationsof Afghan refugees highlight the limits of constructive engagement with Tehran over Afghanistan, these actions should be viewed in the broader context of Iran’s strategic ambitions. As U.S.-Iran tensions continue to escalate in the coming months, the war in Afghanistan could serve as both a flashpoint of confrontation between Washington and Tehran, and as a reminder of the constraints that restrict Iran’s ability to undermine U.S. interests in South Asia.
Samuel Ramani is a DPhil candidate in International Relations at St. Antony’s College, University of Oxford. He is also a contributor to the Washington Post and the National Interest. He can be followed onTwitter @samramani2.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: 
	Kerala deportee reveals IS secrets - The Hindu

To enjoy additional benefits
CONNECT WITH US
Updated- December 04, 2021 10:41 pm IST - New Delhi
Members of an IS-inspired module being brought to a Kochi court in 2016.
In 2013, when his best friend copied the speeches of radical Yemeni-American preacher Anwar Awlaki on his laptop computer, Nashidul Hamzafar did not realise that they would play a key role in motivating him to travel to Afghanistan to join the Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP).
In September this year, Hamzafar, 26, a resident of Kerala,became the first Indian ever to be deported by Afghanistanfor entering the country illegally to join the ISKP. He was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) soon after he returned.
His friendShihas was among the 21 men, women and children from Keralawho had left for Afghanistan via Iran to live in the IS-controlled territory in 2016. Mainly comprising defectors from the Tehrik-i-Taliban (TTP), the Wilayat Khorasan of the Islamic State in Afghanistan came into existence in 2015. Agencies suspect that this outfit is backed by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).
According to Hamzafar, Shihas works for the media team of the ISKP and another friend Ashfaq is in charge of hijra (migration).
Hamzafar’s interrogation revealed a well-oiled network of ISKP in Iran and Afghanistan that helped willing recruits to travel to the Nangarhar province, the stronghold of the terrorist outfit.
ALSO READSouth Asia, a fertile ground for ISIS
The interrogation report accessed byThe Hindusaid that in October 2017, after he reached Tehran, he was first taken to Isafahan in Iran and was dropped at a deportation camp by an unidentified person, sent by Shihas. He was charged $450.
“There was a long queue in the camp. I told the authorities that I was resident of Nooristan in Afghanistan. The address was given by the Iranian contact. They took me inside the camp and I stayed there that night. Next day they interviewed me and collected my biometrics. They got suspicious about my nationality and I was shifted to another camp. They deported all the Afghan citizens and I was forcefully put in a Pakistan deportation vehicle thinking that I was a Pakistani. I told one officer in that vehicle that I am an Afghani and requested him to send me to Afghanistan. Accordingly, he sent me to the Afghan camp,” Hamzafar told NIA.
He was dropped at Nimruz in Afghanistan, reached Kabul and managed to contact his friend Ashfak who sent another person identified as Abu Ali to pick him up. “No sooner did Ali drop me, the Afghan security force came and took us into custody...I initially pretended to be an Afghani…they found out that I was an Indian. They showed me the photographs of Shihas and Ashfaq and I agreed they were my friends… I was shifted to a big Afghan Intelligence jail and I was there for 3 months. After that I was again shifted to Bagram Jail, a U.S. jail. They took my biometrics and then locked me up in a cell. After three months of custody, I was deported to India,” he said.
Hamzafar wanted to emigrate to New Zealand till he was radicalised by speeches of Islamic preacher Zakir Naik and Canadian preacher Bilal Philips. Influenced by the radical ideology, he asked his parents not to watch television and told his mother and sister to cover themselves according to Islamic diktats. His father, who runs an automobile consultancy firm in Wayanad, had reprimanded Hamzafar on several occasions and deplored the IS ideology in conversations with him.
Hamzafar told the NIA that he dropped out of an undergraduate business management course he was pursuing from Dayanand Sagar College in Bengaluru. It was here that he met Shihas, also a resident of Kerala. Hamzafar told NIA that Shihas was not inclined towards religion in 2011 when they met first and was addicted to alcohol and cannabis.
The friends were visited by a Tablighi (Sunni Islamic movement) follower from Kerala at their rented accommodation in Bengaluru in 2012.
Meanwhile, Hamzafar met with an accident and his studies took a setback. He told the NIA that in the final year of college, Shihas was a changed person.
He had grown a beard and was inclined towards religious conversations. The friends attended Sunday classes at an Ahl-e-Hadees Mosque and became more interested in Salafi ideology.
The friends attended a programme funded by Zakir Naik’s Islamic Research Foundation (IRF). In the programme, comparisons were made between Islam and Christianity and the friends were successful in converting another friend, Bestin Vincent to Islam.Vincent alias Yahiya and his wife Mariyamare also said to have travelled to Afghanistan in 2016.
“During my stay at Kozhikode [in 2015], Shihas informed me that a revolution broke out in Iraq and it was by IS. One day he had shown me a video of IS activity in an IS controlled city, telecast on Wise TV. I used to oppose their activities and opined that I could comment only after studying about IS,” Hamzafar told NIA.
Hamzafar then went to Thiruvananthapuram to train in automobile repair. He then came to know from newspaper reports that Shihas, Bestin and another friend Firoz had joined the IS in Afghanistan.
“My parents were angry and showered abuses on Shihas and others for joining IS and strictly instructed me to avoid any relation with them. My father asked me to discard the number I used then,” Hamzafar said.
He said that six months after Shihas and others had left for Afghanistan, he got a message from him on WhatsApp but didn’t respond out of fear. “After a month, he wished me again through WhatsApp. Then he started sending voice messages and one day he instructed me to install Telegram. He said there was nothing to worry about. He said they were in Khilafath in Afghanistan and 99% media reports were lies and Khilafath is right and asked me to study about it,” Hamzafar said.
Shihas sent him reading material about IS. “After reading the files I argued with Shihas on the topic. I was of the view that it related to an ancient period of time that was not relevant in the present scenario. But Shihas countered my view by arguing that Prophet’s ways were always relevant. I became more interested in IS matters gradually and I wanted to learn more. During May, 2017 Shihas added me in a WhatsApp group by name ‘Message to Kerala’. There were 6 audio clips of Abdul Rashid circulated in the group at that time. After hearing the clips, my objection towards IS ideology became soft,” he said.
Hamzafar said he went to Bahrain in May 2017 on the pretext of a job and contacted Shihas to say that he wanted to join the IS. He quit his job and went to Oman where he was joined by another friend - Habeeb. The two travelled to Iran on Shihas’ instructions.
After they reached Iran in October 2017, Habeeb developed cold feet after he spoke to his parents and decided to return.

Published- November 12, 2018 12:44 am IST
religion and belief/Kerala
Copyright© 2024, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
BACK TO TOP
Terms & conditions|Institutional Subscriber
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by ourcommunity guidelinesfor posting your comments.
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.

Title: Afghanistan’s Most Powerful Person Announces Bid for April Presidential Elections – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
Mohammad Hanif Atmar vows to put an end to the ongoing insurgency as he announces his candidacy.
Todya, former Afghan National Security Adviser Mohammad Hanif Atmar announced his candidacy for next year’s presidential elections. Atmar has been a central figure in Afghanistan for years. He signed the 2014 Bilateral Security Agreement (BSA) with the United States and inked a 2016 peace deal with Hizb-i-Islami (Islamic Party), an extremist insurgent faction that had been fighting with Afghan and later U.S. forces for decades. The Hizbi-i-Islami accord was the first successful peace deal between the Afghan government and insurgents.
Atmar resigned from his NSA position three months ago, citing concerns over the security situation, political instability, and differences with President Ashraf Ghani on major policy issues. Western diplomats stationed in Kabul and Afghan citizens were concerned about Atmar’s resignation, fearing that his absence would cast a shadow over the country’s fragile National Unity Government at a time when it was already reeling from Taliban attacks and emerging presence of Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP). Moreover, Atmar’s presence was sorely needed for brokering a peace deal with the Taliban.
After the successful breakthrough with Hizb-e-Islami, Atmar is eager to conclude a peace deal with the Taliban, and firmly believes that goal is possible. During his visit to Washington D.C. last March,he said that the government“should negotiate with anyone who is reconcilable,” including the Haqqani Network.
Since 2001, in the post-Taliban era, Atmar has been at the center of Afghan politics and major decision making. He has been successful in consolidating political power since his return to Afghanistan from Britain following the U.S.-led invasion of Afghanistan. Since then, Atmar has served in key positions as minister of rural development and rehabilitation in Hamid Karzai’s transitional government from 2002-2006, education minister from 2006-2008. and interior minister from 2008-2010. As national security adviser in the current administration from 2014-2018, Atmar was widely considered the most competent strategist, a leader with a vision.
Atmar was involved in almost every major decision by the government: dealing with powerful warlords, ethnic politics, foreign policy, brokering political deals, and negotiations with the Taliban. Due to his effectiveness in influencing regional and international politics and excellent services, Ghani conferred upon him the highest state medal in 2016. Atmar played a pivotal role in restoring NATO’s trust in Afghanistan, after which NATO pledged its support to Afghanistan in the long run.
Atmar role in fight against the ISKP has been of particular importance. Through his shrewd strategy he was able to thwart the group in Afghanistan’s eastern province of Nangarhar. Moreover, he was able to keep the fight under Afghan government control and out of the hands of the regional strongmen inclined to armed militias. Neighboring countries were tacitly helping the local warlords and strongmen create their own armed militias under the pretext of fight against the ISKP. Militias have historically posed a threat to rule of law in Afghanistan as well as being behind human rights violations. But Atmar kept the fight against the ISKP and anti-terrorism efforts under the Afghan security forces’ supervision and command, helped by the U.S. troops present in Afghanistan.
Amid intensified peace talks with Taliban and political bickering among the leaders of the National Unity Government, political alliances have been making and breaking. Since Atmar’s resignation from his position as NSA, political horse-trading and coalition-building has sped up. There has been tacit conversation among opposition leaders and some key people in the government, who are all jockeying for political mileage and share in the next government — and Atmar remains the focal point. There are reports that Jamiat-e-Islami (JI) and the Northern Alliance, which used to blame Atmar for centralizing power, has come to back him in his bid for the next presidential elections. Western-educated technocrats and most of the current cabinet ministers are reportedly backing him too. While political deals and maneuverings are on the rise behind closed doors, the political opposition is becoming more vocal in its criticism of the current government.
Next year’s presidential election remains a serious matter not only for Afghanistan but for the international community, particularly the United States. At a critical time when the United States is in direct conversation with Taliban insurgents, the election is of critical importance to avoid political deadlock and crisis such as followed the previous presidential election in 2014. Back then, after a long tussle between Ghani and runner-up Abdullah Abdullah, then-U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry brokered a deal by introducing the new position of chief executive officer for Abdullah. The position – and thus the deal — was unconstitutional and sparked criticism from the public.
Though security remains a priority and continues to dominate the news on Afghanistan,, there is even more at stake. The country’s fragile internal political and ethnic imbalance could become worse if not controlled through a rational approach. One of the major upcoming challenges for Afghan politicians and the international community, especially the United States, will be how to handle the expected political deadlock and respond to strongmen who often want to take their share in the government by force. This could be done through backing a national leader who has public support and can bring all ethnic groups together under one umbrella through consensus.
Ahmad Shah Katawazai is the member of the Academy of Sciences of Afghanistan and former defense liaison at the Afghan Embassy Washington D.C. Katawazai has a master’s degree in Global Security Studies from Johns Hopkins University and a master’s in International Legal Studies from American University. Katawazai is a published writer. You can follow him on Twitter: @askatawazai
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: Afghanistan: Armed Conflict: 15 Nov 2018: Hansard Written Answers - TheyWorkForYou
Foreign and Commonwealth Office written question – answered                at  on15 November 2018.
Alert me about debates like this
To ask Her Majesty's Government whether they are taking part in theUS’s strategic review of the situation in Afghanistan; and whether any progress has been made in ending Afghanistan’s war since theUnited Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistanreport in July that civilian deaths in Afghanistan for the first six months of 2018 were at a record high.
​The British Governmentis committed to an Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace and reconciliation process. Civilian casualties are a tragic result of the ongoing insurgency and of terrorist attacks, including byISKP. We continue to urge all sides to take all measures possible to avoid civilian casualties. It is vital that the lives of civilians must be protected. A political solution is the only way to achieve lasting peace and stability in Afghanistan and the region. The Afghan Government has shown an impressive commitment to peace. It is time for the Taleban's leaders to show true courage and true leadership and work for peace.
Yes0 people think so
No0 people think not
Would you like toask a question like this yourself? Use ourFreedom of Information site.
Making it easy to keep an eye on the UK’s parliaments. Discover who represents you, how they’ve voted and what they’ve said in debates – simply and clearly.
Sign up to mySociety’s newsletter
Your data
This site is not publicly funded. Support our mission of making UK politics more transparent and accessible.
Built bymySociety
mySocietyis a registered charity in England and Wales (1076346) and a limited company (03277032). We provide commercial services through our wholly owned subsidiarySocietyWorks Ltd(05798215).

Title: Taliban Unmasked: Afghan Taliban’s Continued Symbiotic Relationship with al Qaeda and International Terrorism | Small Wars Journal
Taliban Unmasked: Afghan Taliban’s Continued Symbiotic Relationship with al Qaeda and International Terrorism

Tamim Asey

At a recent peace conference in Moscow, Taliban representatives sat in front of the Russian media and gave interviews to a select number of Russian women journalists. It was a message of change when compared to their brutal regime and their repressive policies toward Afghan women. Themove was calculated and strategic; it was meantto send a message to the world that they have changed andare no longera threat to regional and global security. The question is, have they really changed and cut ties with Al Qaeda and its allies? Are they different after almost two decades of fighting? Has the Taliban movement been fundamentally transformed, or they have just become ‘good politicians’, i.e. pretenders, sugarcoating themselves into a new role only to change later once they once again assume power?

On the other hand, US and its NATO allies feel they are bear-trapped in Afghanistan and are risk averse. They are in a rush to a graceful exit foritsforceswith political cover claiminga successful conclusion to the Afghan war. This mindset has led topretending the Afghan Taliban have changed, and they are now effectively representing an insurgency against an Afghan government marked by corruption, warlordism and a lack of a broad-based government in Kabul.This is a huge simplification of a much more complex problem with regional and global dimensions – without even a mention concerning the role they played in haphazard and quick fix policies and an unwillingness to address the big elephant in the room - Taliban safe-havens across the border in Pakistan under the cover and support of the notorious Pakistani Inter Service Intelligence Service (ISI).

The bottom-line remains just as it has over the last 17 years - the Afghan Talibanhavenot changed and has deep ties with remnants of Al Qaeda and regional terror organizations - afact long known to Western and regional intelligence agencies.TheTaliban, as a group, haven’t changed in nature and its objectives. Itstill serves as an umbrella organization to many terrorist organizations including Al Qaeda and provide them an enabling environment to plan, train and equip for their next deadly missions in the subcontinent and beyond. Any scheme to use Talibanas a proxy forcefor fighting Al Qaeda and ISKP will be an exercise in futility. Taliban and its allies continue to pose security threats to the United States and its allies. Though, what has really changed about the Taliban is their increasing legitimacy as a proxy force and guns for hire by regional security agencies. Today - there are at least six different factions within the Taliban on the payroll of Afghan neighbors and their security establishments. Pakistan no longer controls a monopoly of control over the Taliban as a proxy force and their many shuras, i.e. councils, in many Pakistani cities. The Taliban are effectively a rag-tag force for hire to the highest regional bidder – and is one with deep ties to organized crime in the region.

The Taliban and Al Qaeda

The Taliban and Al Qaeda still enjoy a cosy and intimate relationship. Taliban leaders from the Quetta shura participated in the coronation ceremony of Bin Laden’s son as his successor while Al Qaeda’s second-in-command paid his tribute and declared loyalty to both the former Taliban Emir, Mullah Akhtar Mohammad Mansoor, and the incumbent leader of Taliban, Maulavi Haibatullah Akhund, who have both enjoyed religious and political support from Al Qaeda leadership. Furthermore, Al Qaeda’s leader, Ayman Al Zawahiri, has sent delegations to mediate between Taliban leaders when differences emerged between different factions within the Taliban on matters related to leadership succession, logistics, war and peace. Al Qaeda has also used its network of fundraisers in the Gulf countries to raise funds for the “Taliban jihad” in Afghanistan.

Just after 9/11,President George W. Bush inannouncing a global war on terror andOperation Enduring Freedom, laid out three conditions for the Taliban regime to remain in power:cut ties with Al Qaeda, hand over Osama Bin Laden and respect human rights.Almost two decades later, Taliban leaders continue to receive advice, financial support - albeit meager - and host Al Qaeda’s second in command Ayman Al Zawahiri; Osama bin Laden was not handedoverand lived under the protection of the Taliban and their Pakistani sponsors until the job was done by American Special Operations and finally the Taliban continue to violate human rights en mass and provide sanctuary to regional terror outfits such as ETIM, Al Qaeda, LeT and the like.Those who legitimize the Taliban as merely an insurgent group with no ambitions beyond Afghanistan should simply look at their brothers in arms in different battles i.e. Punjabis, Arabs, Uzbeks, Uighurs and others. Today, one third of the battlefield manpower of Taliban consist of foreign fighters who fight under the command and rank of Taliban across Afghanistan.Why call them merely an insurgency and provide them political cover while sugarcoating their actions and intentions two decades later?

The United States toppled the Taliban regime because it hosted and provided enablers for Osama Bin Laden and his lieutenants who carried out the tragic attacks of 9/11, not because they were running a reign of terror on Afghans. How have we come to calling this terror group an insurgency fighting for an internal cause?The truth is that the Taliban have neither changed in nature nor in objectives. It is still serving as an umbrella organization and incubator of various terrorist groups. It has not shown, neither in word nor in action, that it has denounced Al Qaeda and cut its ties with all terrorist organizations. Any other portrayal of this group is puremyth and a political convenience.

The Taliban and ISKP

The old maxim of “the enemy of my enemy is my friend” does not hold true when it comes to using the Taliban as a proxy force to fight Islamic State offshoots in the AfPak region. While the approach and organization of the two groups may be different but essentially the Taliban movement share the same religious ideology and world view as IS. ISKP is a mixture of disenchanted Taliban and various jihadi groups members with a flavor of various regional intelligence projects. Taliban have never fought ISKP groups in any part of Afghanistan in a meaningful way. Often, Taliban operations against ISKP were retaliatory in nature or based on orders from the Iranian Revolutionary Guard, Russian KGB or the Pakistani ISI for clearance operations along Afghan-Iranian and Afghan-Pakistani borders. The Taliban, to date, lack a coherent anti-Daesh campaign whereas Afghan forces have killed at least three ISKP emirs, and dozens of its deputies and mid-ranking commanders.

In fact – the Taliban have pooled resources and joined hands with ISKP in certain parts of Afghanistan - especially in the north and north eastern parts of the country to fight Afghan forces. There is also a close relationship between the Haqqani, the Taliban’s off-shoot fighting arm, and ISKP – it’s almost an alliance since a close member of the Haqqani family is considered to be one of the founders of an ISKP branch.

The Taliban and Regional Terrorist Groups

The Taliban movement continues to serve as an umbrella organization for regional terrorist groups fromPakistani.e. LeT, JeM, Sepah e Sahaba and the likes;Arab-mercenary fighters from Libya, Iraq and Syria;Central Asia- IMU, Ansarullah, Jundullah;China- ETIM;Russia- various Chechen groups. These groups bring critical skill set and resources to the Taliban leadership and battlefield that includes explosive making, effective command and control - and above all - extortion through organized crime. One third of the strength of Taliban fighters on various battlefields are foreign fighters from a mixture of these groups. This was the case when the Taliban regime was in power in the 1990s and they used these groups in battles against the former recognized government of Afghanistan led by former President Burhannuddin Rabbani.

Today, Pakistani, Arab, Central Asian, Russia and Chinese terrorist groups who are fighting in Afghanistan provide critical skill sets, i.e. command and control, explosives and bomb making, in their fight against US, NATO and Afghan forces. On the contrary, the foreign fighters are merely transit fighters, many of whom will jump at the first opportunity of waging jihad and attacking targets in their countries of origin, except for Pakistani fighters who are almost state-sanctioned.

The Cost of the Taliban Returning to Power

Taliban have not yet demonstrated, in word or action, that they have cut ties with Al Qaeda; no longer serve as an umbrella and incubator to regional and global terrorist organizations and will not serve as another Hezbollah type proxy group to Russia and Iran. Therefore, any effort of legitimization of this group as an indigenous insurgent group with no agenda beyond Afghan borders is an exercise in futility because their return to power would embolden their terrorist allies and reinforce their conservative Islamic view of the world. This essentially means we are back to ground-zero and that the sacrifices of US, NATO and Afghans in blood and national-treasure were in vein. To avoid such a scenario, the United States together with Afghans needs to reach consensus on three major points:
Any measures short of these actions will only serve to emboldened Islamic terrorist groups, aid in the resurgence of Al Qaeda, and lead to a possible civil war in Afghanistan with the current Afghan government and security forces in disarray and a party to it. Time and credible action are of essence here.

Tamim Asey is the former Afghan Deputy Minister of Defense and Director General at the Afghan National Security Council. He is currently pursuing a Ph.D in Security studies in London. He can be reached via twitter @tamimasey and Facebook @Tamim Asey
©2005-2020
Small Wars Journal is published bySmall Wars Foundation- a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation.Original content is published under aCreative Commons Licenseper ourTerms of Use.
© Copyright 2024| Site by3C Web Services

Title: Can Russia Help Bring Peace to Afghanistan? – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
Russia’s reconciliation efforts should align with Afghanistan’s needs.
In 2001, Russia backed the U.S. intervention in Afghanistan, which led to the collapse of the Taliban regime and the creation of a new government. Since then, Russia has supported the new system and has madecontributionsto reconstruction efforts in the country, including training the Afghan security forces, supplying military equipment, supporting jointcounternarcotics activitieswith the United States, andproviding somelevel of development aid. The post-2001 phase of the conflict in Afghanistan has lingered for more than 17 years now, and the Taliban have re-emerged as a force thatcontestmore than half of Afghan territory. With the war at a stalemate, Afghanistan, the United States, and regional powers are trying to seek a political solution. Russia, too, is trying to do its part by reaching out to the Taliban to help kickstart a peace process, however, there is confusion over Moscow’s overtures to the Taliban and the end goal of its efforts.
In 2016, Russia initiated a series of meetings among countries neighboring Afghanistan known as the Moscow Process. In the first meeting, Afghanistanwas not even invited– only Russia, China, and Pakistan attended the meeting. In 2017, Afghanistan, India, and several Central Asiancountries were added. The United States did not attend any of the meetings andperceived them asan overlapping effort that lacked clarity. In 2018, a thirdmultilateral dialoguewas planned to which the Taliban were invited. The Afghan government declined to attend on the grounds that the Taliban were invited to the meeting as an equal peer, and the Taliban on the other hand refused to engage in direct talks with the Afghan government. For Kabul, the move undermined the legitimacy of its own initiative, the U.S.-backed Kabul Process. The dialogue was ultimately postponed, and may or may not take place in the future as sides have not been able toagree on the purpose and the content of the meeting.
Moscow’s contact with the Taliban is not new and there have beencontacts since 2005. Russia has allegedly shared intelligence with the Taliban, and there has been much speculation that Moscow has even armed them. Whether these claims are true or false, Russia’s contact with the Taliban has given thegroup a degree of legitimacy andrecognition at a time when the Afghan government could use some of that legitimacy and recognition itself. Russia has also been in contact with some Afghanwarlords in the north. To add to the confusion, since 2016, Russia hasbeen conducting annual joint military drills withPakistan along the Afghan border. Some Afghans areconcerned thatAfghanistan once again may become a geopolitical battlefield between the two great powers, this time the United States and Russia. This could take Afghanistan to a different and more dangerous level of turmoil than even the current conflict.
Moscow’s main concerns in Afghanistan are linked to the expansion of the Islamic State’s regional iteration, the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), and the flow of narcotics northward. These are legitimate concerns. Russia has said its contact with the Taliban is for the safety of its citizens present in Afghanistan and to end the Afghan conflict. However, Russia does not have a sizable footprint in Afghanistan to protect, and its engagement with the Taliban has had no impact on the level of violence in the country. Moscow hasrejected theidea that it is using the Taliban to fight ISKP. The Afghan Taliban has a narrow national focus on reinstating a puritan system in Afghanistan whereas the Islamic State is considered a transnational threat with a continental agenda.
Kabul insists that the Afghan reconciliation process must be “Afghan-led and Afghan-owned,” but has shown flexibility. Afghanistan has cautiouslywelcomed effortsthat may help initiate a genuine peace process involving the Taliban. In late 2012, thegroup met with a numberof Afghan factions, representatives of the government and international observers in Chantilly, and inlater years inOslo and several other venues, including the most anticipated semi-direct talks in Murree,Pakistan, in 2015. In February 2018, when Afghan President Ashraf Ghani announced a roadmap for peace, including a bold offer to recognize the Taliban as a political party in return for peace, further politicaldialogues were heldin Mecca, Tashkent, Jakarta, and elsewhere. These efforts display Afghanistan’s realization of the importance of creating an international consensus on peacemaking in the country and bringing the Taliban into the political fold. However, parallel processes that seek different outcomes for short-term gains can be counterproductive.
The United States, too, is not necessarily against regional cooperation in Afghanistan. The U.S. Department of State has appointed ambassadorZalmay Khalilzad, a veteran diplomat, asU.S. Special Advisor for Afghanistan Reconciliation. Khalilzadhas traveled to theregion and met with regional actors, including Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, and Qatar. Washington has been in contact with theTalibantoo, including directofficial contactswith the group’s political office in Doha. U.S. engagement with the Taliban has taken place in consultation with, if not with the permission of, the Afghan government.
As for U.S.-Russia talks on Afghanistan, there hasn’t been a breakthrough. The United States has avoided the Moscow Process and emphasized alternatives, such as the Kabul Process. Russia, on the other hand, has insisted on the usefulness of its own process. At a time when U.S.-Russia relations are soured in several areas including disagreements on Syria, Ukraine, and the Intermediate-Range NuclearForces (INF) Treaty. Afghanistan may be one of the few areas where the two countries could cooperate.
Russia’s overarching security interests, mainly transnational terrorism and drug trafficking, align with Afghan and American objectives. Moscow’s efforts can be useful when they are well defined and are held in unison with efforts by Afghanistan and the United States, as two major parties to the conflict. Engaging with the Taliban for humanitarian causes and the initiating of a peace process is inevitable. Nonetheless, contacts that can embolden and disincentive the group to come the negotiating tables goes against the stabilization needs of Afghanistan. Russia’s peacemaking efforts must meet Afghanistan’s needs, which include initiating negotiations, achieving a political solution, and ultimately peace, and then maintaining that peace. This entails encouraging the Taliban to the negotiating table without undermining the Afghan government. Afghanistan can only achieve and maintain peace when the Afghan state is capable of governing, accountable to its citizens and acts as a responsible member of the international community. Afghanistan cannot be stabilized when actors rely on non-state actors to secure their perceived national interests.
Said Sabir Ibrahimi is a Research Associate for Afghanistan-Pakistan Regional Project at New York University’s Center on International Cooperation. Opinions expressed in this essay are personal. Follow at @Saberibrahimi
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: NIA’s interrogation of Kerala IS recruit reveals dark realities of radicalisation
The National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) interrogation report (IR) of 26-year-old Nashidul Hamzafar, a Wayanad native who travelled to Afghanistan in October 2017 allegedly to join the Islamic State (IS), reveals some dark details about the process of radicalisation that young people can go through due to the influence of friends and online materials.
Hamzafar’s IR also reveals the IS machinery in place in Iran and Afghanistan, which eases access for potential IS recruits, and the journey that IS recruits embark upon once they leave India.
The Indian Expressreportsthat Hamzafar travelled to Afghanistan allegedly to join the IS upon being persuaded to do so by 14 other youths from Palakkad and Kasargod, some of whom were his friends from Kerala and Bangalore, who had also joined the terrorist group before him. The Hindureportsthat Hamzafar was also allegedly influenced by the teachings of Yemeni-American preacher Anwar Awlaki, whose sermons he downloaded online, and by the visit of a Tablighi Jamaat teacher to his rented home whilst studying in a Bangalore college.
It was in Bangalore that he met his friends Shihas and Bestin Vincent, who later converted to Islam and goes by the name Yahiya. Shihas and Yahiya both live in Afghanistan now. According to Hamzafar, Shihas had a particularly strong influence on changing his ways of thinking and reportedly helped him in his short-lived migration to IS-controlled areas. Shihas works for the media team of ISKP (Islamic State Khorasan Province). Another friend, Ashfaq, is allegedly in charge of migration, and also helped him in his journey.
Hamzafar reportedly left for Oman in May 2017 with valid travel documents, and from there travelled on to Iran in order to make his way to Afghanistan. In Iran, he was dropped off at a deportation camp meant for Afghans to be deported back to Afghanistan. The officials at that camp became suspicious of his nationality, not believing that he was actually an Afghan. He was instead sent to a Pakistani deportation camp, as the officials thought he was Pakistani.
Hamzafar’s IR report, as quoted by the Indian Express, says: “I told one officer I am an Afghani and requested him to send me to Afghanistan. Accordingly, he sent me back to the Afghan camp.”
Thus, he was sent to Nimruz province in Afghanistan, where he made his way to Kabul and contacted his friend Ashfaq. Ashfaq sent over a friend named Abu Ali, but they were almost immediately apprehended by Afghan authorities. The Hindu reports that his IR says, “I was shifted to a big Afghan Intelligence jail and I was there for 3 months. After that I was again shifted to Bagram Jail, a US jail. They took my biometrics and then locked me up in a cell. After three months of custody, I was deported to India.” This was in September, when he was immediately arrested by the NIA.
When Hamzafar was allegedly told about IS’ “revolution” by Shihas in 2015, he was not convinced and told Shihas he was opposed to their activities. His parents “showered abuses” on Shihas, Bestin and other friends when it came to be known that they had left Kerala to join IS, and insisted that he drop all contact with them and change his mobile number.
However, six months after Shihas and the others had left for Afghanistan, Hamzafar received a WhatsApp greeting from Shihas, which he ignored. A month later, he received another, and Shihas began sending him voice notes, and then asked him to join Telegram. On that chat service, Shihas began indoctrinating Hamzafar, telling him he was in IS-controlled Khilafath, Afghanistan, and that the media reports about IS were untrue, and that Khilafath was “right”. Shihas began sending him reading material on IS, and Hamzafar was finally swayed by the voice notes of the Islamic preacher Abdul Rashid, which he received when Shihas added him to a group called Message to Kerala in May 2017. Hamzafar went to Bahrain that same month, under the pretext of a job, and contacted Shihas to tell him of his desire to join the IS.
© thenewsminute 2024

Title: Role of Russia in Afghanistan’s Peace Process - The Daily Outlook Afghanistan
Afghanistan was one of unique area where  U.S and Russia have had cooperation both in toppling the Taliban Regime and  creation of the new government. They have also taken parts in reconstruction  efforts in the country, including training the Afghan security forces,  supplying military equipment, supporting joint counternarcotic activities with  the United States, and providing some level of development aid. As the  post-2001 phase of the conflict in Afghanistan has lingered for more than 17  years now, and the Taliban have re-emerged as a force that contest more than  half of Afghan territory. With the war at a stalemate, Afghanistan, the United  States, and regional powers are trying to seek a political solution. Russia,  too, is trying to do its part by reaching out to the Taliban to help kick-start  a peace process, however, there is confusion over Moscow’s overtures to the  Taliban and the end goal of its efforts.In 2016, Russia initiated a series of  meetings among countries neighboring Afghanistan known as the Moscow Process.  In the first meeting, Afghanistan was not even invited only Russia, China, and  Pakistan attended the meeting. In 2017, Afghanistan, India, and several Central  Asian countries were added. The United States did not attend any of the  meetings and perceived them as an overlapping effort that lacked clarity. In  2018, a third multilateral dialogue was planned to which the Taliban were  invited. The Afghan government declined to attend on the grounds that the  Taliban were invited to the meeting as an equal peer, and the Taliban on the  other hand refused to engage in direct talks with the Afghan government.For  Kabul, the move undermined the legitimacy of its own initiative, the  U.S.-backed Kabul Process. The dialogue was ultimately postponed, and may or  may not take place in the future, as sides have not been able to agree on the  purpose and the content of the meeting. Moscow’s contact with the Taliban is  not new and there have been contacts since 2005. Russia has allegedly shared  intelligence with the Taliban, and there has been much speculation that Moscow  has even armed them. Whether these claims are true or false, Russia’s contact  with the Taliban has given the group a degree of legitimacy and recognition at  a time when the Afghan government could use some of that legitimacy and  recognition itself. To add to the confusion, since 2016, Russia has been  conducting annual joint military drills with Pakistan along the Afghan border.  Some Afghans are concerned that Afghanistan once again may become a geopolitical  battlefield between the two great powers, this time the United States and  Russia. This could take Afghanistan to a different and more dangerous level of  turmoil than even the current conflict.Russia’s main concerns in Afghanistan are  linked to the expansion of the Islamic State’s regional iteration, the Islamic  State Khorasan Province (ISKP), and the flow of narcotics northward. These are  legitimate concerns. Russia has said its contact with the Taliban is for the  safety of its citizens present in Afghanistan’s Territory, and for putting an  end to the Afghan conflict. However, Russia does not have a sizable footprint  in Afghanistan to protect, and its engagement with the Taliban has had no  impact on the level of violence in the country. Moscow has rejected the idea  that it is using the Taliban to fight ISKP. The Afghan Taliban has a narrow  national focus on reinstating a puritan system in Afghanistan whereas the  Islamic State is considered a transnational threat with a continental agenda.Afghan Officials insist that the Afghan  reconciliation process must be “Afghan-led and Afghan-owned,” but has shown  flexibility. Afghanistan has cautiously welcomed efforts that may help initiate  a genuine peace process involving the Taliban. In late 2012, the group met with  a number of Afghan factions, representatives of the government and  international observers in Chantilly, and in later years in Oslo and several  other venues, including the most anticipated semi-direct talks in Murre,  Pakistan, in 2015. In February 2018, when Afghan President Ashraf Ghani  announced a roadmap for peace, including a bold offer to recognize the Taliban  as a political party in return for peace, further political dialogues were held  in Mecca, Tashkent, Jakarta, and elsewhere. These efforts display Afghanistan’s  realization of the importance of creating an international consensus on  peacemaking in the country and bringing the Taliban into the political fold.  However, parallel processes that seek different outcomes for short-term gains  can be counterproductive.Thus, the United States has avoided the  Moscow Process and emphasized alternatives, such as the Kabul Process. Russia,  on the other hand, has insisted on the usefulness of its own process. At a time  when U.S.-Russia relations are soured in several areas including disagreements  on Syria, Ukraine, and the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF). Afghanistan  may be one of the few areas where the two countries could cooperate.Overall, the Moscow’s efforts can be  useful when they are well defined and are held in harmony with efforts by  Afghanistan and the United States, as two major parties to the conflict.  Engaging with the Taliban for humanitarian causes and the initiating of a peace  process is inevitable. Nonetheless, contacts that can embolden and disincentive  the group to come the negotiating tables goes against the stabilization needs  of Afghanistan. Russia’s peacemaking efforts must meet Afghanistan’s needs,  which include initiating negotiations, achieving a political solution, and ultimately  peace, and then maintaining that peace. This entails encouraging the Taliban to  the negotiating table without undermining the Afghan government. Afghanistan  can only achieve and maintain peace when the Afghan state is capable of  governing, accountable to its citizens and acts as a responsible member of the  international community. Afghanistan cannot be stabilized when actors rely on  non-state actors to secure their perceived national interests.
Mohammad Zahir Akbari is the permanent writer of the Daily Outlook Afghanistan. He can be reached at mohammadzahirakbari@gmail.com
Copyright ©2010www.outlookafghanistan.net - All Rights Reserved.

Title: Afghan Reconciliation Initiatives: vindication of Pakistan? - Daily Times
Daily Times
Your right to knowTuesday, September 24, 2024
Pakistan

Imtiaz Gul
November 7, 2018

The latest visit by a senior US diplomat Alice Wells took place just a few days ahead of a regional consultative meeting at Moscow involving Iran, China, Pakistan, Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and the host Russia. A Taliban delegation will also join the talks.
Alice Well’s stop-over in Islamabad came to the backdrop of a few rounds of overt and covert direct US-Taliban talks. Most detractors had laughed off the proposal of direct talks as Pakistan’s “vested interest.” Some had called it the “result of Islamabad’s obsession with the notion strategic depth.” Others had dubbed it as bias towards its proxies (Taliban).
But by getting directly in touch with the Taliban, the US administration finally shunned its opposition to directly engaging the Afghan Taliban, thereby acknowledging an unavoidable ground reality. Taliban have managed to bleed the country. The year 2018 has sofar been the bloodiest. The perpetration of violence by ISKP/Daesh fuels the conflict further.
Forced by these circumstances, the US opened direct talks with the Doha-based Taliban, and is set to follow-up the first two informal rounds with more talks, and essentially turning its earlier position on its head; from terrorists and hosts of dreaded Al-Qaeda , the US is now treating TTA as a much sought after direct interlocutor, and literally enforced the release of five important leaders from the notorious Guantanamo Bay prison. Their release is likely to unleash the next round of reconciliation-focused discussions with Washington.
And , to top it all, Gen. Scott Miller, the new U.S. commander in Afghanistan, thinks ” now is the time to start working through the political piece of this conflict”.
“My assessment is the Taliban also realizes they cannot win militarily. So if you realize you can’t win militarily at some point, fighting is just, people start asking why. So you do not necessarily wait us out, but I think now is the time to start working through the political piece of this conflict.”
President Trump’s desperation to flag some success for a face-saving exit and continued casualties seem to be the main triggers for the transformation in the US strategy on Afghanistan.
And hence the direct negotiations with the Afghan Taliban, who have agreed to participate in the proposed Moscow too. Following initial refusal, President Ashraf Ghani, too, has apparently agreed to send in a delegation of the High Peace Council (HPC) for participation in the crucial meeting set for later this week.
But, following the virtual demise of the Quadrilateral Contact Group (QCG), and the US readiness to engage with the Taliban, the Moscow round can be crucial in many ways.
Firstly, it brings most of the direct regional stakeholders together, all those who find themselves on one page for the future roadmap
Secondly, in a rare move, this round will bring Taliban and the National Unity Government representatives face to face – despite reservations about each other; the former reject NUG altogether and hence their insistence sofar on direct talks with the US (which foots the bulk of the bill for the entire Afghan government). Ghani on his part has been calling for talks but still hesitant in sitting next to Taliban representatives at a mediated forum Thirdly, the Trump administration faces mounting pressure at home, with questions being asked about the justification for the continued presence in Afghanistan. Almost half of Americans (49%) think the U.S. has “mostly failed” in Afghanistan. The latest PEW survey also says, that only about one-third of Americans think the country’s longest war has been a success, and that 39% of them say it was the wrong idea to use military force.
Michael Kugelman, South Asia Deputy Director at the Wilson Center, says “No matter how you slice it, this war has gone from bad to worse. Little wonder it’s so unpopular.”
Fourth, 17 years ago, Pakistan’s efforts to convince the Bush Administration about the futility of military option fell on deaf ears. Today, it is following exactly the same advice. Then, the Bush administration was fuming and directed the entire Operation Enduring Freedom at Al-Qaeda and its hosts. Now, 17 years down the late, the hosts are the major acceptable dialogue partners, and Daesh has replaced Al-Qaeda in the war strategy.
US goalposts have shifted, it seems.
Fifth, for too long the US and allies projected Pakistan’s emphasis on engagement with the Taliban as an advocacy for its “Pashtoon proxies” whereas the reality has been that Pashtoons are the largest ethnic group and have kept the insurgency alive – drawing support presumably from their support base from inside the country. Here its not just Pakistan; China, Russia, Central Asian States, Iran and Turkey are all singing the same song just because the ground reality dictates so.
Lastly, the grand consensus – Moscow Process and the US-Taliban engagement – should make the cockcrowing on terrorist safe havens in Pakistan, its alleged support for Taliban or the occasional objections on the Pakistani border management practically redundant.
The way forward rests on an all-inclusive approach on reconciliation. The message from Beijing, Moscow, Turkey and Tehran as well as most central Asian Republics is loud and clear; Pakistan alone cannot be held responsible for the problem as well as the resolution. Secondly, peace might remain elusive if Iran – the second most important strategic neighbor of Afghanistan beside Pakistan – is kept out of the peace process. The latest sanctions hardly augur well for the Afghan reconciliation.
Published in Daily Times, November 7th2018.




More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category

HomeLead StoriesLatest NewsEditor’s Picks
CultureLife & StyleFeaturedVideos
EditorialsOP-EDSCommentaryAdvertise
CartoonsLettersBlogsPrivacy Policy
ContactCompany’s FinancialsInvestor InformationTerms & Conditions
FacebookTwitterInstagramYoutube
Copyright © 2024 Daily TimesWebsite Developed ByDaily Times Developers

Title: A new approach in Afghanistan: China and India take steps toward cooperation | Middle East Institute








Vinay Kaura
The joint training of 10 Afghan diplomats by India and China at the Indian Foreign Service Institute in New Delhi onOct. 10-26is a sign of improving relations between the two powers, which have come to realize that they have more to gain by cooperating rather than competing in Afghanistan, particularly in light of the deteriorating security situation. Ties between India and China have long been hostage to mutual suspicion and great-power rivalry, but the joint training is the result of a new approach to Afghanistan that was agreed upon by Chinese President Xi Jinping and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi during their informal summit in Wuhan, China in April 2018.
The change in Indian-Chinese bilateral relations on Afghanistan from a zero-sum dynamic to outcome-driven cooperation is likely to go a long way in helping to secure peace in the country by making it impossible for Pakistan to oppose Indo-Chinese projects to build up the capacity of the Afghan state. If India and China continue to successfully implement joint projects, they should be able to convince other stakeholders, such as the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and NATO, to help stabilize Afghanistan as well.
Security is a natural focus for the two countries, as the situation in Afghanistan continues to deteriorate. According to thelatest reportfrom the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction to the U.S. Congress, the Afghan government controls just over half of the country––55.5 percent of districts––down from 72.5 percent three years earlier. In the face of a sustained Taliban insurgency, both New Delhi and Beijing are giving indications of pragmatic thinking on how to navigate their respective interests by working in coordination. There is a realization in both countries that growing instability in Afghanistan can have a potentially negative spillover effect for the region.
Moreover, there is significant overlap in Chinese and Indian interests as well. Instability in Afghanistan has provided an enabling environment for terrorist networks such as al-Qaeda, ISIS-Khorasan, East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), Lashkar-e-Taiba, the Haqqani Network, and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) to launch attacks across the region. The chaos has allowed human, drug, and weapons smuggling to thrive too. China has additional security concerns related to Islamic militancy among the Uighur population in its far-western province of Xinjiang. Uighur militants have found shelter beyond China’s borders in the past, and in recent years, aided by ISIS, Uighur militancy has re-emerged in Afghanistan, where the Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP) has called for jihad against China, vowing to “shed blood like rivers.”
This has led China to tighten its ties with Kabul and provide counterterrorism assistance, including training and equipment, to the Afghan government. There is speculation that Beijing is in talks with Kabul over the construction of a military base in the mountainous Wakhan Corridor (which links Xinjiang and Afghanistan), where joint patrols of Chinese and Afghan troops have been reported.
As it looks to increase its footprint in Afghanistan, China has also turned to its long-standing military ally and trading partner, Pakistan. The “all-weather” friendship between China and Pakistan and the deep linkages between Pakistan’s security establishment and the Afghan Taliban have obliged Beijing to accommodate the Taliban. Beijing hopes that this will convince the group to cut its ties with ETIM and the IMU, which will help China contain their presence in Afghanistan.
In the past year, China has also directly engaged with the Afghan Taliban as part of its back-channel diplomacy, during which Pakistan is said to haveacted as a broker for the Taliban. This willingness to talk directly to the Taliban rather than just mediate in Afghan-led negotiations shows China’s seriousness in getting involved in Afghan politics. China’s Belt and Road initiative (BRI) is also unlikely to achieve its goals if there is constant conflict in Afghanistan, with blowback effects in Pakistan. In fact, Maulana Samiul Haq, the “Father of the Taliban” who wasrecently assassinated in his Rawalpindihome,had asked China to actas an arbitrator in Afghan peace negotiations.
It would not be entirely incorrect to argue that the road to peace in Afghanistan runs through Rawalpindi in terms of its ability to put pressure on the Afghan Taliban to join the peace process, and no country other than China has real leverage over Pakistan’s security establishment. It waspressure from Beijing that forced the Pakistani militaryto launch a decisive operation in June 2014 in North Waziristan against the Taliban Movement of Pakistan, who were said to be hosting ETIM.
At the same time, China is keen to involve India––a country that has a broadly positive image among Afghans––in its drive to secure its interests and influence in Afghanistan. For its part, by strengthening Afghanistan, India seeks to advance its own national security objectives––eliminating a critical safe haven for terrorists who have attacked India, and gaining access to Central Asian trade and energy resources.
Islamabad’s exaggerated fears that New Delhi wants to trap Pakistan militarily through the Kabul government have led it to oppose Indian involvement in Afghanistan. Pakistan’s military establishment frequently levels allegations that an Indo-Afghan nexus is stoking separatist movements in Pakistan, and there have been many instances of kidnappings and attacks on Indians in Afghanistan aimed at frightening the Indian government into leaving the country.
Despite Pakistan’s objections, Indo-Afghan ties remain robust, as reflected by the activation of the air corridor and the trilateral agreement with Iran over the Chabahar Port. Supporting a more proactive regional role for New Delhi––which would contribute to Afghanistan’s security, stability, and economic development––should be in Beijing’s long-term interest. Joint capacity building and development-oriented projects with China in Afghanistan would be beneficial for India both economically and strategically. Besides protecting Indian nationals working in Afghanistan, such projects might also provide security from terrorist attacks backed by Pakistan’s security establishment.
While Chinese-Indian cooperation on measures like joint diplomatic training is welcome, there remains a fundamental difference on how to resolve the Afghan problem. India would like China to play a more positive role in facilitating direct talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban––the only path to peace and stability in the region. However, while Beijing has leverage with Pakistan’s security establishment, its close relationship with Islamabad has also been a real impediment to forcing it to deliver tangible results in a negotiated political settlement in Afghanistan.
For now, the belief that China’s increasing involvement in Afghanistan might eventually motivate Beijing to put pressure on Pakistan to cut its ties with terrorist groups has yet to be translated into reality. Ultimately, if Chinese-Indian cooperation in Afghanistan is to prove successful, the two countries will need to find common ground on the issue of terrorism.
Photo: INDRANIL MUKHERJEE/AFP/Getty Images
The Middle East Institute (MEI) is an independent, non-partisan, non-for-profit, educational organization. It does not engage in advocacy and its scholars’ opinions are their own. MEI welcomes financial donations, but retains sole editorial control over its work and its publications reflect only the authors’ views. For a listing of MEI donors, please clickhere.
media@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x241
events@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x202
development@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x203
mej@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x205
communications@mei.edu
202-785-1141
Middle East Institute1763 N St. NW, Washington D.C. 20036

© 2018 Middle East Institute All Rights Reserved |Accessibility Policy| Built bySocial Driver.

Title: No title found


Title: Terror tale: How 26-year-old student from Kerala ended up joining ISIS
Listen to Story
The story of 26-year-old Nashidhul Hamzafar proves that the fangs of terrorism, given time and opportunity, can chew up a young mind.
Passionately opposed to the ISIS ideology, he ultimately could not resist the brainwashing by his friend Shihas who was among the 22 Kerala youngsters who travelled to Afghanistan to fight for the terrorist organisation.
A native of Kalpeta in Kerala's Wayanad, Nashidhul (alias Nashid) was a student at a Bengaluru college until a few years ago. This September, he became the first ISIS operative to be caught in Afghanistan and deported to India.
Getting hold of this goldmine of information, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has been able to track Nashid's journey from India to Afghanistan and back.India Today TV has accessed Nashid's interrogation report in which he allegedly admitted going to Afghanistan to join the ISIS, and also unmasked his college friends Shihas, Yahiya and Feroz, who were already working for the terror outfit.
As per Nashid, none of the friends was particularly religious, and he was especially averse to the ISIS ideology -which he felt "was not relevant to the ancient times or the present day scenario".
This disclosure by Nashid surprised the NIA sleuths. "I opposed the ISIS ideology," Nashid reportedly told them. But Nashid's friend and ISIS operative Shihas challenged his viewpoint.
The NIA believes that Shihas played the key role of a mentor, recruiting him to the terror ranks. How it all began The four friends from Kerala met in 2011 in Dayananda Sagar College where Nashid had enrolled for a Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) degree with Marketing as his specialisation.
Yahiya, Firoz and Shihas were his batchmates, who later became infamous as part of the group of 22 who joined ISIS. Yahiya and Shihas were the usual college-going guys and were hardly religious, as per Nashid's confession.
They "drank, consumed ganja, and flaunted a lavish lifestyle", he said. Things changed, however, when they met a 35-yearold Tabligh follower. The students were drawn into "final indoctrination".
For Nashid, however, it was Shihas who changed the game. He inundated him with videos related to Islam and, later, the ISIS. Nashid's initial resistance to ISIS ideology broke down and by 2017 he was deeply into it and eager to learn more.
Shihas had added him to a Whatsapp group 'Message to Kerala'. Scared of the police, Nashid left the group.
However, he was by now trying to indoctrinate others by sharing a PDF file titled 'Victory in the Shadow of the Sword' with them. He also started following the preachings of Zakir Naik, Mufti Maink, Noman Alikhan, and Bilal Phillip.
Shihas had added Nashid to a Whatsapp group called 'Salafi Thrikaripur' and he shared with him the fiery speeches of al-Qaida cleric Anwar al-Awlaki who was killed by the US forces in 2011.
The investigators found Shihas was linked to controversial preacher Zakir Naik's Peace Foundation. He worked for the Peace Education Foundation. Meanwhile, Nashid attended classes at the Islamic Research Foundation (IRF).
In 2016, while Nashid tried his hands at vocational training, he heard of the 22 from Kerala going to Afghanistan. Nashid's parents were suspicious about his sympathy for ISIS and warned him to stay away.
They, however, failed to keep him away from Shihas's influence. On Telegram, a social media app, Shihas soon told Nashid: "Khilafat is right. Don't believe media reports". In May 2017, Nashid found that Firoz too had reached Syria.
He was now desperate to do Hijr. His friend told him to get a visa to Iran first. In October 2017, Nashid reached Oman with the help of his Kerala native friend Habeeb, who was also headed for Afghanistan.
The two used their connections and in 10 days they reached Tehran. Revelation Nashid and Habeeb then approached the Afghan embassy for a visa but were told they will get one only after a no-objection certificate from the Indian embassy. Meanwhile, Habeeb had started getting cold feet about the onward journey.
"Habeeb started contacting his father and he became emotional. I had already told him not to contact anybody at home. But he insisted to go home He took a ticket to go back to Kerala via Dubai on an Emirates flight. I repeatedly warned him that he would be caught by police as soon as he landed in Kerala. But Habeeb took a flight to Kerala the next morning," Nashid told the NIA.
Alsoread |Oxford study reveals Pakistan is 3 times more dangerous to humanity than Syria
Nashid then decided to travel to Afghanistan alone by road via Isfahan. "I dropped Habeeb at Tehran airport and I proceeded further to Isfahan by the same taxi I paid $100 as taxi fare."
He then informed a local source, Uzak (through Telegram) of his arrival at Isfahan bus stand. This man picked him up in a car, but took away his laptop and passport. Next morning, Nashid was dropped at a deportation camp.
Last effort The Iranian deportation officials got suspicious when he tried to convince them that he was a resident of Afghanistan and shifted him to another camp where he was mistaken for a Pakistani. Later, however, he was able to convince an officer in the deportation vehicle that he was an Afghan and he was sent "back to the Afghan camp".
The next day, Nashid was dropped at the bus stand of Nimruz in Afghanistan from where he boarded another bus to Kabul. On reaching Kabul, he called his contact Ashfaq, who sent a man named Abu Ali to meet him.
"Ali took me in a taxi and dropped me at another place near Kabul. No sooner did he drop me, the Afghan security forces came and took me, along with Ali and the taxi driver, into custody." Nashid's ISIS sojourn was over.
The Afghan security seized his mobile phone and questioned him about his identity. "I initially pretended to be an Afghan." But confronted with the photos of Shihas, Ijas, and Ashfaq, Nashid broke down.
After two weeks, Nashid was shifted to an Afghan jail where he was kept for three months, and later at Bagram jail that is operated by the United States.
"They took my biometrics and then locked me in a cell. After three months of custody, I was deported to India".
Also read |Missing Kashmiri student has joined militant ranks, social media posts claim
Watch |India Today goes inside ISIS recruitment room; Beef war turns violent in Madras; more
Published By:Deepali SinghPublished On:Nov 12, 2018--- ENDS ---

Title: Pak-Afghan unfriendly ties - Daily Times
Daily Times
Your right to knowTuesday, September 24, 2024
Letters

Daily Times
November 19, 2018
Sir:Recently, the president of Afghanistan Ashraf Ghani said that Pakistan is in isolation but an isolated Pakistan is not favour of Afghanistan. Moreover, Ashraf Ghani made these explanations during a meeting with local tribal elders of southern Kandahar province on Friday evening.
Reportedly, in a agency news Ghani’s discussed with two important announcement. Among of them, the first one by US forces in Afghanistan he said at least 750 militants joined with the chapter and the Islamic state of Iraq and Syria (ISIS). Furthermore, ISIS Khurasan were killed in a past two half months in Afghanistan. The second statement of Ghani emanated from the north Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) control centre. Apart from this, for Pakistan this situation will create lots of problem.
DILDAR GHANI
Turbat
Published in Daily Times, November 19th2018.




More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category

HomeLead StoriesLatest NewsEditor’s Picks
CultureLife & StyleFeaturedVideos
EditorialsOP-EDSCommentaryAdvertise
CartoonsLettersBlogsPrivacy Policy
ContactCompany’s FinancialsInvestor InformationTerms & Conditions
FacebookTwitterInstagramYoutube
Copyright © 2024 Daily TimesWebsite Developed ByDaily Times Developers

Title: Business News Today: Read Latest Business news, India Business News Live, Share Market & Economy News | The Economic Times
Get only relevant updates on WhatsApp. No Spam.
Learn from the top business gurus.
September 23
India's corporate travel sector, valued at over USD 10.6 billion, is projected to grow at a 10.1% CAGR to USD 20.8 billion by FY30. This gro...
India's electric two-wheeler market is booming, but exports remain minimal. Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari sees potential for India ...
Monthly instalment schemes by jewellers are sustaining gold demand despite high prices. Tanishq, Reliance Jewels, and Senco Gold have seen s...
Vodafone Idea has been directed to pay Rs 50,000 in compensation to a senior citizen for mental harassment due to abrupt disconnection of hi...
Quick commerce is driving growth in grocery shopping, with 31% of Indian shoppers using it for core needs and 39% for top-ups, according to ...
The expo and the conference combined represent the most sought-after event of the Oil & Gas industry that is held every year to bring the in...
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Java Programming with ChatGPT: Learn using Generative AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Basics of Generative AI : Unveiling Tomorrow's Innovations
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Generative AI for Dynamic Java Web Applications with ChatGPT
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Mastering C++ Fundamentals with Generative AI: A Hands-On
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Master in Python Language Quickly Using the ChatGPT Open AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Zero to Hero in Microsoft Excel: Complete Excel guide 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Stock Trading
Market 101: An Insight into Trendlines and Momentum
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Markets 102: Mastering Sentiment Indicators for Swing and Positional Trading
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Market 103: Mastering Trends with RMI and Techno-Funda Insights
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Market 104: Options Trading: Kickstart Your F&O Adventure
By - Saketh R, Founder- QuickAlpha, Full Time Options Trader
Astrology
Vastu Shastra Course
By - Sachenkumar Rai, Vastu Shashtri
Data Science
SQL for Data Science along with Data Analytics and Data Visualization
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Web Development
A Comprehensive ASP.NET Core MVC 6 Project Guide for 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Stock Trading
ROC Made Easy: Master Course for ROC Stock Indicator
By - Souradeep Dey, Equity and Commodity Trader, Trainer
Stock Trading
RSI Made Easy: RSI Trading Course
By - Souradeep Dey, Equity and Commodity Trader, Trainer
Stock Trading
Technical Analysis for Everyone - Technical Analysis Course
By - Abhijit Paul, Technical Research Head, Fund Manager- ICICI Securities
Office Productivity
Mastering Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and 365
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Marketing
Digital marketing - Wordpress Website Development
By - Shraddha Somani, Digital Marketing Trainer, Consultant, Strategiest and Subject Matter expert
Web Development
Mastering Full Stack Development: From Frontend to Backend Excellence
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Finance
Financial Literacy i.e Lets Crack the Billionaire Code
By - CA Rahul Gupta, CA with 10+ years of domain experience, trainer
Stock Trading
Introduction to Technical Analysis & Candlestick Theory
By - Dinesh Nagpal, Full Time Trader, Ichimoku & Trading Psychology Expert
Leadership
Business Storytelling Masterclass
By - Ameen Haque, Founder of Storywallahs
Marketing
Future of Marketing & Branding Masterclass
By - Dr. David Aaker, Professor at Haas School of Business
HR
Human Potential and the Future of Employment
By - Lynda Gratton, Co-chair of the World Economic Forum Council on Work, Wages and Job Creation, Professor of Management Practice
Strategy
ESG and Business Sustainability Strategy
By - Vipul Arora, Partner, ESG & Climate Solutions at Sattva Consulting Author I Speaker I Thought Leader
Stock Trading
Options Trading Course For Beginners
By - Chetan Panchamia, Options Trader
Finance
Financial Reporting and Analytics
By - Dr. C.P. Gupta, Professor: Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi
Stock Trading
Options Scalping Made Easy
By - Sivakumar Jayachandran, Ace Scalper
Stock Trading
Futures Trading Made Easy: Future & Options Trading Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Markets Made Easy
By - elearnmarkets, Financial Education by StockEdge
Stock Trading
Renko Chart Patterns Made Easy
By - Kaushik Akiwatkar, Derivative Trader and Investor
Stock Trading
Options Trading Made Easy: Options Trading Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Investing Made Easy: Beginner's Stock Market Investment Course
By - elearnmarkets, Financial Education by StockEdge
Stock Trading
Macroeconomics Made Easy: Online Certification Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Valuation Made Easy
By - Rounak Gouti, Investment commentary writer
Tuesday, 24 Sep, 2024
Vodafone Idea (Vi) has said it’s now up to the government to come up with a mechanism to offer financial relief to the company, after the Supreme Court’s recent rejection of the telco’s curative petition seeking a re-computation of its adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues.
India’s aspiration to be a $7-trillion economy by the end of the decade can be achieved as a “strong” Prime Minister Narendra Modi rolls out the digital and physical infrastructure that’s drawing multinationals involved in manufacturing advanced products and services, said Jamie Dimon, chairman and CEO, JPMorgan.
This is India’s moment and the country should seize it, Nvidia chief executive Jensen Huang said after a roundtable in New York between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and leading technology industry CEOs. Sundar Pichai, the CEO of Google and its parent Alphabet, said the Prime Minister has a clear vision of the opportunity that artificial intelligence will create, and is challenging top companies to do more in India.
Securing a US student visa is just the beginning for international students. Maintaining it is crucial, as violations like prolonged absence, unauthorized transfer, or fraudulent activities can lead to revocation. Immediate steps include understanding the reason, contacting university services, reapplying or appealing, and seeking legal assistance if necessary.
High net worth Indians are using corporate credit cards for personal expenses during overseas travels to avoid breaching the $250,000 annual limit on foreign remittance. The government may soon implement rules to include international credit card spends under this limit, but distinguishing personal from business expenses remains challenging.
Prodigy Finance has announced a $5,000 scholarship for students pursuing higher education abroad for the Spring 2025 intake. Applications open in September 2024 and close on September 30, 2024. Eligible candidates must be accepted into a Prodigy Finance-supported program and demonstrate academic excellence and community commitment.
Rajinikanth to Mahesh Babu: South Stars Steal The Spotlight at Anant Ambani's Wedding
Explore Goa In The Rains: 10 Must-Do Activities, Places To Visit
Sonakshi Sinha wedding photos out: Actress marries Zaheer Iqbal in civil ceremony
How Four Words from Chiranjeevi Saved Pawan Kalyan's Life
​Mushrooms Can Lower Risk Of A Cancer Diagnosis​​​
What To Eat, What To Avoid During Pregnancy? Follow This ICMR Guide
Want To Live Longer? Watch Your Salt Intake, Advises ICMR
How vegans can get enough protein? What ICMR says
Balakrishna's 5 Controversies. Latest: Actress Anjali Incident
Why These Two Rs 10 Notes Fetched Over Rs 12 Lakhs At Auction?
Magnificent Mango: 5 Beauty Secrets Of This Summer Delight
​Radhika Merchant’s Space Suit Designer For Ambani Pre-Wedding Bash, Has Worked With Jennifer Lopez & Karlie Kloss!​
​Flax Seeds Can Aid In Weight Loss, Improve Gut Heath: Here’s The Best Time To Consume Them​
​NASA Finds 126 Alien Planets! Does This Mean There’s Extraterrestrial Life?​
You Can Enjoy This 5-Day Cruise For Just Rs 5,000. Thanks To Indian Govt
Scandals that destroyed Bollywood celebs' career
​From Vedavid To Vamika, 6 Bollywood Babies With Unique Names​
Blockout 2024: From Taylor Swift To Alia Bhatt, Celebs Are Being Boycotted Online
Gainers & Losers: Vedanta, IEX among 7 stocks in limelight on Tuesday
SIPs in 5 small cap mutual funds multiplied wealth by 100x in 15 years
9 famous street food to try when in Gujarat
8 yoga poses to reduce stubborn waist fat
8 health benefits of having ghee coffee in the morning
9 excellent immunity boosting food for kids
9 chia seeds benefits for skin and hair
These 4 F&O stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest
These 4 stocks closed above VWAP on September 23
These 3 stocks showed RSI Trending up on September 23
Bullish Momentum: These 3 stocks with White Marubozu Pattern on September 23
These 4 stocks closed below VWAP on September 23
At multi-year highs: These 6 stocks witnessed 5-year swing high breakouts
Positive Breakout: ACC among 4 stocks crossed their 200 DMAs
Chia Seeds: Miracle Superfood Or Overhyped Trend
Who Has Chris Martin Dated? A Look At Coldplay Singer's Famous Girlfriends
Gainers & Losers: Vodafone Idea, Indus Towers among 6 stocks in limelight on Monday
7 immunity boosting drinks for weather change
7 high-protein dishes made with chickpeas
7 house plants best suited for bathroom
7 effective morning exercises to lose weight
Gold price up more than 23% in one year; check latest price of gold
7 common mistakes you are doing to lose weight
7 health benefits of drinking haldi doodh everyday at night
7 homemade drinks to boost energy
Tech Mahindra among 3 stocks showing RSI trending up
Cochin Shipyard among 5 stocks with White Marubozu Pattern
These 5 F&O stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest
Finolex Industries and 3 other stocks close below VWAP
Vodafone Idea and 3 other stocks closed above VWAP
Check out these iconic Bonedi Bari Durga Puja in Kolkata
Why your EPF claim may get rejected: Here are 11 reasons
What DonaldTrump promised to accomplish on day one as president
Cancer patients: Tips to go through chemotherapy
Direct Tax Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme 2024: CBDT notifies these rules, forms from October 1, 2024
Oscars 2025: 'Laapataa Ladies' picked as India's entry; how Kiran Rao reacted, top film contenders and other details
India’s first Mpox clade 1 case in Kerala: Symptoms, treatment, risk factors, travel advices and other details
Want to visit the equator? Countries to consider and your budget guide from India
Top 5 flexi-cap funds with up to 28% returns in 3 yrs
Kamala Harris isn't alone! 5 Indian politicians who love to cook and eat
Hot on Web
In Case you missed it
Top Calculators
Top Prime Articles
Top Performing MF
Top Story Listing
Top Commodities
Top Definitions
Top Slideshow
Latest News
Follow us on:

Title: ISIS India: 'Indian recruits of IS using Iran deportation camps for Afghan war' - The Economic Times
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Java Programming with ChatGPT: Learn using Generative AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Basics of Generative AI : Unveiling Tomorrow's Innovations
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Generative AI for Dynamic Java Web Applications with ChatGPT
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Mastering C++ Fundamentals with Generative AI: A Hands-On
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Master in Python Language Quickly Using the ChatGPT Open AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Zero to Hero in Microsoft Excel: Complete Excel guide 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Astrology
Vastu Shastra Course
By - Sachenkumar Rai, Vastu Shashtri
Data Science
SQL for Data Science along with Data Analytics and Data Visualization
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Web Development
A Comprehensive ASP.NET Core MVC 6 Project Guide for 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Mastering Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and 365
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Marketing
Digital marketing - Wordpress Website Development
By - Shraddha Somani, Digital Marketing Trainer, Consultant, Strategiest and Subject Matter expert
Web Development
Mastering Full Stack Development: From Frontend to Backend Excellence
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Finance
Financial Literacy i.e Lets Crack the Billionaire Code
By - CA Rahul Gupta, CA with 10+ years of domain experience, trainer
Leadership
Business Storytelling Masterclass
By - Ameen Haque, Founder of Storywallahs
Marketing
Future of Marketing & Branding Masterclass
By - Dr. David Aaker, Professor at Haas School of Business
HR
Human Potential and the Future of Employment
By - Lynda Gratton, Co-chair of the World Economic Forum Council on Work, Wages and Job Creation, Professor of Management Practice
Strategy
ESG and Business Sustainability Strategy
By - Vipul Arora, Partner, ESG & Climate Solutions at Sattva Consulting Author I Speaker I Thought Leader
Finance
Financial Reporting and Analytics
By - Dr. C.P. Gupta, Professor: Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi
(Catch all theBusiness News,Breaking News,Budget 2024Events andLatest NewsUpdates onThe Economic Times.)
Subscribe toThe Economic Times Primeand read theET ePaperonline.
(Catch all theBusiness News,Breaking News,Budget 2024Events andLatest NewsUpdates onThe Economic Times.)
Subscribe toThe Economic Times Primeand read theET ePaperonline.

Flyers are denied free airport lounge access. The behind the scenes that led to it.
In the new world trade order, is narrative shifting from profits to wages?
Alcobev firms undergo a hangover in Q1 FY25 despite premium push
8 things India should know about Pakistan’s new spy chief
A 98% haircut for SUUTI in Modern Syntex resolution plan raises eyebrows
Can BookMyShow’s Coldplay mess be Zomato’s big ticket opportunity?
US backs India, Japan & Germany for UNSC permanent seats
'Don’t make a mockery of our sentiments...'
A bird may sing in Kabul, but a girl may not: Meryl Streep
PM Modi caps his US trip with a meeting with Zelenskyy
Israel targets Hezbollah missiles buried in civilian buildings
MUDA scam case: K'taka HC's big jolt to CM Sidda
Iran seeks a world free of nuclear weapons: Pezeshkian
K'taka mandates Urdu proficiency for Anganwadi teachers' posts
Hugs, diplomacy, Bonhomie! Highlights from PM Modi’s US visit
Iron Dome Defends Israel from Hezbollah Rockets
Hot on Web
In Case you missed it
Top Searched Companies
Top Calculators
Top Prime Articles
Top Slideshow
Top Commodities
Private Companies
Top Story Listing
Top Definitions
Most Searched IFSC Codes
Latest News
Follow us on:
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Reason for reporting:
Your Reason has been Reported to the admin.
Log In/Connect with:
Will be displayed
Will not be displayed
Will be displayed
Stories you might be interested in

Title: Whole Lotta Suicide Bombin' in Afghanistan Last Night  | WJBO Newsradio 1150 AM & 98.7 FM | Kenny Webster's Pursuit of Happiness
Ken Webster is a talk radio personality and producer from Houston, TX. He started his career in Chicago on the Mancow show and has since worked at...Full Bio
Say, what the heck is happening with that war that never ends, anyway?
A  suicide bomber in Afghanistan targeted anti-Taliban protesters in Kabul  yesterday. At least four people were killed and 22 people were wounded.
All  of this took place shortly after another incident in which insurgents  killed as many as 20 Afghan police officers in the eastern Ghazni  province, making it an extremely violent 24 hour period for the country.
A  spokesperson for the Kabul police says the suicide bomber was on foot  and detonated a vest full of explosives near the protesters.
Hours later ISIS claimed responsibility for the attack.
The Taliban and ISIS have been working together to combat the Afghan military and currently control about half the region.
The  recent Afghanistan election could not take place in the Ghazni province  for security reasons. Voting in that area has been postponed for a  year.
Afghan boys walks at the site of a suicide bomb attack near a Shiite mosque in Kabul on September 29, 2017. Up to six people were killed when a suicide bomber posing as a shepherd blew himself up near a Shiite mosque on September 29, police said, as Muslims prepare to commemorate a key Islamic event. As many as 20 others were wounded in the attack, which happened in the north of the Afghan capital as worshippers were inside Hussainia mosque, one of the biggest Shiite centres in the city, for Friday prayers. / AFP PHOTO / NOORULLAH SHIRZADA (Photo credit should read NOORULLAH SHIRZADA/AFP/Getty Images)
Kenny Webster's Pursuit of Happiness

Title: Whole Lotta Suicide Bombin' in Afghanistan Last Night  | KPRC AM 950 | Kenny Webster's Pursuit of Happiness
Ken Webster is a talk radio personality and producer from Houston, TX. He started his career in Chicago on the Mancow show and has since worked at...Full Bio
Say, what the heck is happening with that war that never ends, anyway?
A  suicide bomber in Afghanistan targeted anti-Taliban protesters in Kabul  yesterday. At least four people were killed and 22 people were wounded.
All  of this took place shortly after another incident in which insurgents  killed as many as 20 Afghan police officers in the eastern Ghazni  province, making it an extremely violent 24 hour period for the country.
A  spokesperson for the Kabul police says the suicide bomber was on foot  and detonated a vest full of explosives near the protesters.
Hours later ISIS claimed responsibility for the attack.
The Taliban and ISIS have been working together to combat the Afghan military and currently control about half the region.
The  recent Afghanistan election could not take place in the Ghazni province  for security reasons. Voting in that area has been postponed for a  year.
Afghan boys walks at the site of a suicide bomb attack near a Shiite mosque in Kabul on September 29, 2017. Up to six people were killed when a suicide bomber posing as a shepherd blew himself up near a Shiite mosque on September 29, police said, as Muslims prepare to commemorate a key Islamic event. As many as 20 others were wounded in the attack, which happened in the north of the Afghan capital as worshippers were inside Hussainia mosque, one of the biggest Shiite centres in the city, for Friday prayers. / AFP PHOTO / NOORULLAH SHIRZADA (Photo credit should read NOORULLAH SHIRZADA/AFP/Getty Images)
Kenny Webster's Pursuit of Happiness

Title: Whole Lotta Suicide Bombin' in Afghanistan Last Night  | NewsRadio 740 KTRH | Kenny Webster's Pursuit of Happiness
Ken Webster is a talk radio personality and producer from Houston, TX. He started his career in Chicago on the Mancow show and has since worked at...Full Bio
Say, what the heck is happening with that war that never ends, anyway?
A  suicide bomber in Afghanistan targeted anti-Taliban protesters in Kabul  yesterday. At least four people were killed and 22 people were wounded.
All  of this took place shortly after another incident in which insurgents  killed as many as 20 Afghan police officers in the eastern Ghazni  province, making it an extremely violent 24 hour period for the country.
A  spokesperson for the Kabul police says the suicide bomber was on foot  and detonated a vest full of explosives near the protesters.
Hours later ISIS claimed responsibility for the attack.
The Taliban and ISIS have been working together to combat the Afghan military and currently control about half the region.
The  recent Afghanistan election could not take place in the Ghazni province  for security reasons. Voting in that area has been postponed for a  year.
Afghan boys walks at the site of a suicide bomb attack near a Shiite mosque in Kabul on September 29, 2017. Up to six people were killed when a suicide bomber posing as a shepherd blew himself up near a Shiite mosque on September 29, police said, as Muslims prepare to commemorate a key Islamic event. As many as 20 others were wounded in the attack, which happened in the north of the Afghan capital as worshippers were inside Hussainia mosque, one of the biggest Shiite centres in the city, for Friday prayers. / AFP PHOTO / NOORULLAH SHIRZADA (Photo credit should read NOORULLAH SHIRZADA/AFP/Getty Images)
Kenny Webster's Pursuit of Happiness

Title: The Afghan quagmire
On the battlefield in Afghanistan, the Taliban has the upper hand. The stalemate will prevail at least till the presidential elections. India would do well to scale up its military assistanceThere is no respite from Taliban assaults in the killing fields ofAfghanistan, from Kandahar in the east to Farah in the west. On the battlefield, the Taliban has the upper hand. The killing, in October, of the most powerful Afghan police chief in Kandahar, Lt Gen Abdul Raziq, also the most formidable political voice in the Taliban heartland, while he was holding a meeting with the new US Field Commander, Gen Scott Miller, who miraculously escaped the attack, reflects the ascendency of the Taliban. That Taliban suicide bombers could penetrate the concentric rings of the US and Afghan security around his stronghold affirms their military superiority.But it also reflects the worst ever security situation in Afghanistan, 17 years after the Taliban was ousted from Kabul. Today, they hold/control and have influence over nearly half the country’s space. The drubbing the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) are taking is unprecedented, averaging daily killings of 62 to 80 ANSF. That they are holding out under such attrition is remarkable.When the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction in 2014 gave his report on the combat capability of ANSF, just before US troops ended their combat mission, it gave ANSF sufficiency in capability to independently the withstand Taliban offensive, but added that it would require US Air support and logistic assistance. It ruled out any strategic collapse. Then, Konduz, a provincial capital, fell in 2015 and since then, district and provincial capitals have been overrun by the Taliban. In the August attack on Ghazni, Pakistan-based terrorists were involved, prompting Afghan President Ashraf Ghani to call it Pakistan’s undeclared war against his country.US President Donald Trump’s warning to Pakistan, repeated several times by US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, and the famous “last chance” missive by Defence Secretary Jim Mattis, demonstrate the failure of the US’ military strategy. It is a miracle that the ANSF is holding out despite desertions. The US focus is, therefore, now on reconciliation and kick-starting the peace process after Taliban supremo Mullah Akhtar Mansour, who let down the US on talks, was droned down in an attack in 2016.The Trump team stepped up the tempo of talks, and for the first time, engaged in direct talks with the Taliban’s Qatar office at Doha at two levels: With US Assistant Deputy Secretary of State, Alice Wells in July; and with Special Envoy of the State Department on Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad, in October. The Taliban rejected outright talks with the Kabul Government, which they call US stooges.The Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace process is only notional despite offering unconditional talks. The Taliban has indicated it will continue talks with the US on terms and conditions for a full and final withdrawal of foreign forces from Afghanistan.Surprisingly, Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) Maj Gen Asif Ghafoor has said that Pakistan does not want foreign forces to leave Afghanistan till peace is restored. This is a sharp contradiction of the Taliban’s stand, and one which Rawalpindi cites to prove that the Taliban is not under its influence, leave alone control.So far, the Americans have called the shots on dialogue with the Taliban. Their diktat has prevailed with Kabul. This  month, Russians jumped in for the second time this year with a conference to kick-start talks.   Kabul had turned down Russia’s earlier attempt to begin a dialogue. Russians are keen that they have a key role in dousing the fires in Afghanistan. China has also dabbled in orchestrating talks  which will inevitably end with too many cooks spoiling the broth.The most visible change is in China’s policy towards Afghanistan which until recently, was circumscribed by four Noes: No boots on the ground; No interference in Afghanistan’s internal affairs; No criticism of the US; and No use of northern distribution network. Policy shift is from development to security.China worries about access from Afghanistan via the Wakhan panhandle to its Xinjiang Province by Uighur (ETIM) militants. For the first time Beijing is training and equipping an Afghan Brigade to be deployed in the mountainous reaches of Wakhan Corridor with joint patrolling in the area. China has signed an MoU with Afghanistan to connect Kabul with the China–Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) as well as some joint Afghanistan-Pakistan energy projects.Kabul is extremely disappointed that the joint India-China project for Afghanistan is merely training diplomats instead of being a big infrastructure project. While Beijing is pound foolish in Pakistan and Sri Lanka, in Kabul, it is seen as being penny wise in holding back its investments.For Trump, his Afghanistan-Pakistan strategy is in tatters. Still, Pompeo hopes that the reset in US-Pakistan relations will lead to Rawalpindi cooperating in acting against Taliban sanctuaries on its soil.According to Afghanistan expert Barnett Rubin, there are limits to the use of US military force against a nuclear-armed Pakistan. He added that as long as the US and Nato troops are deployed in Afghanistan, the Karachi-Kabul lifeline will render Washington hostage to Rawalpindi, especially after the US sanctions against Russia and China, which make the use of the northern distribution network untenable.Pakistan Army Chief, Gen Qamar Bajwa is upset that Trump is encouraging India to acquire strategic depth in Afghanistan at Pakistan’s cost. This had never happened before because the US always looked at Afghanistan through Pakistan’s prism.The  prevailing theory is that the US will not leave Afghanistan in order to monitor activities of Iran, Pakistan, Russia and China from its strategic bases in Afghanistan. The stalemate on the ground in which the Taliban has a clear upper hand, will prevail not the least till after presidential elections in Afghanistan in April 2019. The campaigning season will soon come to a close but already, the Taliban has inflicted fatal damage on ANSF and the reputation of US forces in preventing  wholesale attacks across the country.India has focussed so far on economic assistance and capacity-building with an investment of two billion dollar, coupled with a commitment to another one billion dollar. This has earned it considerable goodwill and popularity in Kabul but not the scale of influence that Pakistan enjoys with contiguous borders. It is time that New Delhi scales up its military assistance, including supply of military hardware and more specialised training. India will not put boots on the ground — on which Trump queried Modi — but it can forward deploy at its Aynee Air base in Tajikistan, a full-fledged training centre as well as a field hospital. Both are urgently needed by the ANSF with its back to the wall.(The writer is a retired Major General of the Indian Army and founder member of the Defence Planning Staff, currently the revamped Integrated Defence Staff)
On the battlefield in Afghanistan, the Taliban has the upper hand. The stalemate will prevail at least till the presidential elections. India would do well to scale up its military assistance
There is no respite from Taliban assaults in the killing fields ofAfghanistan, from Kandahar in the east to Farah in the west. On the battlefield, the Taliban has the upper hand. The killing, in October, of the most powerful Afghan police chief in Kandahar, Lt Gen Abdul Raziq, also the most formidable political voice in the Taliban heartland, while he was holding a meeting with the new US Field Commander, Gen Scott Miller, who miraculously escaped the attack, reflects the ascendency of the Taliban. That Taliban suicide bombers could penetrate the concentric rings of the US and Afghan security around his stronghold affirms their military superiority.
But it also reflects the worst ever security situation in Afghanistan, 17 years after the Taliban was ousted from Kabul. Today, they hold/control and have influence over nearly half the country’s space. The drubbing the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) are taking is unprecedented, averaging daily killings of 62 to 80 ANSF. That they are holding out under such attrition is remarkable.
When the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction in 2014 gave his report on the combat capability of ANSF, just before US troops ended their combat mission, it gave ANSF sufficiency in capability to independently the withstand Taliban offensive, but added that it would require US Air support and logistic assistance. It ruled out any strategic collapse. Then, Konduz, a provincial capital, fell in 2015 and since then, district and provincial capitals have been overrun by the Taliban. In the August attack on Ghazni, Pakistan-based terrorists were involved, prompting Afghan President Ashraf Ghani to call it Pakistan’s undeclared war against his country.
US President Donald Trump’s warning to Pakistan, repeated several times by US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, and the famous “last chance” missive by Defence Secretary Jim Mattis, demonstrate the failure of the US’ military strategy. It is a miracle that the ANSF is holding out despite desertions. The US focus is, therefore, now on reconciliation and kick-starting the peace process after Taliban supremo Mullah Akhtar Mansour, who let down the US on talks, was droned down in an attack in 2016.
The Trump team stepped up the tempo of talks, and for the first time, engaged in direct talks with the Taliban’s Qatar office at Doha at two levels: With US Assistant Deputy Secretary of State, Alice Wells in July; and with Special Envoy of the State Department on Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad, in October. The Taliban rejected outright talks with the Kabul Government, which they call US stooges.
The Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace process is only notional despite offering unconditional talks. The Taliban has indicated it will continue talks with the US on terms and conditions for a full and final withdrawal of foreign forces from Afghanistan.
Surprisingly, Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) Maj Gen Asif Ghafoor has said that Pakistan does not want foreign forces to leave Afghanistan till peace is restored. This is a sharp contradiction of the Taliban’s stand, and one which Rawalpindi cites to prove that the Taliban is not under its influence, leave alone control.
So far, the Americans have called the shots on dialogue with the Taliban. Their diktat has prevailed with Kabul. This  month, Russians jumped in for the second time this year with a conference to kick-start talks.   Kabul had turned down Russia’s earlier attempt to begin a dialogue. Russians are keen that they have a key role in dousing the fires in Afghanistan. China has also dabbled in orchestrating talks  which will inevitably end with too many cooks spoiling the broth.
The most visible change is in China’s policy towards Afghanistan which until recently, was circumscribed by four Noes: No boots on the ground; No interference in Afghanistan’s internal affairs; No criticism of the US; and No use of northern distribution network. Policy shift is from development to security.
China worries about access from Afghanistan via the Wakhan panhandle to its Xinjiang Province by Uighur (ETIM) militants. For the first time Beijing is training and equipping an Afghan Brigade to be deployed in the mountainous reaches of Wakhan Corridor with joint patrolling in the area. China has signed an MoU with Afghanistan to connect Kabul with the China–Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) as well as some joint Afghanistan-Pakistan energy projects.
Kabul is extremely disappointed that the joint India-China project for Afghanistan is merely training diplomats instead of being a big infrastructure project. While Beijing is pound foolish in Pakistan and Sri Lanka, in Kabul, it is seen as being penny wise in holding back its investments.
For Trump, his Afghanistan-Pakistan strategy is in tatters. Still, Pompeo hopes that the reset in US-Pakistan relations will lead to Rawalpindi cooperating in acting against Taliban sanctuaries on its soil.
According to Afghanistan expert Barnett Rubin, there are limits to the use of US military force against a nuclear-armed Pakistan. He added that as long as the US and Nato troops are deployed in Afghanistan, the Karachi-Kabul lifeline will render Washington hostage to Rawalpindi, especially after the US sanctions against Russia and China, which make the use of the northern distribution network untenable.
Pakistan Army Chief, Gen Qamar Bajwa is upset that Trump is encouraging India to acquire strategic depth in Afghanistan at Pakistan’s cost. This had never happened before because the US always looked at Afghanistan through Pakistan’s prism.
The  prevailing theory is that the US will not leave Afghanistan in order to monitor activities of Iran, Pakistan, Russia and China from its strategic bases in Afghanistan. The stalemate on the ground in which the Taliban has a clear upper hand, will prevail not the least till after presidential elections in Afghanistan in April 2019. The campaigning season will soon come to a close but already, the Taliban has inflicted fatal damage on ANSF and the reputation of US forces in preventing  wholesale attacks across the country.
India has focussed so far on economic assistance and capacity-building with an investment of two billion dollar, coupled with a commitment to another one billion dollar. This has earned it considerable goodwill and popularity in Kabul but not the scale of influence that Pakistan enjoys with contiguous borders. It is time that New Delhi scales up its military assistance, including supply of military hardware and more specialised training. India will not put boots on the ground — on which Trump queried Modi — but it can forward deploy at its Aynee Air base in Tajikistan, a full-fledged training centre as well as a field hospital. Both are urgently needed by the ANSF with its back to the wall.
(The writer is a retired Major General of the Indian Army and founder member of the Defence Planning Staff, currently the revamped Integrated Defence Staff)


Title: The Situation In Afghanistan Post-2014 – OpEd – Eurasia Review
A Journal of Analysis and News

Taliban. Photo Credit: Tasnim News Agency.
ByUzair Shagiwal *
It has been two decades; Afghanistan is suffering from deep political, economic, and security crises. Since, the American invasion in 2001, there has been a tremendous upheaval on the political leadership of Afghanistan because of the power struggle among the Afghan political leaders. So far, the invasion has cost 100 billion of dollars spent by America along with the loss of more than tens of thousands of lives including Afghan army force and civilians, still the Taliban are not only undefeated but they seem much stronger than before.
The security situation of Afghanistan has been very tragic in the recent year because the civilian casualties are at peak since 2002.Taliban’s are in much stronger position than before and are controlling around fifty-nine districts, which is approximately 14.5 percent area of Afghanistan while afghan government only control 56.3 percent and the remaining 29 percent is contested.
Washington and Kabul signed the bilateral security agreement (BSA) in 2014under which ten thousand U.S troops will remain in Afghanistan for training and advisory purposes. Kabul also signed similar agreement with North Atlantic treaty organization (NATO) on September 30 under which Afghanistan will allow 4,000-5,000 NATO troops to remain in Afghanistan that makes up the total number of foreign forces up to 15,000. Under these agreements the U.S and NATO forces will improve the ability of Afghan national army to counter the internal and external threats to the sovereignty of Afghanistan.
In the recent years, Afghanistan has been coping with serious security challenges because the resurgent groups have become much stronger than before in terms of territorial control.The Taliban began regrouping and attacking and capturing major districts of Afghanistan by ambushing ANSF and civilians. Because of this kind of surprise lethal attacks, the civilian casualties have escalated alongside the destruction property facing displacement from their own villages. Likewise, since BSA Taliban’s have increased the attacks and remained successful in periodic large-scale attacks across Afghanistan especially the capital Kabul was their primary target. Between 2016 and May 2017, the number of large-scale attacks on ANSF, NATO, U.S forces and civilians were carried out by the Taliban across different parts of Afghanistan, the major high scale attacks were carried out in Kabul.
According to a US Defense Ministry report, 18 major attacks alone were carried out in Kabul resulting in huge civilian casualties, including the attack on the American university of Afghanistan and the ministry of defense. Kabul diplomatic quarter was targeted by a truck bomb on 21 April 2017, in this attack approximately 90 people lost their lives and more than 400 were injured.
According to National Directorate of Security, these large-scale attacks on Capital were planned and carried out by Haqqani Network.
On the contrary, the same pattern of major attack was carried out by the Taliban on ANSF, when a suicide bomber dressed as a local police officer, detonated a bomb inside the Balkh military base near to Mazar e Sharif that resulted in 144 immediate deaths, both ANSF and Civilians were among casualties. The Taliban’s operation in spring 2017, the so-called Spring offensive, brought the unexpectable level of violence to Afghanistan, as noted in reports approximately 6252 security incidents befell between the March and May of 2017. According to reports, the level of violence has increased by 2 percent as compared to 2016. Moreover, the strategic targets in the Taliban’s focus are some major areas and districts of the Afghanistan, such as Badakhshan, Baghlan, Farah, Faryab, Helmand, Kunar, and Laghman.
And, 2018 has seen a further increase in violence across Afghanistan as the Taliban has remained successful in capturing more territories in Afghanistan by tactically targeting ANSF bases across the country. Kabul was bombed in June 2018 that killed more than 100 people and injured more than 300 people. The first six month of 2018 has seen a lot of civilian casualties according to UN report, that recorded 692civilian deaths and 3,430 injuries. Now, the Taliban controls major territories in nearly every province of Afghanistan including the capital of Farah province and most of the Ghazni province, which were captured in May and August 2018, simultaneously.
As we see the rampant attacks of Taliban on ANSF and civilians for territorial gain that is making the security situation of Afghanistan much complicated for the ANSF and USA. What US Defense Secretary James Mattis stated in his recent testimony in the united state senate in June 2017 that, “US and its coalition forces were not winning in Afghanistan”—which means the security situation in Afghanistan is going to become much tense in the years to come.
*Uzair Shagiwalis from Nangarhar, Afghanistan and a student of International Relations at International Islamic University, with a keen interest in writing on history and geopolitics.
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Name*
Email*
Website

What is the MENA region? MENA is the acronym for “Middle East and North Africa”, regularly used in academic and
This article is just plain wrong! The author may have a professorship, but his academic rigor is very poor. To…
there are legitimate reasons for USA to dissolve. the country is divided and bankrupt whoever wins the next election will…
THIS IS ONE OF THE WORSE PIECES EVER POSTED ON EURASIA REVIEW, MOST RACIST, ANTI-SEMITIC ANTI-UKRAINIAN RANT. WHY DID ER…
This is either the most self-deceiving rose-tinted spectacles view of Russia I have ever read, or a despicable set of…
It is wishful thinking to expect Gwadar Port to be a game changer for Pakistan. It has not materialized so…

Title: Afghanistan: Amid progress talks in Geneva, military use of schools put thousands of children at risk | NRC
The Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC) is an independent humanitarian organisation helping people forced to flee. We protect displaced people and support them as they build a new future.
Never before have more people been forced to leave their homes and everything they own behind. Support our work to make sure they get the help they need.
We started our relief efforts after World War Two. Today, we work in both new and protracted crises across 40 countries, where we help save lives and rebuild futures.
NRC works to protect the rights of displaced people during crisis. We specialise in six areas: food security, education, shelter, legal assistance, protection from violence, and water, sanitation and hygiene.
NORCAP works to better protect and empower people affected by crises and climate change. We collaborate with partners on finding solutions to meet the needs of people at risk.
Get the latest news from our work in the field, interviews, opinions and campaigns.
The Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC) is an independent humanitarian organisation helping people forced to flee. We protect displaced people and support them as they build a new future.
Never before have more people been forced to leave their homes and everything they own behind. Support our work to make sure they get the help they need.
We started our relief efforts after World War Two. Today, we work in both new and protracted crises across 40 countries, where we help save lives and rebuild futures.
NRC works to protect the rights of displaced people during crisis. We specialise in six areas: food security, education, shelter, legal assistance, protection from violence, and water, sanitation and hygiene.
NORCAP works to better protect and empower people affected by crises and climate change. We collaborate with partners on finding solutions to meet the needs of people at risk.
Get the latest news from our work in the field, interviews, opinions and campaigns.
Since April, at least ten schools have been damaged and occupied by military forces in Afghanistan’s Faryab province. Nine of which were occupied by Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) and one by armed opposition groups.
One of the schools affected, was supported by NRC who provide additional classes to students outside of the school as part of an accelerated learning programme and had 1199 students attending classes with 18 female teachers before the occupation.
“All of these children have had their right to education brutally taken away. We risk losing a whole generation if parties to the conflict, especially the Afghan government as a signatory to the 2015 Oslo Safe Schools Declaration, do not ensure that schools are no longer used for military purposes. All parties must respect the safety and protection of education and the neutrality and independence of humanitarian organisations supporting education in Afghanistan,” said William Carter, NRC's Head of Programme in Afghanistan.
Although most of the ten schools have reopened since they were occupied, children and youth are not turning up to classes due to the unstable security situation. “Whilst the ANSF left the school in October it has remained closed for over a month, as the building has been badly damaged and the security situation in the area remains tense. The families of students are too frightened to send their children back to school,” Amir Khan, NRC’s field office coordinator in Faryab said.
As highlighted in the recent ‘Attack on Education in Afghanistan’ report by the Global Coalition to Protect Education from Attack, a total of 3.7 million school aged children - of these 2.2 million girls - are out of school across Afghanistan. According to the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, 653 children have been killed and a further 1,483 injured due to the ongoing conflict so far this year.
This week governments are meeting in Geneva during the Geneva Conference on Afghanistan to discuss the political and developmental progress in the country.
“Many partners present at the conference seem to be talking the situation in Afghanistan up by presenting a positive narrative about the country’s progress. However, for our staff working on the ground this portrayal is quite far removed from the reality where Afghan women, men and children continue to be attacked, displaced and refused their rights, said Carter from Geneva where he is attending the conference.
“The international community must work with the Afghan government to ensure that the Guidelines for protecting schools and universities from military use during armed conflict are fully understood and implemented. In the meantime, the international community should ensure that sufficient resources are available to provide alternative education so that children prevented from attending school due to military occupation and fear of the ongoing conflict are not left behind”.

Prinsens gate 20152 OsloNorway
+47 23 10 98 00nrc@nrc.no
+47 90 56 23 29media@nrc.no
Phone: +47 800 33 503SMS: +47 594 48 256
fundraising@nrc.no
Over 90 per cent of our global revenue goes directly to fulfil our purpose.

Title: Afghanistan: Amid progress talks in Geneva, military use of schools put thousands of children at risk - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
While international governments meet in Geneva this week to discuss progress and development in Afghanistan, thousands of children remain at risk and out of school due to the ongoing conflict.
Since April, at least ten schools have been damaged and occupied by military forces in Afghanistan's Faryab province. Nine of which were occupied by Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) and one by armed opposition groups.
One of the schools affected, was supported by NRC who provide additional classes to students outside of the school as part of an accelerated learning programme and had 1199 students attending classes with 18 female teachers before the occupation.
"All of these children have had their right to education brutally taken away. We risk losing a whole generation if parties to the conflict, especially the Afghan government as a signatory to the 2015 Oslo Safe Schools Declaration, do not ensure that schools are no longer used for military purposes. All parties must respect the safety and protection of education and the neutrality and independence of humanitarian organisations supporting education in Afghanistan," said William Carter, NRC's Head of Programme in Afghanistan.
Although most of the ten schools have reopened since they were occupied, children and youth are not turning up to classes due to the unstable security situation. "Whilst the ANSF left the school in October it has remained closed for over a month, as the building has been badly damaged and the security situation in the area remains tense. The families of students are too frightened to send their children back to school," Amir Khan, NRC's field office coordinator in Faryab said.
As highlighted in the recentAttack on Education in Afghanistanreport by the Global Coalition to Protect Education from Attack, a total of 3.7 million school aged children - of these 2.2 million girls - are out of school across Afghanistan. According to the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, 653 children have been killed and a further 1,483 injured due to the ongoing conflict so far this year.
This week governments are meeting in Geneva during the Geneva Conference on Afghanistan to discuss the political and developmental progress in the country.
"Many partners present at the conference seem to be talking the situation in Afghanistan up by presenting a positive narrative about the country's progress.However, for our staff working on the ground this portrayal is quite far removed from the reality where Afghan women, men and children continue to be attacked, displaced and refused their rights, said Carter from Geneva where he is attending the conference.
"The international community must work with the Afghan government to ensure that the Guidelines for protecting schools and universities from military use during armed conflict are fully understood and implemented. In the meantime, the international community should ensure that sufficient resources are available to provide alternative education so that children prevented from attending school due to military occupation and fear of the ongoing conflict are not left behind".
Note to editors:
For more information, please contact:
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Officials: Utah National Guard member killed in Afghanistan in suspected 'insider attack' | Daily Mail Online
ByAssociated PressandReutersandDailymail.com Reporter
Published:07:22 EDT, 3 November 2018|Updated:01:57 EDT, 4 November 2018

2
Viewcomments

The mayor of a Utah town who was deployed in Afghanistan as a member of the state’s National Guard has been killed in an ‘insider attack’, the military said.
Brent Taylor, the mayor of North Ogden, was killed in an attack perpetrated by a member of the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces in the capital city of Kabul.
The ANSF has been fighting alongside the United States and other Western countries in their effort to assert government control over Afghanistan.
Friends of the Taylor family confirmed his death, according toThe Salt Lake Tribune. He is survived by his wife, Jennie, and their seven children.
Brent Taylor, the mayor of North Ogden, was killed in an attack perpetrated by a member of the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces in the capital city of Kabul, the Utah National Guard said
He was sent to Afghanistan in January as part of President Donald Trump's troop increase. Taylor is seen in Afghanistan in a photo he posted to Facebook on October 17
Family friends confirmed Taylor's death. Officials say another U.S. service member is being treated for wounds sustained in the attack in Kabul on Saturday. Taylor is seen with one of his sons on a fishing trip in August
He is survived by his wife, Jennie, and their seven children. This photo was posted on Facebook this past September
Taylor wrote on his Facebook page on September 18: 'My rock star wife has been superwoman through birthing and raising seven children, and through four deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan and over five total years of separation for military service.'
Officials say another U.S. service member is being treated for wounds sustained in the attack in Kabul on Saturday.
A statement from a spokeswoman for the NATO-led Operation Resolute Support says the attacker was a member of the Afghan security forces and that initial reports indicate the assailant was immediately killed by other Afghan forces.
'My heart breaks for the loss and sacrifice of our Soldier, particularly for the family,' said adjutant general Maj. Gen. Jefferson S. Burton.
'I wish them all the comfort and courage to face the difficult days ahead.'
Utah's lieutenant governor, Spencer Cox, wrote on Facebook: 'We lost a genuine hero and one of the best people in our state. We must rally around his sweet family.'
Taylor was part of an advisory team tasked with training Afghan commandos.
'My rock star wife has been superwoman through birthing and raising seven children, and through four deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan and over five total years of separation for military service,' Taylor wrote on his Facebook page on September 18
Utah's lieutenant governor, Spencer Cox, wrote on Facebook: 'We lost a genuine hero and one of the best people in our state. We must rally around his sweet family'
'I am proud of the brave Afghan and US soldiers I serve with,' Taylor wrote on Facebook. The image above was posted last week. It shows Taylor with Lieutenant Kefayatullah, an Afghan serviceman who was killed by the Taliban
He was sent to Afghanistan in January as part of President Donald Trump's troop increase.
His most recent Facebook post was about the recent elections in Afghanistan.
'The strong turnout, despite the attacks and challenges, was a success for the long-suffering people of Afghanistan and for the cause of human freedom,' he wrote last week.
'I am proud of the brave Afghan and US soldiers I serve with.
'Many American, NATO allies, and Afghan troops have died to make moments like this possible; for example, my dear friend Lieutenant Kefayatullah who was killed fighting the Taliban the day before voting began.️
'As the USA gets ready to vote in our own election next week, I hope everyone back home exercises their precious right to vote.
The ANSF has been fighting alongside the United States and other Western countries in their effort to assert government control over Afghanistan. The image above shows members of the Afghan National Army marching in Herat province on October 3
'And that whether the Republicans or the Democrats win, that we all remember that we have far more as Americans that unites us than divides us.
'"United we stand, divided we fall." God Bless America.'
AGoFundMecampaign has been started to help his widow and their children.
Defense Secretary James Mattis said in September that training and vetting of Afghan forces was being stepped up to minimize insider attacks and some training and advisory operations have been scaled back while security is assessed.
Last month, the NATO commander in Afghanistan, General Scott Miller, escaped unhurt when the bodyguard of a provincial governor opened fire on a group of U.S. and Afghan officials in the southern province of Kandahar.
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:40Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Our Man in Kabul: America and the Next President of Afghanistan - Fair Observer
We rely on your support for our independence, diversity and quality.

This article saved into your bookmarks. Click here to view your bookmarks.
What does Washington hope for from Afghanistan's next leader?
After 13 long years,over a trilliondollars spent and thousands of lost lives, the United States is finally bowing out of Afghanistan. To outsiders, Afghanistan might still seem like a fragile state racked by continuous conflict, teetering on the edge of collapse.
However,muchhas been achievedsince the US and its allies drove the Taliban from Kabul in 2001. Health indicators remain grim, but they have made leaps since aid began flowing in over a decade ago. Women, once repressed under the brutal Taliban regime, have been empowered to seek education and participate in civic life. Desperately needed infrastructure and relatively stable democratic institutions have been constructed to serve the Afghan people. Prior to the US-led invasion, literacy rates were among the lowest in the world, but Afghanistan is now educating a generation of youth who know the perils of war all too well. Sporadic violence continues, but Afghan security services have begun assuming the task of securing the country from their Western allies. And on April 5, Afghans will be able to exercise their democratic rights when they head to the polls to select their next president.
Karzai's On His Way Out
With the majority of American personnel set to leave in the coming months, many analysts fear Afghanistan will descend into another brutal civil war, and all the investments of the international community will be for naught. Officials in Washington are paying close attention to who will replace Hamid Karzai as Afghanistan's next president, in the country's first democratic transfer of power. Karzai will not be able to run again due to term limits.
Over the past decade, the US has had a querulous relationship with the cantankerous Karzai, who has enjoyed flouting America in public while requesting more aid behind the scenes. The White House is now looking for a partner, if there is one among the candidates, who is willing to cooperate and continue to build upon the delicate progress that has been made thus far.
Afghanistan's electoral body and their Western partners have had 18 months to work to avoid the widespread fraud that marred the 2009 elections. The Taliban havethreatened violenceagainst those who participate in the vote, but with all the preparation that has gone into the upcoming election, it should nevertheless serve as Afghanistan's freest and fairest to date.
The first round of voting takes place on April 5. There are eight candidates on the ballot, but if none of them receive above 50% of the vote — something that is likely — a two-man run-off will be held on May 28, opening the door for manipulation, back-room dealing, intimidation, violence and a perilous power vacuum.
The question is, what does Washington hope for from Afghanistan's next leader?
Washington's Priority
On the list of American priorities for Afghanistan, nothing trumps the Bilateral Security Agreement (BSA). This pact would allow a small contingent of US troops, up to 10,000, to remain on Afghan soil to counter a resurgent Taliban and assist in military support and the continued development of combat readiness of the325,000–strongAfghanistan National Security Force (ANSF).
Without the BSA, the Obama administration has reiterated that all its combat forces will depart Afghanistan by the end of 2014. The ANSF receives most of its funding from the US and its NATO allies.
If the BSA is not in place, the departure of American forces will also likely coincide with the withdrawal of vital financial assistance necessary for Kabul to maintain its security forces. It is feared that the abrupt withdrawal of American support could lead to a rise in desertions from the Afghan Army, which is already plagued by a desertion rate that forces them to enlist50,000new menevery year.
Less widely reported is the fact that the BSA would allow Washington to continue its controversial drone program from bases in the country to counter Islamist terrorism along the porous border between Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Karzai has refused to sign the BSA even though the measure was widely supported by the Loya Jirga, Afghanistan's assembly of tribal elders. The Afghan president claims his intransigence is due to the refusal of the US to end controversial night raids or suspend its jurisdiction over military crimes committed on Afghan soil. Karzai wascharacteristicallyopaquewhen he demanded peace as a condition for his agreement to the BSA, but chances are he is hedging his bet against the uncertain future of his country.
All three leading presidential candidates have vowed to sign the agreement that would bolster Afghanistan's fragile stability and reassure the international community that the country's future is not as bleak as it seems. The current leading contender for the presidency is Abdullah Abdullah, who was once Karzai's foreign minister and was the runner-up in the 2009 election.
Other top contenders include Zalmai Rassoul, who is close to the Karzai family but has not been officially endorsed by the president himself, and the Western-educated technocrat, Ashraf Ghani.
Recent pollinghas shown Ghani and Abdullah as the two leading candidates, which would indicate that if either did poorly it may be due to substantial irregularities in the voting process.
Whoever assumes the presidency will have to work closely with their US counterparts who have invested so much in creating a stable Afghanistan. What Washington wants is someone who is more open to cooperation than the obstinate Karzai was. It is no secret thatthe White House hopesGhani wins. A former finance minister who once worked at the World Bank, Ghani is the most reform-minded of the candidates. In reality, the White House is probably more concerned about who doesn't win — someone who will foment ethnic tensions.
Tribal Patterns
One of the biggest issues facing Afghan voters is one of tribal loyalty. Afghanistan is a fractious country made up of avariety of ethnic groups(42% Pashtun, 27% Tajik, 9% Hazara, 9% Uzbek, and 13% other) that fall down the taxonomic rung into tribal loyalties. It doesn't help that19%of the country's populationare also Shi'a Muslim, who often clash with the Sunni majority.
In a country divided by so many loyalties, voting among the electorate usually falls along ethnic lines. Ethnic tensions and extreme variants of Islam (as practiced by the Taliban) have never made the best ingredients for democratic success. However, Afghans have seen the destruction civil war can cause when dialogue is abandoned in favor of violence.
Ghani and Rassoul are both ethnic Pashtuns, something that could cause them to split the vote among Pashtuns — the largest and most powerful of Afghanistan's ethnic groups. After dropping out of the contest, Karzai's brother endorsed Rassoul, who is seen to be the incumbent president's favored candidate.
The current front-runner, Abdullah, is of mixed Pashtun-Tajik background, which could allow him to draw broad support from Afghanistan's two largest ethnic groups. However, it might also cost him votes among ethnic Pashtuns in the south of the country who view him as Tajik, especially if he is faced off against a Pashtun candidate in a run-off election. Abdullah ran against President Karzai in a run-off in 2009, but withdrew in protest after allegations of fraud surfaced.
One quirk of the Afghan electoral process is that each presidential candidate runs with two vice-presidents, usually of a different ethnicity in order to maximize appeal. Most of the candidates have done themselves justice by suitably diversifying their tickets.
Ghani has allied himself with former Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum, an ethnic Uzbek, who as a running-mate could draw support from his base in the north, while Rassoul has added Habiba Sarobi, the first female vice-presidential candidate in Afghanistan's history and an ethnic Hazara. Not to be outdone, Abdullah has added former strongman and ethnic Hazara Mohammad Mohaqiq to his ticket.
The threat of ballot stuffing and rampant fraud that hindered the 2009 elections remains potent. It is feared that Karzai will somehow manipulate the results in his favor to maintain the influence and safety he and his relatives have come to enjoy during his time as president. He also wants to see that his legacy, however tarnished, endures.
In Afghanistan, with billions of dollars of foreign aid still pouring in, graft has become a way of life. Many powerful figures in Afghanistan will be eager to endorse and support, even violently, the candidate who is most willing to protect their interests. This will play a powerful role in a country still racked by tribalism and cause grief to the donors who are sick of watching their money end up in the hands of corrupt officials or warlords.
It is believed that intimidation by the Taliban will causeat least10%of polling stations to shut. This is on top of thefactthat21 million voter cardshave been distributed beyond the estimated 13.5 million eligible voters.
Additionally, the shadow of Pakistan's intelligence service, the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), continues to loom large. Many Afghans believe Pakistan is bankrolling the Taliban to maintain influence over their crippled homeland.
Add tribalism, corruption, sectarianism, a lucrative drug-trade, an ongoing insurgency, plus foreign influence, and you have an Afghan election.
The Independent Election Commission (IEC) will have its hands full when citizens go to the polls.Approximately200,000Afghan personnelwill be deployed to protect the election, in what is the largest military operation in the country since the initial invasion back in 2001, to allow Afghans the choice of who will lead their country at this critical juncture in its rocky history.
The View from Washington
What Washington wants more than anything is an independent Afghanistan that is able to grow and develop into a modern democratic country peacefully. To do this, Afghanistan requires stability and the ability of the central government to effectively counter both the Taliban and terrorist elements alike.
The US fears abandoning its nation-building efforts too early and wasting what precious little it has gained. The mission it set out to accomplish over a decade ago is nowhere near being accomplished.
At this point, America and its allies realize how far Afghanistan is from successful sustainability. Continued American military presence through the BSA would provide the best chance of maintaining the tenuous status quo long enough to train and finance the ANSF to the level necessary to ensure the survival of the state. Without an American presence, there is the all-too-real possibility that the Taliban could make enough gains to the point where Afghanistan descends into civil war once again.
It may be a hard pill to swallow in Washington, but Afghanistan will soon be out of its hands. Whoever assumes the presidential post will become a necessary ally of the White House. Whether he is their man in Kabul or not, the task ahead is herculean — but success, however remote, is still achievable.
The views expressed in this article are the author's own and do not necessarily reflect Fair Observer’s editorial policy.
Image: Copyright ©Shutterstock. All Rights Reserved
You must belogged into post a comment.
We rely on your support for our independence, diversity and quality.
For more than 10 years, Fair Observer has been free, fair and independent. No billionaire
							owns us, no advertisers control us. We are a reader-supported nonprofit. Unlike many other
							publications, we keep our content free for readers regardless of where they live or whether
							they can afford to pay. We have no paywalls and no ads.
In the post-truth era of fake news, echo chambers and filter bubbles, we publish a plurality
							of perspectives from around the world. Anyone can publish with us, but everyone goes through
							a rigorous editorial process. So, you get fact-checked, well-reasoned content instead of
							noise.
We publish 2,500+ voices from 90+ countries. We also conduct education and training programs
							on subjects ranging from digital media and journalism to writing and critical thinking. This
							doesn’t come cheap. Servers, editors, trainers and web developers cost
							money.Please consider supporting us on a regular basis as a recurring donor or a
								sustaining member.
We rely on your support for our independence, diversity and quality.
Per Month
Unique Insights from 2,500+ Contributors in 90+ Countries

New to Fair Observer? Register Now
New to Fair Observer? Register Now
We rely on your support for our independence, diversity and quality.

*Indicates required field






Fair Observer is a 501(c)(3) independent nonprofit. We are not owned by billionaires or controlled by
                    advertisers. We publish nearly 3,000 authors from over 90 countries after fact-checking and editing each
                    piece. We do not have a paywall and anyone can read us for free. With your vital donations, we can
                    continue
                    to do our work.Please make a recurring (or even one-time) donation today.Even $1 goes a long waybecause
                    a
                    million donors
                    like you mean one million dollars. Thank you for keeping us independent, free and fair.
Unique Insights from 2,500+ Contributors in 90+ Countries
Total Views: 265

Title: German Taliban fighter on trial in Dusseldorf – DW – 11/29/2018
German national Thomas K. joined the Taliban and was planning on blowing up a US military convoy in Afghanistan. Now he is on trial in Dusseldorf. DW's Esther Felden traces his story.
His gaze wanders to the other side of the glass screen as soon as he enters the courtroom in the higher regional court in the western German city of Dusseldorf.
The tall, slim man with the short blond hair and the trimmed beard seems a little lost. Then, as his mother, aunts and sisters arrive to support him, his relief is palpable. He raises his hand to greet them, a slight smile on his face.
Then Thomas K. sits down, shoulders hanging. He seems nervous and tense. When Judge Lutz Bachler addresses him at the opening of the trial, he stumbles over his words several times. Could this man, whose body language shows so much uncertainty, really be acold-blooded Taliban bomber?
The prosecution is convinced that he is. The trial, which started in mid-October, does not take place in the court's main building, but a few kilometers away in the sealed-off high-security wing, a massive concrete block with a heliport on the rooftop. It is where terror suspects face their judges.Mentally ill or guilty?
Thomas K. is accused of membership in a foreign terrorist organization, a violation of Germany's ' War Weapons Control Act', as well as attempted murder. When he first spoke, the defendant pointed out that he suffers from "schizophrenia and depressive episodes."The two experts who examined K. extensively, however, have come to a different conclusion. According to their final report, Thomas K. suffers from a "combined personality disorder with schizoid features". Or, put simply: He finds contacts with others challenging and has difficulty acknowledging and being aware of his own feelings.
From a psychiatric point of view, however, his liability is neither "diminished" nor "revoked," explains Norbert Leygraf, one of the psychiatrists involved.
How it began
In August 2012, Thomas K. left for Karachi in Pakistan, carrying a return ticket in order to disguise his plans. In a region bordering Afghanistan, he then joined the Taliban. Five and a half years later, in February 2018, Thomas K. was arrested in the southern Afghan province of Helmand during a night raid by Afghan and US soldiers. Weapons were also seized.He was then questioned for several weeks, first at Bagram Air Base north of Kabul, then in the capital. In April, officers from Germany's Federal Criminal Police Agency (BKA) picked him up and brought him back to Germany.
The BKA had already issued a warning about Thomas K. in late 2014. At the time, the UN mission in Kabul spread the warning via circular mail. It said that "German passport holder Thomas K. may well approach international compounds, possibly to conduct a suicide attack."
Read more:The high price of Afghanistan's broken democracy
Straight after the arrest in February, Afghan authorities suspected they were dealing with a Taliban "military adviser." German media headlines referred to Thomas K. as a "Taliban terrorist" and "presumed Taliban elite fighter."
The defendant interprets jihad as a "Muslim version of German military service", psychiatrist Leygraf explains in court. Thomas K. wanted to support the Taliban' s "struggle for liberation," as he regards them not as a terrorist organization but a "civil war party." The expert adds that Thomas K. had not shown any sense of guilt.
Thomas K. was born in Poland, but mainly grew up in Germany. He describes his childhood as "normal." When he was 16 years old, his father died. A few months later, the teenager converted to Islam. In court, Thomas K. describes how he first sensed an "inner conflict," which has plagued him ever since.
The German armed forces, the Bundeswehr, rejected him due to his psychological problems. Over the following years, he underwent clinical treatment twice. Thomas K. has no vocational training whatsoever, only a lower secondary school certificate. In 2006, he was classified as unable to work.
But Thomas K. is now desperately looking for a task or a job that would give him a sense of direction. He joins a Muslim aid organization in the western city of Worms, where he adopts a radical, Islamist view of the world.
The convert is targeted by German counter-terrorism investigators, but later manages to leave for Pakistan unhindered.
Looking back on this period of time, Thomas K. describes a growing urge to be able to live Islam "as purely as possible" - in a way that "would not have been possible in Germany," as he puts it.
Terrorist or just a follower?
Hamburg-based criminal scientist Daniel Zerbin specializes in profiles of terror suspects. He remains skeptical about Thomas K.'s statements and views them largely as "neutralization strategies to mitigate his guilt." In addition, says Zerbin, "the duration and nature of K.'s involvement clearly indicate that he was a respected member of the Taliban."
Thomas K. even joined up with the infamous Haqqani network. Among many other bombings, the terrorist group is believed to be responsible for the massive truck-bombattack on the German Embassy in Kabul on May 31, 2017, in which more than 150 people were killed.
K.'s name appeared on a list of potential suicide bombers. He admits in court that he wanted to build a remote-controlled vehicle to orchestrate an attack on a US military convoy. He underwent driving training, having fun "speeding on gravel roads." However, the driving instructor was "not so happy" with his driving skills, which is why he found himself suddenly at the bottom of the list of possible assassins.
Difficult to prove
Thomas K. describes how he then started looking for a new task. He found it in what he calls "media work." He planned on producing a "documentary film" on the Taliban, partnering with Yassin Chouka. The German-Moroccan brothers Yassin and Mounir Chouka from Bonn were well-known jihadi propagandists, who were also based in the Pakistani-Afghan border region.
Filming began in the summer of 2014. Thomas K. himself appeared on camera while firing a mortar grenade at an Afghan army camp. The mortar missed its target but back in Germany the incident led to the charge of "attempted murder."
Read more:Opinion: Hope for Afghanistan's democracy lies with voters
Who came up with the idea of the film? Who took part? Why did Thomas K. himself fire a grenade? The prosecutors keep asking as they haven't seen the footage. What happened to the material remains unclear. The Chouka brothers moved on to Syria in 2014. Yassin is assumed to have died in Iran one year later, Mounir is missing.The hare, the hedgehog and the bang
Thomas K. himself brought up the alleged propaganda video during his interrogation. The prosecution is largely relying on the defendant's testimony, as many aspects cannot be independently verified. This lack of clear evidence is what makes this trial so difficult.
K.'s public defender Yorck Fratzky told DW that K. had decided to confess in court and that this willingness to cooperate was based on a "process of rethinking," which had already started in 2015.
Thomas K. is hoping for a reduced sentence. "What I did back then was a mistake," he admits. "I have distanced myself from everything but the media work."
He claims he never intended to hurt anyone with the mortar grenade and that the attack was only supposed "to scare" the Afghan soldiers.
There is silence in the courtroom as the terror suspect goes on. "I wonder about what I've done, when the explosion happened. I might have killed insects by soundwaves, maybe even rabbits or a hedgehog. I will have to answer for this on Judgment Day."
A question of credibility
Without noticeable emotion, K. watches from behind bulletproof glass as five BKA police officers enter the witness stand. They are the officers who interrogated him in Afghanistan and Germany and dealt with him for hours. When describing Thomas K., they all use the same adjectives. The accused had been "friendly," "open," "polite," "calm" and "thoughtful."
"Did you believe him?" the judge wants to know. The BKA officials don't hesitate. "It all added up to a coherent picture," one of them replies. "Yes, I bought his story," says another. "I believed him," a third one adds.
The verdict is expected in December. At the end of the fifth day of the trial, presiding Judge Lutz Bachler addresses the defendant directly. "I am going out on a limb here, we don't regard you as a top terrorist," but "let's face it, you didn't just steal plums, either." The sentence will depend on the credibility of German Taliban member Thomas K.
Editor's note: Deutsche Welle follows the German press code, which stresses the importance of protecting the privacy of suspected criminals or victims and obliges us to refrain from revealing full names in such cases.

Title: Bomb attack on hideout of Haqqani militants kills three in Pakistan
By Saud Mehsud ISLAMABAD (Reuters) - A bomb targeting Haqqani network militants in their hideout in Pakistan's tribal areas bordering Afghanistan killed three people on Thursday, including two militants, a security official and a militant source said. No group claimed responsibility for the blast. The Haqqani network is known for bloody attacks against government institutions and foreign forces in Afghanistan, and its presence inside Pakistan is a major source of friction between Washington and Islamabad. The United States and Afghanistan accuse Pakistan of providing a safe haven to senior Haqqani commanders and allege the group operates freely on Pakistan's side of the porous frontier, charges that Pakistan has repeatedly denied. "It was the office of our commander Naik Muhammad," a Haqqani network source told Reuters about the attack near the Pakistan-Afghanistan border in Pakistan's South Waziristan region. "At the present we can not say who is behind this blast. It damaged our office," he said. When asked what he meant by term "office", the source said it was a meeting place for Haqqani and other militants. One of those wounded was regional Haqqani commander Jamshed Khan, he added. A Pakistani security official in the region said three people were killed in the attack, including two Haqqani militants, and 11 were wounded. U.S. officials have urged Pakistan to act against Haqqani militants but scant progress has been made. Privately, Pakistani officials say they fear such a move could see Haqqani militants turn their guns on Pakistani targets. Since coming to office, U.S. President Donald Trump has taken a hardline stance on Pakistan, recently saying during an interview with Fox News that the South Asian country doesn't "do a damn thing" for the U.S. despite receiving billions of dollars in aid. Trump's comments have further frayed the already fragile relationship between the two countries. Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan hit back at Trump by saying the United States is turning Pakistan into a "scapegoat" to mask its own failures in Afghanistan. (Writing by Saad Sayeed; Editing by Drazen Jorgic and Nick Macfie)
This college football season is still devoid of major upsets, but some teams have played tougher schedules than others.
Week 3 is in the books and oh my there's a lot of panic on these fantasy streets. Dalton Del Don joins Scott Pianowski for another edition of the 'People's Panic Meter' to answer all of your listener submissions. The duo examines the situations for Anthony Richardson, Brandon Aiyuk and the entire TE position.
With only 117 in MLB history, an immaculate inning is rarer than a no-hitter.
A Colorado ending so nice they stormed the field twice.
No, Mr. Monopoly didn't have a monocle — it's just one example of a false memory that many of us share, an expert says.
The conference has already received a commitment from Utah State and sent to UNLV an offer to join the league, sources tell Yahoo Sports.
The Volunteers won on the road at Oklahoma on Saturday.
These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. The rates on a few terms have increased today, but many rates have fallen. Lock in your rate today.
Plus, it's clear now the city of Green Bay has made a deal with the devil when it comes to QBs.
The 2024 Cardinals were average in run prevention and below average in run production.
At age 34, Sale’s likely Cy Young season will go down as one of the more improbable performances in recent memory.
MacOS Sequoia is the rare Mac update you should install immediately, especially if you're an iPhone user.
A teardown by iFixit now shows the new battery removal process in action, and it looks easier than ever.
Disney's parks business is slowing. But that might not be as concerning as it seems.
Caitlin Clark, possibly coming to an MLB broadcast booth near you.
Texas jumped Georgia on Sunday, and that means a bracket overhaul.
Cards Against Humanity filed a $15 million lawsuit against SpaceX for trespassing on property it owns in Texas, which happens to sit near SpaceX facilities.
The UConn star will likely be the No. 1 pick in the 2025 WNBA Draft, bringing with her an elite skill set that can instantly elevate any team.
The Tigers turned it over five times in a 24-14 loss to Arkansas.
For the third time in her career, A'ja Wilson is the WNBA MVP. And this time, it was unanimous — she joins Cynthia Cooper-Dyke as the only player to win the award unanimously.