Title: Ramadan 2019 Deadlier than 2018: Taliban Main Driver Behind Attacks
Predominantly Sunni jihadi groups carried out 187 terrorist attacks across nearly 30 countries on Ramadan this year, driving the number of fatalities up to 911 and injuries to 1,006 when compared to the casualties during the holiest month for Muslims in 2018, a Breitbart News database analysis shows.
The number of deaths went up by about ten percent, from 841 last year to 911 in 2019. The overall number of casualties, including injuries, slightly increased by less than five percent from 1,855 (841 killed; 1,014 injured) to 1,917 (911 killed; 1,006 injured) in 2019.

During the month of Ramadan in each of last three years — 2017 (1,639), 2018 (841), and 2019 (911) – jihadi organizations and other Islamists have killed 3,391 civilians and troops.
Despite the ongoing peace negotiations with the United States, the Taliban remained the most prolific and bloodiest terrorist group this year, surpassing the brutality of the weakened Islamic State (ISIS/ISIL).

Afghan Taliban narco-jihadisdeclineda repeat of the unprecedented Eid ceasefire last year, offered by the U.S.-backed president of war-plagued Afghanistan.
The Taliban carried out 75 attacks during the holy month, leaving behind 369 fatalities and 389 injuries in its path. That means the narco-terrorist group is responsible for slightly over 40 percent of all deaths. Afghan Taliban terrorists are responsible for about four out of every ten casualties that took place during Ramadan this year, including injuries, a rate the echoes the one from last year.
Even after the complete defeat of ISIS’s territorial caliphate in March, the group continues towreak havoc. U.S. intelligence and military officials have repeatedly warned the group remains adeadlymenace.
During Ramadan, ISIS went as far as burning the harvest of some of its victims in Iraq — something that had not happened often since the group rose to power around 2014, if at all.
ISIS jihadis, including its Nigeria-basedBoko Haramoffshoot, closely trailed the Taliban with 60 attacks that killed 292 people and wounded 371 others, with nearly half of the assaults in its home base of Iraq (24 attacks) and Syria (4).
Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration continues tofalsely claimit has defeated Boko Haram, attributing all Boko Haram attacks to the Islamic State as a separate group. In 2016, the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) allegedly broke away from Boko Haram in 2016 over leadership, but it has never been clear that ISWAP members were different individuals than those in the original Boko Haram.
Both theTalibanand, to a much lesser extent, itsISISrivals made Afghanistan the most dangerous Muslim country during Ramadan, when most Muslims abstain from eating, drinking, smoking, having sex, and other physical needs each day, starting from before the break of dawn until sunset.
Islamists and jihadi groups like the Taliban and ISISperceiveRamadan as a time when martyrdom and jihad are exceptionally rewarded in paradise, prompting a spike in the terrorist attacks during the period every year.
Predominantly Taliban terrorists killed 403 people and injured 512 others during the holy period in Afghanistan, home to nearly half of all casualties during the holy month.
Nigeria (130 deaths; 46 injuries) and Iraq (95 deaths; 152 injuries) were the second and third deadliest countries during Ramadan.

Consistent with last year’s rate, Breitbart News linked slightly over 30 percent of all deaths to ISIS. When taking injuries into account, ISIS is responsible for about 35 percent of all casualties.
Africa houses most of the 27 countries impacted by the Ramadan terrorist attacks. Consistent with the last two years, the vast majority of victims are Muslims.
Ramadan this year began at sunset on May 5 and ended on June 4 with many Muslim countries celebrating the Eid al-Fitr (“festival of breaking the fast”) holiday that marks the end of the holy period the following day.
The end of Ramadan was not withoutcontroversythis year. Shiite powerhouse Iran (June 5) and its regional foe and Sunni leader Saudi Arabia (June 4) reportedly disagreed on the start of Eid.
Breitbart News’ tally covers the 30-day period between May 6 and June 4.
Last year, Breitbart News determined that the near defeat of ISIS’s so-called caliphate nearlycutthe number of Ramadan fatalities in half, from 1,639 in 2017 to 841 last year.
The 2019 holy month death toll marked an increase from last year, though, fueled by Afghan Taliban terrorist activities.
Breitbart News was unable to determine who was behind 31 attacks that left behind 96 people dead and 138 wounded. That amounts to slightly over ten percent of all casualties.
Under the “others” category in the tally broken down by terrorist group, Breitbart News placed eight attacks (113 killed, 42 injured), including two by the only Shiite terrorist groups included in the count — Iran’s narco-terrorist proxy Hezbollah (one killed) and Tehran-allied Houthi rebels (ten killed) – in Yemen. The “others” category also includes two attacks by Fulani herdsmen jihadis, known to target Christians in and around Nigeria, one assault by Hizbul Mujahideen (one killed) in Indian-administered Kashmir, and three attacks by Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) jihadis (21 killed, 42 wounded).
Jihadis from the Pakistani Taliban consider themselves to belong to adistinctorganization from their Afghan counterparts, with different goals and leaders.
Al-Qaeda, including its Somali andSyrianaffiliates, killed (41) and injured (66) the least amount of people when compared to other prominent jihadi groups.
Breitbart News primarily gleans the figures for its Ramadan death count from the Religion of Peacewebsite, news articles, and government reports. The reports do not always discern between civilian and military troops casualties.
The Turkish state-run Anadolu Agency (AA) determined that the Taliban killed 200 civilians and wounded more than 300 others during Ramadan. That means civilians made up about 50 percent of all fatalities and deaths during what it is supposed to be the holiest period for Muslims.
Breitbart News counted some (21) of the very few kidnappings included in the database as injuries.
The total number of fatalities will likely increase after this report is published after some of the victims succumb to their injuries, changing the number of injuries as well.Breitbart News has documented the following attacks during Ramadan:
May 6 —North Waziristan, Pakistan— Suspected Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) jihadiskillfour security forces, injure ten others.
May 6 —Kirkuk, Iraq— Suspected ISIS killthreepolice officers, wound one other.
May 6 —Takhar, Afghanistan— Talibankillseight security force members.
May 6 —Farah, Afghanistan— Talibanstormsarmy checkpoint, killing 20, abducting two.
May 7 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haram razes homes and businesses in Molai village,killing11, including four soldiers, and woundinganother12.
May 7 —Pendjari National Park, Benin— Unknown jihadis from neighboring Burkina Faso kidnap two French tourists across the border in Benin andkilltheir guide in the Pendjari National Park that straddles both countries.
May 7 —Yatenga, Burkina Faso— Suspected al-Qaeda jihadiskilltoll booth operator and wound two others in the provincial capital of Ouahigouya.
May 7 —Laghman, Afghanistan— Taliban-linked bomb blastkillsfour police officers, including chief, and wounds four others.
May 7 —Salahuddin, Iraq— Suspected ISIS terrorists attack police officer’s house in the village of Mazarei,killingthree and wounding five others.
May 8 —Nineveh, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadiskillfive family members and wound two others inside their home in the Hammam al-Alil area south of Mosul.
May 8 —Diyala, Iraq— Bomb attack linked to suspected ISIS terroristwoundstwo members of the Baghdad-sanctioned Popular Mobilization Forces (PMF).
May 8 —Manbij, Syria— Suspected ISIS terroriststargetthe U.S.-backed and Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) in Aleppo province,killingtwo and injuring four others, including at least onechild.
May 8 —Manbij, Syria— Suspected ISIS bombattackkills three civilians in Aleppo province, reportedly allchildren.
May 8 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Taliban attacks U.S. aid group,killingnine,wounding24 others.
May 8 —Punjab, Pakistan— TTP attacks pilgrims at an 11th-century Sufi shrine in Lahore,killingat least 13, including at least one child, and injuring 21 others.
May 8 —Ghazni, Afghanistan— Taliban ambushes military convoy in the Qarabagh district,killingthree police officers and wounding two others.
May 9 —Wajir, Kenya— Al-Qaeda’s East Africa affiliate al-Shabaab claims attack on security forces near the border with Somalia,killingat least one soldier.
May 9 —Saladin, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadis target grain silo in the town of Shirqat,killingone guard.
May 9 —Nineveh, Iraq— ISISkillsa family of eight in Mosul, including the couple and their six children.
May 9 —Fezzan, Libya— SuspectedISISjihadiskilltwo and kidnapped a third person from the town of Ghadduwah.
May 9 —Baghdad, Iraq— ISIS suicide bomberkillseight, wounds 15 others as they broke their Ramadan fast at the Jamila market.
May 10 —Mopti, Mali— Suspected al-Qaeda jihadiskillfour civilians, wound two others at the market in the town of Bandiagara.
May 10 —Badghis, Afghanistan— Taliban targets two outposts,killing25 security personnel and wounding 11 others in Bala Murghab district.
May 10 —Borno, Nigeria— ISIS West Africakills11 troops in the town of Gajiganna.
May 10 —Bari, Somalia—SuspectedISISwoundstenin a failed assassination attempt against a local judge in the port city of Bosaso.
May 10 —Balkh, Afghanistan— Taliban attacks army outpost in Balkh District, killing one local police officer and wounding four soldiers and a police officer.
May 11 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haramattacksthe Moranti village near Maiduguri, leaving nine dead, at least one wounded, and four missings.
May 11 —Baghdad, Iraq— Suspected ISIS-linked bomb blastkillsone child, wounds two others in the Jisr Diyala neighborhood located in the southern part of the capital.
May 11 —Nangarhar, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban terroristskilldeputy intelligence director for the Afghan National Police (ANP) in the Kama district.
May 11 —Takhar, Afghanistan —Talibankillsfour police officers and wounds five others in a security outpost in Khwaja Ghar District.
May 11 —Sar-i-Pul,Afghanistan— Talibankillsone police officer in Sancharak District,
May 11 —Nangarhar, Afghanistan— Taliban ambushes andkillsa police officer as he drove home in the Kama District.
May 11 —Samangan, Afghanistan— Taliban narco-jihadiskillthree pro-Kabul militiamen in Khuram Ao Sarbagh district.
May 11 —Samangan, Afghanistan— Taliban rocket attackkillsfive civilians, including women, and wounds ten others in Dara-i-Suf Payan district.
May 12 —Mogadishu, Somalia—Al-ShabaabkillsTurkish civil engineer.
May 12 —Baghlan, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban jihadiskillprovince’s deputy intelligence director and injure an intelligence officer in the Dushi district.
May 12 —Hama, Syria— Suspected former al-Qaeda affiliate Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS)firesa rocket into Christian-majority town of Suqaylabiyah, killing five, including four children and a woman, and injuring six other children.
May 12 —Sanmatenga, Burkina Faso— Unknown jihadis attack Catholic church, set it ablaze, andkillsix, including the priest.
May 12 —Paktika, Afghanistan— Hundreds of Taliban jihadis storm outposts in the districts of Mata Khan and Zurmat,killing13 police officers and wounding 19 others.
May 12 —Wardak, Afghanistan— Taliban targets members of the Shiite Hazara community in the Hesa-e-Dowom-e-Behsod district,leaving5 civilians dead, 12 others wounded, and five missings.
May 13 —Baghlan, Afghanistan— Suspected Talibanshootsteacher in Nahren district.
May 13 —Borno, Nigeria— Improvised explosive device (IED) planted by Boko Haram on a road in Damboa district killed three Nigerian troops, including a commander, and wounded four others.
May 13 —Nangarhar, Afghanistan— ISIS carries out three explosions in its main South Asia stronghold that rocked the provincial capital of Jalalabad,killing9 and wounding more than 30 others.
May 13 —Diyala, Iraq— ISISkillsfather and son.
May 13 —Balochistan, Pakistan— Pakistani Taliban, or TTP, targeted a police vehicle near a mosque with an improvised bomb rigged to a motorcycle,killingfour and wounding 11 in the provincial capital of Quetta.
May 13 —Hama, Syria— Al-Qaeda affiliateHTSsuspected of firing more rockets into Christian-majority town of Suqaylabiyah,killingone child and injuring at least two civilians.
May 13 —Yatenga, Burkina Faso— Unknown jihadiskilledfour Catholics, burned Virgin Mary during a procession in the town ofOuahigouyain the Muslim-majority nation.
May 13 —Sar-i-Pul, Afghanistan— Talibankillsseven pro-Kabul militiamen, wounds six, and kidnaps three others in the provincial capital of Sar-i-Pul city.
May 13 —Badakhshan, Afghanistan— Talibankillsfour Afghan National Defense and Security (ANDSF) troops, including commander, and wounds one other in  Shahri Buzurg district.
May 14 —Nayrab Camp, Syria— Suspected members of al-Qaeda affiliate HTS lobbed missiles into a Syrian-regime held camp for displaced people in Aleppo province,killingat least 6 andwoundingat least 11 others, includingchildren, as they broke their Ramadan fast.
May 14 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Improvised explosive device (IED) attached to a vehiclekilleda police officer in the Taliban birthplace and wounded another.
May 14 —Baghlan, Afghanistan— Unknown terrorists attached IED to a vehicle,killingone civilian and wounding three others.
May 14 —Jowzjan, Afghanistan— Talibankillsone pro-government militiaman and wounds six others in Qarqin district.
May 14 —Tillaberi, Niger– ISISkills28 soldiers andwoundsat least two near the Mali border.
May 14 —Ghor, Afghanistan— Talibankillsshopkeeper inDolina district.
May 14 —Mogadishu, Somalia— Al-Shabaab suicide bomberkillsfour office workers and injures at least nine other civilians in the Warta Nabadda district.
May 15 —Paktia, Afghanistan— TalibankillsANDSF soldier and wounds two others.
May 15 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Unknown terrorists in the Taliban birthplace of Kandahar provincekilla police officer in charge of the provincial capital.
May 15 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISISkillstwo policemen and wounds another in the town of al-Rashad.
May 15 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISISkillsfour federal policemen near the town of Hawijah.
May 15 —Punjab, Pakistan— Islamist mobinjuresat least sevenChristianmen over blasphemy allegations in theArifwalaregion of Pakpattan district.
May 16 —Zabul, Afghanistan— Talibankillssix ANDSF troops and wounds six others in attacks on two military checkpoints in Shamulzayi district.
May 16 —Zabul, Afghanistan— Talibankillsthree police officers, wounds two others in the provincial capital.
May 16 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Unknown jihadiskillfour members of the Public Protection Forces in the outskirts of the Afghan capital.
May 16 —Adamawa, Nigeria— Boko Haram jihadismassacrefive people, including farmers and fishermen, in the Madagali district.
May 16 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haram terroristsmassacrenine people, including farmers and fishermen, in the Maichulmuri village.
May 16 —Lake Chad, Chad— Boko Haramkills13 villagers in the village of Ceilia.
May 16 —Manbij, Syria— Suspected ISIS jihadis carry out suicide vehicle-borne improvised explosive device (SVBIED) attack,killsone U.S.-backed Kurdish fighter andinjuringten civilians.
May 17 —Diyala, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadiskilledtwo civilians, including a teacher and an elderly man in the district of Khanaqin.
May 17 —Balkh, Afghanistan— Taliban jihadis, as they fled reinforcements arrival, launched rocket into Humvee,killingtwo police officers, injuring two others.
May 17 —Jowzjan, Afghanistan— At least one mankillsone of his fellow pro-government militiamen in Aqcha District, steals weapons from outpost, and joins Taliban insurgency.
May 17 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Unknown jihadis attach bomb to vehicle,killingone civilian, wounding another.
May 18 —Fezzan, Libya— Suspected ISIS jihadiskilltwo guards and a soldier and kidnap four other people at the Zella oilfield.
May 18 —Herat, Afghanistan— Suspected Talibankillsfive children, wounds 20 other civilians in the main the market of Obe district.
May 18 —Takhar, Afghanistan— Talibankillsnine militiamen and wounds seven in Rustaq district.
May 18 —Helmand, Afghanistan— Taliban roadside bombkillstwo police officers and injures two others in Washer district.
May 18 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haram attacks refugee camp,killingtwo people and injuring 12 others.
May 19 —Giza, Egypt— Suspected ISIS jihadis target a tourist bus with a bomb,injuring17.
May 19 —Diyala, Iraq— Suspected ISIS terrorists,killseven Baghdad-sanctioned PMF troops and injures 26 others.
May 19 —Timbuktu, Mali— Suspected jihadiskillone United Nations peacekeeper soldier and wound six others.
May 19 —Kunduz, Afghanistan— Talibankillstwo members of the Afghan National Army (ANA), an ANDSF branch, in Imam Sahib District near the country’s border with Tajikistan.
May 19 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Talibankillsthree police officers, wounds three others at a checkpoint in the country’s capital.
May 19 —Kandahar, Afghanistan—Talibanjihadis ambush andkilla member of the Afghan Special Forces (ASF) in the Nari Pul area of the provincial capital of Kandahar city.
May 19 —Helmand, Afghanistan— Taliban roadside bombkillsthe Washir District deputy police chief and his bodyguard as they rushed in with backup.
May 19 —Faryab, Afghanistan— Parents accuse Taliban narco-jihadis of “gang rape” their two young girls in the Andkhoi district.
May 19 —Villejuif, France— Jihadiwoundstwo civilians with aknifein a southern Paris suburb while chanting the jihadi battle cry “Allahu Akbar.”
May 19 —Diyala, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadis attack a bus carrying Shiite PMF fighters,killingseven and wounding 26 in the town of Balad Ruz.
May 19 —Republican Subordination, Tajikistan— ISIS jihadis held in a high-security prison in the city of Vahda,killthree guards and five fellow prisoners amid a deadly prison riot.
May 19 —Sikasso Region, Mali— Suspected jihadiskillseven, including four civilians in the town of Koury, near the country’s volatile border region of Burkina Faso.
May 20 —Kapisa, Afghanistan— Taliban bombkillsfour, including child, two women in the Nejrab District.
May 20 —Paktia, Afghanistan— Talibankillstwo security guards of former Afghan lawmaker in the provincial capital of Gardez City.
May 20 —Borno, Nigeria— Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP)killsat least three soldiers when it storms a military base in the town of Gubio. Six soldiers remain missing.
May 20 —Sangha-Mbaéré, Central African Republic (CAR)— SuspectedIslamistsdecapitateFrench-Spanishnun inNolawhereritualcrimes are also common.
May 21 —Ouham Pende, Central African Republic (CAR)— Anti-Christian and MuslimFulaniterrorist-linked militia Return, Reclamation, Rehabilitation (3R)killmore than 50 people in several villages.
May 22 —Ghazni, Afghanistan— Talibankillsthree, including children, wounds 20 others, including civilians, with explosives-laden Humvee near provincial capital of Ghazni City.
May 22 —Borno, Nigeria— ISWAP releasesvideopurportedly showing execution of nine Nigerian troops. The date of the filming of the video is not specified, but it is the first time the deaths of those in the video are confirmed.
May 22 —Mogadishu, Somalia— Al-Shabaab carries out car bomb attack near checkpoint,killingnine and wounding 13.
May 22 —Sikasso Region, Mali— Suspected jihadiskilltwo Ghanaian drivers close to the country’s border with volatile Burkina Faso.
May 22 —Salahuddin, Iraq— ISISkillsone police officer, wounds three others in the Allas oilfield.
May 22 —Nineveh, Iraq— Suspected ISIS bomb attackkillsone civilian in the provincial capital Mosul’s al-Shoura district.
May 23 —Anbar, Iraq— Suspected ISIS car bombkillsone PMF fighter and a civilian,woundstwo others in the town of al-Qaim.
May 24 —Salahuddin, Iraq— Suspected ISIS terroristskillseven, including farmers, injure four in Sharqat District before burning their harvest.
May 24 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Suspected jihadiskilltwo, including prayer leader, and wound 16 others at a mosque.
May 24 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Suspected Talibanwoundfive Romanian NATO troops in the birthplace of the Taliban.
May 24 —Balochistan, Pakistan— Suspected jihadis attack mosque in provincial capital of Quetta, killingfourand injuring18.
May 24 —Borno, Nigeria— ISWAPkillsfive troops, wound two others.
May 24 —Balkh, Afghanistan— Talibankillssix local police officers, wounds nine others in Charbolak district.
May 24 —Sar-i-Pul, Afghanistan— Talibankillstwo Afghan soldiers, including army commander, in Sozma Qala district, wounds six others.
May 24 —Kandahar, Afghanistan—Talibanclaims responsibility for attack in provincial capital of group’s birthplace that left one police officerdead, another wounded.
May 24 —Lyon, France—Suspectedjihadis injure up to 13 in bomb blast outside bakery in the capital city of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region.
May 24 —Salahuddin, Iraq— ISISkillstwo, including a woman and PMF fighters, wounds five others, including PMF fighter and woman’s family in two separates attacks, one in the provincial capital and the other in Baiji.
May 25 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haram ambushkills25 troops and civilians.
May 25 —Lake Chad, Chad— Boko Haramkillsat four local troops, journalist, and injures11others in Ngouboua.
May 25 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISIS bombkillsfive, injures ten, sets crops ablaze in al-Hawija.
May 25 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Terrorists in Taliban birthplace’s Spin Boldak district blow up motorcycle,killingone civilian, wounding at least two others.
May 25 —Faryab, Afghanistan— Talibankillsone 16-year-old boy, wounds two other civilians in Dawlat Abad district.
May 25 —Sulu, Philippines— ISIS-linked Abu Sayyaf jihadiskilltwo children, injure seven, including two civilians when they attacked soldiers in the provincial capital of Jolo.
May 26 —Nineveh, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadiskillfive civilians, wound eight others in provincial capital Mosul’s Rabia district.
May 26 —Dhaka, Bangladesh— Suspected ISIS jihadis bombed police van,injuringthree, including one officer.
May 26 —Toulfe, Burkina Faso— Suspected jihadis attack Catholic Church during Sunday service,killingfour.
May 26 —Farah, Afghanistan— Talibankillsten Afghan soldiers in Bala Buluk district while they driving back in Humvee after picking up salaries.
May 26 —Sari Pul, Afghanistan— Talibankillsfour ANDSF members in provincial capital, wounds 22 others.
May 26 —Paktia, Afghanistan— Unknown terrorists’ bomb strikes vehicle in Patan District,killinga tribal elder.
May 26 —Takhar, Afghanistan— Talibankillstwo pro-Kabul militiamen and one police officer in Namak Ab district.
May 26 —Kunduz, Afghanistan— Talibankillstwo local police officers, wounds three others in Chardara district.
May 26 —Kunduz, Afghanistan— Talibankillsthree officers, wounds four others in the Third Police district.
May 26 —Plateau, Nigeria— Pastors group accuses Fulani Muslim-linked terrorists ofkilling30 Christians, burning over 20 houses during church worship in provincial capital of Jos.
May 26 —Kermanshah, Iran— Suspected Islamic terroristkillsplainclothes police officer near Ramadan religious gathering in the Eslamabad-e Gharb region.
May 26 —Hama, Syria— Al-Qaeda-linked HTS jihadis firenearly40 rockets into Christiancityof Suqaylabiyah, killing five civilians andinjuring12 others.
May 27 —Balkh, Afghanistan— Talibankillsthree pro-Kabul militiamen, wounds another in Zarih district.
May 27 —Badghis, Afghanistan— Talibankillsfour pro-Kabul militiamen, including commander, in Qala-e-Now region.
May 27 —Sar-i-Pul, Afghanistan— Talibankillseight ANDSF members, wounds 29 others, and captures three at the Qashqari military base in the provincial capital.
May 27 —Ghor, Afghanistan— Talibankillstwo pro-Kabul militiamen, wounds two others in provincial capital.
May 27 —Badakhshan, Afghanistan— Unknown jihadis’ bomb strikes Afghan military vehicle,killingone soldier, wounding two others in Arghankhwa district.
May 27 —Kunduz, Afghanistan— Talibankillsthree pro-Kabul militiamen, two soldiers, and also captures three militiamen, three civilians in Khan Abad district.
May 27 —Samangan, Afghanistan— Talibankillsone police officer and wounds another in the provincial capital.
May 27 —Kunduz, Afghanistan— Unknown jihadis in the provincial capitalassassinateone of the advisers for Afghan Chief Executive Abdullah Abdullah, and wounds one of the victim’s bodyguard.
May 27 —Sar-i-Pul, Afghanistan— Talibankillsone local police officer in Sozma Qala district.
May 27 —Logar, Afghanistan— Talibankillsfive soldiers, wounds four, captures four others, and steals Humvee at army checkpoint in Baraki Barak district.
May 27 —Ghor, Afghanistan— Talibankills18 Afghan security forces, including 15 pro-Kabul militiamen and three police officers who were clearing the area of terrorists so workers could fix UNESCO world heritage site damaged by flash floods in Shahrak district.
May 27 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haramkillsseven, wounds two, including members of civilian task force, and steal food in Jere region.
May 27 —Kashmir, India— Suspected Hizbul Mujahideenkillscivilian in Handwara town.
May 27 —Pattani, Thailand— Suspected Islamic terroristskilltow, including 14-year-old, wound four troops in a marketplace bombing in Nong Chik district.
May 27 —Mount Lebanon, Lebanon— Hezbollah narco-terroristskillinnocent bystander when reportedly retaliating to attack on a mosque in Christian town of Damour in Chouf district.
May 27 —Cabo Delgado, Mozambique— Suspected Islamistskill16 civilians, wound ten others in Macomia.
May 28 —Ghazni, Afghanistan— TalibankillsAfghan military prosecutor and a government official.
May 28 —Ghor, Afghanistan— Talibankills18 in the provincial capital, including 13 civilians, and wounds 17 others.
May 28 —Khost, Afghanistan— Talibankills13 soldiers, wounds 10 others in Sabari district.
May 28 —Samangan, Afghanistan— Talibankillsfive soldiers, one police officer and wounds three police officers in Dara-i-Suf Payin district.
May 28 —Wardak, Afghanistan— Sunni Taliban-linked insider attack leaves nine police officers of Shiite Hazara ethnicity and the bodyguard of the governor of a nearby provincedead.
May 28 —Hama, Syria— Al-Qaeda-linked HTS fires rockets into several regime-held townskillingonewoman, injuring seven other civilians
May 29 —Baghlan, Afghanistan— Talibankillssix soldiers and wounds four others in the provincial capital.
May 29 —Khost, Afghanistan— Unknown terrorists’ bomb hits civilian vehicle,killingone and wounding five others, including women and children.
May 29 —Khost, Afghanistan— Unknown terroristskilltribal elder and former director of the Ministry of Refugees and Repatriation in a mosque near his home in the provincial capital.
May 29 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Unknown terroristskillone police officer at outpost in nation’s capital where Taliban and ISIS are known to operate.
May 30 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISIS jihadiskillone villager, wound seven others in Daquq district.
May 30 —Kirkuk, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadis carry out multiple explosions near commercial center,killingfour people and wounding 23 others.
May 30 —Kabul, Afghanistan— ISIS suicide bomberkillssix people and wounds 16 others when he blew himself outside military academy.
May 30 —Balkh, Afghanistan— Talibankillsseven pro-Kabul militiamen, wounds eight others in Dawlat Abad district.
May 30 —Badghis, Afghanistan— Talibankills16 Afghan commandos, wounds 15 others in Bala Murghab district.
May 30 —Jowzjan, Afghanistan— Talibankillsfour pro-Kabul militiamen in Qarqin district.
May 30 —Faryab, Afghanistan— Talibankills13 soldiers, one pro-Kabul militiaman, wounds three, and capture two others in Kohistan district.
May 30 —Kunduz, Afghanistan— Talibankillsone local police officer, wounds five, including two police officers and three soldiers.
May 30 —Jowzjan, Afghanistan— Talibankillstwo police officers, one civilian, and wounds another civilian.
May 30 —Diyala, Iraq— ISISkillsone villager, wounds seven others, sets fire to their farms.
May 30 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISISkillspoliceman, wounds another in town of Abu Saida.
May 31 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Taliban attacks U.S. convoy,killingfour Afghan civilians, injuring four American troops.
May 31 —Sulu, Philippines— ISIS-linked Abu Sayyaf jihadiskillDutch hostage as he tried to escape from mountain village near town of Patikul.
May 31 —Jerusalem, Israel— Palestinian terroristwoundstwo in stabbing.
June 1 —Ghazni, Afghanistan— Talibankillseight police officers, wounds seven in provincial capital.
June 1 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haramkillsworshipper,woundsthree others inside mosque in Sajeri village near state capital.
June 1 —North Waziristan, Pakistan— Islamic terroristkillsone soldier with bomb in Boya area.
June 1 —Raqqa, Syria— Suspected ISIS suicide bomberkillsten, wounds 20 in group’s former capital.
June 1 —Hadhramaut, Yemen— Al-Qaeda jihadis attack Saudi-backed militia checkpoint, killing at least onefighter, wounding twoothers.
June 1 —Diyala, Iraq—SuspectedISIS terroristskillthree family members, including man and his son near town of Abu Saida.
June 1 —Anbar, Iraq— Suspected jihadiskillnine civilians by setting them ablaze while they were looking for truffles in Malashah area.
June 2 —Narathiwat, Thailand—SuspectedIslamic insurgentskillone village head inside mosque in Ra Ngae district, injure praying man.
June 2 —Kabul, Afghanistan— ISIS targets university bus,killingtwo andwounding24, including tworeporters.
June 2 —Farah, Afghanistan— Talibankillssix border security forces, wound eight others guarding country’s boundary with terrorist group ally Iran.
June 2 —Derna, Libya— ISIS claims responsibility for bomb blasts thatwounds18 people in the coastal city.
June 2 —Aleppo Province, Syria— Islamic terrorist suicide car bombkills22, including five children and two women,woundsmore than 20 near mosque in Azaz region.
June 3 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Unknown terrorists target bus carrying government employees,killingfive, wounding ten in capital where both ISIS and Taliban operate.
June 3 —Kashmir, India— Unknown terroristskillcivilian in Pantha Chowk area in the outskirts of Srinagar city.
June 3 —Tripoli, Lebanon— ISIS-linked suicide bomberkillstwo police, two soldiers.
June 3 —Mandera, Kenya— Suspected al-Shabaab jihadiskillstwo security forces.
June 4 —Baghlan, Afghanistan— Unknown terrorists’ bomb detonated near mosque in Nahrin district,killingtwo civilians, wounding 14 others.
June 4 —North Kivu, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC)— ISISkills13 civilians, wounds 12 others in Beni region.
June 4 —Diyala, Iraq— ISISwoundstwo soldiers at army checkpoint in Beni Zayd village.
June 4 —Salahuddin, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadiskillsix security forces in al-Tarmiyah district.
June 4 —Daraa, Syria— Unknown terroristskillone and wound two civilians near mosque in Buser al-Harir city.
June 4 —Al-Bayda, Yemen— Shiite Houthi rebelskillimam, nine worshippers at a mosque in the Qiva district over a dispute of the start of Eid al-Fitr, the holiday that marks the end of Ramadan.
Pleaselet us knowif you're having issues with commenting.




Copyright © 2024 Breitbart

Title: Afghanistan Today: The Taliban and Al Qaida Are Still There (and Isis, Too) 
As America approaches the 18th anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, we also approach the 18th anniversary of the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan.
U.S. forces are still there. So are the Taliban and Al Qaida -- and a growing branch of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.
From January through March 2019, according to the latest report from the lead inspector general for Operation Freedom's Sentinel, four Americans were killed in combat in Afghanistan.
"On October 7, 2001, the United States launched combat operations under Operation Enduring Freedom to topple the Taliban regime and eliminate al Qaeda," the inspector general explained in a brief historical summary of the war.
"The Taliban regime fell quickly and U.S. officials declared an end to major combat operations on May 1, 2003," said the summary.
Then the democracy building started.
"Subsequently, the United States and international coalition partners continued to work with the Afghan government to build democratic institutions in the country," the inspector general explained.
"However, as the new Afghan government developed, the Taliban regrouped and launched increasingly deadly attacks to recapture lost territory," said the inspector general.
U.S. Forces-Afghanistan (USFOR-A) provided the inspector general with estimates of how many fighters the Taliban and various terrorist groups now have in Afghanistan. But these estimates, it said, were made with "low confidence."
"USFOR-A told the DOD OIG that it estimated the Taliban has 20,000 to 30,000 fighters in Afghanistan," the report said. "An additional 10,000-25,000 fighters periodically join the Taliban for attacks, though only a portion of them are fighting at any given time."
"USFOR-A estimated, with low confidence, that there are as many as 5,000 ISIS-K (Islamic State of Iraq and Syria-Khorasan) fighters and 300 al Qaeda fighters in Afghanistan," said the report.
The State Department's latest report on human rights in Afghanistan describes some of what these "fighters" were doing in 2018.
"The Taliban and other insurgents continued to kill security force personnel and civilians using indiscriminate tactics such as improvised explosive devices (IEDs), suicide attacks, and rocket attacks, and to commit disappearances and torture," said the State Department.
"The Taliban and ISIS-Khorasan Province (ISIS-K) used children as suicide bombers, soldiers, and weapons carriers," it said.
"In some areas the Taliban enforced a parallel judicial system based on a strict interpretation of sharia," it said. "Punishments included execution and mutilation."
"On June 4, ISIS-K targeted a gathering of religious scholars in Kabul with a suicide bombing, killing 14 after the scholars issued a religious declaration condemning suicide attacks," said the report.
"On January 20, the Taliban attacked the Inter-Continental Hotel in Kabul, killing 42, including 17 foreign nationals," said the State Department.
Led by Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad, the U.S. government is now negotiating a "peace deal" with the Taliban.
"On January 28, Ambassador Khalilzad announced that the United States and the Taliban had reached an 'agreement in principle' on four elements necessary for a peace settlement: counterterrorism assurances, troop withdrawal, intra-Afghan dialogue, and a comprehensive ceasefire," said the inspector general's report.
"In March, Ambassador Khalilzad stated that the two sides were 'agreed in draft' on the first two elements," said the inspector general.
This apparently means the U.S. government is ready to trust the Taliban to prevent terrorists from finding sanctuary in Afghanistan after U.S. troops withdraw.
"On preventing terrorist safe haven in Afghanistan, Ambassador Khalilzad stated in a media interview that '(t)he Taliban have committed, to our satisfaction, to do what is necessary that (sic) would prevent Afghanistan from ever becoming a platform for international terrorist groups or individuals,'" said the inspector general's report.
In the meantime, the U.S. has stopped targeting the Taliban's drug business.
The inspector general's report for October through December 2018 said, "In 2017, U.S. and Afghan forces launched an air and ground campaign, called Operation Iron Tempest, to target Taliban narcotics sites."
"At that time," it said, "USFOR-A estimated there were 400-500 drug labs in Afghanistan that produced $200 million per year in revenue for the Taliban."
"During the quarter, however, the U.S. military ended this campaign," the inspector general said.
"Narcotics production in Afghanistan remained at elevated levels," it said.
Al Qaida, according to the latest inspector general report, is now "among the smaller terrorist groups in Afghanistan."
"USFOR-A assessed that al Qaeda poses 'a limited, indirect threat' to U.S. and allied forces through the support it provides for the Taliban and Haqqani Network attacks," said the report. "Specifically, al Qaeda runs training camps, helps plan and fund attacks, and creates and disseminates propaganda highlighting attacks by other groups."
"Al Qaeda remains dependent on the Taliban for safe haven, facilitation routes, and supply networks, according to USFOR-A's assessment," it says.
It is worth remembering that when the United States delivered justice to Osama bin Laden, he was in Pakistan, not Afghanistan. The troops that took him out were not part of an invasion. They were part of a carefully planned surgical strike.
They were not building a nation. They were killing a terrorist.
The ultimate question for the United States in Afghanistan is not "What we can do over there?" but "What is the most effective and prudent way to stop terrorists from coming here?"
Terence P. Jeffrey is the editor in chief of CNSnews.com.
Townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis.
Copyright © Townhall.com/Salem Media.
All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you

Title: Russia’s Falling Out With Kabul – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
Russia’s embrace of the Taliban is increasingly coming at the expense of Afghan President Ghani’s government.
On May 27, a delegation of Afghan politicians, led by former President of Afghanistan Hamid Karzai, and representatives of the Taliban’s Qatar officecongregatedin Moscow to celebrate 100 years of Russia-Afghanistan diplomatic relations. After a series of discussions, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov urged theswift withdrawalof foreign troops from Afghanistan and called for the intensification of intra-Afghan dialogue in pursuit of peace.
Although this summit reaffirmed Russia’s desire to play an influential role in the resolution of the war in Afghanistan, the event sparked controversy in Kabul as no representatives of Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s government were present in the audience. The absence of Ghani’s representatives at the talks was unsurprising to close followers of Russian policy in Afghanistan, as Moscow’s relationship with the internationally recognized Afghan government has worsened in recent months. This deterioration was caused by Ghani’s frustration with Russia’s bypassing of the Afghan government in peace negotiations and Moscow’s increased openness to the Taliban playing a major role in shaping Afghanistan’s political future.
Since Russia hosted its first major diplomatic summit on Afghanistan in December 2016, Ghani-aligned officials have expressed discontent with Moscow’s willingness to sidestep the Afghan government. On December 26, 2016, Afghan officials described Russia’s decision tohost representativesof China and Pakistan for a discussion of the Afghanistan conflict in Moscow without Afghan government representation as “illegitimate and dubious,” and openly warned Russia against meddling in Afghanistan’s internal affairs. In response to these criticisms, Russian officials invited Afghan government representatives to the six-party talks hosted in Moscow in February 2017, and argued that any intra-Afghan peace process mustaccept the leading roleof Kabul. This summit saw Russia embrace a balancing strategy between Ghani’s government and the Taliban, to bolster its influence over the conflict resolution process.
Although Russia largely adhered to this balancing strategy in the months that followed, the breakdown of the scheduled September 2018 Moscow-format peace negotiations on Afghanistan tested Russia’s commitment to engaging with Kabul. While Lavrov initially accommodated Ghani’s reservations by postponing the talks, the November 2018 Moscow-format talks and February 2019 conference with the Taliban revealed Russia’s willingness to engage in intra-Afghan diplomacy without the presence of Ghani’s government. During these negotiations, Russiaengaged directlywith former Karzai and former National Security Advisor Hanif Atmar, who will run against Ghani in Afghanistan’s upcoming presidential elections.
Russia’s marginalization of Ghani’s government in its pursuit of peace has been criticized in Kabul. Ahead of the February 2019 talks, Afghan MP Fariba Ahmadi Kakar warned thatRussia’s engagementwith Afghan opposition factions in the absence of the Afghan government would complicate the peace process, as it would drive wedges between anti-Taliban Afghan policymakers. The Afghan Foreign Ministry supported this view by predicting that the negotiations wouldnot facilitate peacein Afghanistan and urging Russia to accept an Afghan-led settlement. Former Afghan Minister of the Interior Amrullah Saleh displayed his discontent with the May 27 talks in even more stark terms, bysarcastically statingthat “Russian experts of human studies had a stunning experience,” and alleging that Afghan opposition figures who traveled to Moscow betrayed the public.
The reduced willingness of the United States to confront Russia on its exclusion of the Afghan government from its peace talks has compounded the challenge Moscow-held negotiations pose to Ghani’s legitimacy. While the United Statesrejected an offerfrom Russia to participate in Kremlin-backed negotiations with the Taliban in August 2018, the U.S. Department of State sent a delegate to the November 9 Moscow-format negotiations and U.S. special envoy to Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad,traveled to Moscowfor a trilateral summit with China in late April. This suggests that Russia’s diplomatic processes are gaining more widespread international acceptance and will reduce the likelihood of Moscow changing its conduct to suit Ghani’s preferences.
Russia’s willingness to accept a more prominent role for the Taliban in Afghanistan’s political system has also caused consternation in Kabul. To assuage Afghan government concerns about Russia’s engagement with the Taliban, Russian officials haverepeatedly emphasizedthat they are only communicating with the Taliban to facilitate peace in Afghanistan and will not form a partnership with the Taliban, as it is a Kremlin-designated terrorist organization. These claims were viewed skeptically in Afghanistan due to U.S. allegations that Russia has transferred small arms to the Taliban but were not overtly challenged in the Afghan government’s official discourse on Russian peace efforts.
Since the February 2019 peace negotiations, Russia has pivoted away from this limited partnership approach to engagement with the Taliban, in favor of a comprehensive relationship-building effort. This shift was triggered in part by a diplomatic blunder, as asenior Taliban officialexplicitly contradicted Russia’s denials that these talks were government-backed, but also reflect Moscow’s broader reassessment of Afghanistan’s political trajectory. As Russian policymakersbelievethe Taliban is on the ascendancy, they want to establish closer relations with the organization and work with the Taliban on combating the Islamic State, which directly threatens Russia’s national security.
The joint calls from Lavrov and Taliban co-founder Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar for thewithdrawal of U.S. troopsfrom Afghanistan at the May 27 talks reflected their synergies in perspectives on conflict resolution. After this display of common purpose, Oleg Barabanov, an influential foreign policy analyst at the Valdai Discussion Club, postulated that Russiashould promotethe notion of a “trustworthy Taliban,” as the “friend-foe” stereotypes in Afghanistan had been jettisoned. While Ghani has offered the Taliban eventual political recognition as a carrot to participate in the peace talks, this cordial rhetoric is at odds with the opinions of many influential figures in Kabul, like Amrullah Saleh, who recently described the Taliban as having“scorpion genes”and possessing “Bronze Age logic.”
Although influential Afghanpolitical figures,like Kabul governor Mohammed Yaqub Heidari, continue to emphasize the Afghan government’s close relationship with Russia, tensions between Russian policymakers and Ghani’s government have risen in recent months. As Russia continues to court Afghan opposition figures in peace negotiations and engage the Taliban without the presence of Afghan government representatives, this discord is likely to sully Moscow-Kabul relations for the foreseeable future.
Samuel Ramani is a DPhil candidate in International Relations at St. Antony’s College, University of Oxford, specializing in post-1991 Russian foreign policy. He can be followed onTwitter@samramani2.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: Front Page Featured | MRCTV
The mission of the Media Research Center is to document and combat the falsehoods and censorship of the news media, entertainment media and Big Tech in order to defend and preserve America's founding principles and Judeo-Christian values. The MRC is a research and education organization operating under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, and contributions to the MRC are tax-deductible.
Sign up for our MRCTV Daily newsletter to receive the latest news.

Title: China acknowledges hosting Taliban’s chief peace negotiator for talks | World News - The Indian Express
China on Thursday for the first time acknowledged that it recently hosted Afghan Taliban’s chief peace negotiator Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar for talks as part of its stepped-up efforts to enlarge its strategic role in Afghanistan and efforts to restore peace in the war-torn country.
Mullah Baradar, one of the four top commanders who formed the Taliban in 1994, was released from jail last year by the Pakistan government. He is believed to be the highest ranking Afghan Taliban prisoner freed so far.
After his release from the jail, Mullah Bardar has been holding talks with US Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad.
China, a close ally of Pakistan, has been trying to iron out differences between Pakistan and Afghanistan. Afghanistan accuses Pakistan of providing safe haven to the Afghan Taliban, Haqqani network and other militant groups, which carry out attacks in the war-torn country.
The “head of Taliban political office in Doha, Bardar, visited China”, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang told the media here Thursday.
“During his visit, the Chinese officials exchanged views with him on the peace and reconciliation process as well as the fight against terrorism,” he said.
Bardar was told about the constructive role being played by China in peace and reconciliation process in Afghanistan, Lu said.
“We always support the Afghan-led and Afghan-owned extensive and inclusive peace and reconciliation as well as the internal dialogue among the Afghanis. So, we have made the position clear with the Taliban chief negotiator,” he said.
“This is an important part of our efforts to promote peace talks. Both sides agreed that the exchange is mutually beneficial and we also agreed to seek communication and cooperation for a political settlement of the Afghan issue. We will try and talk through various means and ways to play our due role in realising peace and reconciliation, stability and development in Afghanistan,” Lu said.
Mullah Baradar held several senior positions in the Taliban government before its fall in 2001. He was once considered the most influential Taliban leader after Mullah Muhammad Omar.
Asked what the Taliban wants to end civil war in Afghanistan, Lu said, “I believe the relevant parties in Afghanistan who are committed to peace talks hope to resolve the internal situation in Afghanistan and achieve sustainable peace and reconciliation”.
“China is trying to promote the dialogue of Afghanis. Another issue is the joint fight against terrorism,” he said.
China has also been holding talks with India over the situation in Afghanistan.
China’s special envoy in Afghanistan Deng Xijun visited New Delhi in May last and held talks the top External Affairs Ministry officials.
India and China also conducted a joint programme to train diplomats of Afghanistan.
Sanjeev Kumar, a talented actor, had a passion for food and even rented a house to satisfy his love for non-vegetarian dishes. Fellow actors Shammi Kapoor, Shatrughan Sinha, and Randhir Kapoor would often join him for late-night feasts. Sachin Pilgaonkar revealed this in a recent interview, highlighting Sanjeev's love for food and his bond with his colleagues.



Title: Why Pakistan continues to support the Taliban in Afghanistan
The US invasion of Afghanistan in 2001 and the subsequent war in Afghanistan plummeted the country into the disarray that it is currently experiencing. Though the US is engaged in negotiations with the Taliban to conclude a peace deal that would allow American troops to withdraw from Afghanistan, the crisis is far from resolved.Pakistan’s close relationship with the Taliban, in particular, is considered central to solving the current situation in Afghanistan. Though it is not the only regional state that has links with the Taliban, it is viewed by the US as the most important in getting the Taliban to the negotiating table for talks to end the 18 years of war. This is as the country’s military has old links with the Afghan militia dating back to the birth of the group during the mid-1990s.Unpacking Pakistan’s approachThere are number of key reasons why the Pakistani military continues to support the Taliban in Afghanistan. First, Islamabad views the Afghan Taliban as the legitimate representatives of a large proportion of Afghanistan’s Pashtun-majority population.Show Full Article
The US invasion of Afghanistan in 2001 and the subsequent war in Afghanistan plummeted the country into the disarray that it is currently experiencing. Though the US is engaged in negotiations with the Taliban to conclude a peace deal that would allow American troops to withdraw from Afghanistan, the crisis is far from resolved.
Pakistan’s close relationship with the Taliban, in particular, is considered central to solving the current situation in Afghanistan. Though it is not the only regional state that has links with the Taliban, it is viewed by the US as the most important in getting the Taliban to the negotiating table for talks to end the 18 years of war. This is as the country’s military has old links with the Afghan militia dating back to the birth of the group during the mid-1990s.Unpacking Pakistan’s approachThere are number of key reasons why the Pakistani military continues to support the Taliban in Afghanistan. First, Islamabad views the Afghan Taliban as the legitimate representatives of a large proportion of Afghanistan’s Pashtun-majority population.Show Full Article
Pakistan’s close relationship with the Taliban, in particular, is considered central to solving the current situation in Afghanistan. Though it is not the only regional state that has links with the Taliban, it is viewed by the US as the most important in getting the Taliban to the negotiating table for talks to end the 18 years of war. This is as the country’s military has old links with the Afghan militia dating back to the birth of the group during the mid-1990s.
Unpacking Pakistan’s approachThere are number of key reasons why the Pakistani military continues to support the Taliban in Afghanistan. First, Islamabad views the Afghan Taliban as the legitimate representatives of a large proportion of Afghanistan’s Pashtun-majority population.Show Full Article
There are number of key reasons why the Pakistani military continues to support the Taliban in Afghanistan. First, Islamabad views the Afghan Taliban as the legitimate representatives of a large proportion of Afghanistan’s Pashtun-majority population.
Second, the Pakistani military is suspicious of unfriendly elements controlling Kabul. This has forced it to invest primarily in the ideological militia of a specified kind, as the men in uniform believe that — irrespective of their internal differences — the Taliban will help Pakistan’s broader national security interests. This would make a future Taliban government in Afghanistan different from a Northern Alliance-led political arrangement. This situation is a reminder of a case of foreign policy objectives guiding domestic politics of the state.Next to this, Pakistan’s security establishment has perhaps drawn lessons from its dealings with other militant groups like Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT). Based in Pakistan and accused by India of involvement in the Mumbai terror attacks of 2008, the militant organization’s leadership comes from the largest Pakistani province Punjab and has remained on the right side of the state. This is as LeT practises a particular model of violent extremism, where jihad is exported to foreign territories, but Sharia is not proselytized inside the country. While the demands for the implementation of Sharia or the interpretation of Sharia are issues on which there are similarities between the LeT and Islamic State of Khorasan (IS-K) or even Al-Qaeda. The key point of difference is that supporting LeT and, according to Pakistan’s military, the Taliban, is seen as still securing domestic security. This model does have its limitations as the operational strategy may be relatively safe, but the ideology is not.Also read:US didn’t start the war, says envoy Khalilzad as Taliban launches op against Afghan govtNo central controlThere are seemingly several inconsistencies in the Pakistani military’s approach to the Taliban. Particularly relevant is that, unlike its heydays during the 1990s when the Taliban in Afghanistan were under the central control of its leader Mullah Omar, the militia is now more of a network with various leaders. This means that its violence is difficult to control and that it is not easy for a state actor to determine who to talk to. This has resulted in Pakistan itself being a victim of attacks launched by groups based in its territory that were either part of the more extensive Taliban network or had a partnership with it. These losses, however, have not caused Pakistan’s military to waver from supporting the Taliban or its inclusion in Afghan politics.Islamic State of KhorasanAnother flaw in the Pakistani’s military approach is that it does not take into account internal challenges for the Taliban in Afghanistan. They are not only divided among themselves, but also have to deal with other militias such as Walayat–e–Khorasan, also known as the Islamic State of Khorasan (IS-K). Present in almost 30 districts in Afghanistan, particularly in the eastern areas like Nangarhar and Kunar, the IS-K is better funded and has a more cohesive structure than the Taliban. Since its formation in Afghanistan in 2014, the IS-K has drawn on the human resource of the Taliban and has, at times, taken an ideologically harder and confrontational position against the Taliban.Meaning that, even if the Taliban could organize themselves into a more centralized and cohesive structure, it would find it difficult to push back the IS-K. As detailed in my review essay for International Affairs, this is largely due to the resourcefulness of the latter, but also because of the ideological relevance of the organization. This is as, in Islamic theology, the area of Khorasan — that supposedly comprises Afghanistan, Pakistan and parts of northern India — is particularly significant because it is the source of an army that would fight all non-Muslims and infidels.Opposition to the military’s approachThis demonstrates the difficult position the Taliban is in in Afghanistan and the problematic nature of the Pakistani military’s unwavering support of the group. In the past year, the military’s approach has come under severe criticism from many of the people living in the tribal areas of Pakistan. This territory has, since the war against the Soviet forces in Afghanistan and later the ‘war on terror’, turned into a hideout for the militant group. Currently, an indigenous movement headed by young leaders — the Pashtun Tahafuz Movement (movement for the protection of Pashtun), popularly known as PTM — from the area is demanding that the military abstains from policies that cost people their lives. However, Pakistan’s military is bent on presenting the PTM as against national interests and an extension of a historical, ethnic separatist movement, despite it being neither a secessionist movement nor having any demands against the state. Meanwhile, the army government communications headquarters in Pakistan has continued to give access to various Taliban groups, causing ordinary people to fall victim to land mines, killings by both the militants and security forces and to abduction and disappearances.Also read:Trump’s ‘surrender’ to Taliban compromises India’s national securityDespite the various problems that the Pakistani military’s support for the Taliban has created, they appear steadfast in their support of the organization due to the reasons detailed above and their perception that the Taliban is aligned with Pakistan’s interests. If any lessons are to be drawn from the over 30 years of war in Afghanistan and Pakistan’s approach to the Taliban, it is that militias cannot be allowed to fill the political space created by the weakening of the state. The present Pashtun movement acts as a bulwark against an aggressive approach that, in the future, would bring more significant harm to the stability of Afghanistan, Pakistan, and South Asia in general.Ayesha Siddiqa is currently a research associate at the Centre for International Studies and Diplomacy (CISD) at the School for Oriental and African Studies, London.This article wasoriginally publishedin Medium.
Second, the Pakistani military is suspicious of unfriendly elements controlling Kabul. This has forced it to invest primarily in the ideological militia of a specified kind, as the men in uniform believe that — irrespective of their internal differences — the Taliban will help Pakistan’s broader national security interests. This would make a future Taliban government in Afghanistan different from a Northern Alliance-led political arrangement. This situation is a reminder of a case of foreign policy objectives guiding domestic politics of the state.
Next to this, Pakistan’s security establishment has perhaps drawn lessons from its dealings with other militant groups like Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT). Based in Pakistan and accused by India of involvement in the Mumbai terror attacks of 2008, the militant organization’s leadership comes from the largest Pakistani province Punjab and has remained on the right side of the state. This is as LeT practises a particular model of violent extremism, where jihad is exported to foreign territories, but Sharia is not proselytized inside the country. While the demands for the implementation of Sharia or the interpretation of Sharia are issues on which there are similarities between the LeT and Islamic State of Khorasan (IS-K) or even Al-Qaeda. The key point of difference is that supporting LeT and, according to Pakistan’s military, the Taliban, is seen as still securing domestic security. This model does have its limitations as the operational strategy may be relatively safe, but the ideology is not.Also read:US didn’t start the war, says envoy Khalilzad as Taliban launches op against Afghan govtNo central controlThere are seemingly several inconsistencies in the Pakistani military’s approach to the Taliban. Particularly relevant is that, unlike its heydays during the 1990s when the Taliban in Afghanistan were under the central control of its leader Mullah Omar, the militia is now more of a network with various leaders. This means that its violence is difficult to control and that it is not easy for a state actor to determine who to talk to. This has resulted in Pakistan itself being a victim of attacks launched by groups based in its territory that were either part of the more extensive Taliban network or had a partnership with it. These losses, however, have not caused Pakistan’s military to waver from supporting the Taliban or its inclusion in Afghan politics.Islamic State of KhorasanAnother flaw in the Pakistani’s military approach is that it does not take into account internal challenges for the Taliban in Afghanistan. They are not only divided among themselves, but also have to deal with other militias such as Walayat–e–Khorasan, also known as the Islamic State of Khorasan (IS-K). Present in almost 30 districts in Afghanistan, particularly in the eastern areas like Nangarhar and Kunar, the IS-K is better funded and has a more cohesive structure than the Taliban. Since its formation in Afghanistan in 2014, the IS-K has drawn on the human resource of the Taliban and has, at times, taken an ideologically harder and confrontational position against the Taliban.Meaning that, even if the Taliban could organize themselves into a more centralized and cohesive structure, it would find it difficult to push back the IS-K. As detailed in my review essay for International Affairs, this is largely due to the resourcefulness of the latter, but also because of the ideological relevance of the organization. This is as, in Islamic theology, the area of Khorasan — that supposedly comprises Afghanistan, Pakistan and parts of northern India — is particularly significant because it is the source of an army that would fight all non-Muslims and infidels.Opposition to the military’s approachThis demonstrates the difficult position the Taliban is in in Afghanistan and the problematic nature of the Pakistani military’s unwavering support of the group. In the past year, the military’s approach has come under severe criticism from many of the people living in the tribal areas of Pakistan. This territory has, since the war against the Soviet forces in Afghanistan and later the ‘war on terror’, turned into a hideout for the militant group. Currently, an indigenous movement headed by young leaders — the Pashtun Tahafuz Movement (movement for the protection of Pashtun), popularly known as PTM — from the area is demanding that the military abstains from policies that cost people their lives. However, Pakistan’s military is bent on presenting the PTM as against national interests and an extension of a historical, ethnic separatist movement, despite it being neither a secessionist movement nor having any demands against the state. Meanwhile, the army government communications headquarters in Pakistan has continued to give access to various Taliban groups, causing ordinary people to fall victim to land mines, killings by both the militants and security forces and to abduction and disappearances.Also read:Trump’s ‘surrender’ to Taliban compromises India’s national securityDespite the various problems that the Pakistani military’s support for the Taliban has created, they appear steadfast in their support of the organization due to the reasons detailed above and their perception that the Taliban is aligned with Pakistan’s interests. If any lessons are to be drawn from the over 30 years of war in Afghanistan and Pakistan’s approach to the Taliban, it is that militias cannot be allowed to fill the political space created by the weakening of the state. The present Pashtun movement acts as a bulwark against an aggressive approach that, in the future, would bring more significant harm to the stability of Afghanistan, Pakistan, and South Asia in general.Ayesha Siddiqa is currently a research associate at the Centre for International Studies and Diplomacy (CISD) at the School for Oriental and African Studies, London.This article wasoriginally publishedin Medium.
Next to this, Pakistan’s security establishment has perhaps drawn lessons from its dealings with other militant groups like Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT). Based in Pakistan and accused by India of involvement in the Mumbai terror attacks of 2008, the militant organization’s leadership comes from the largest Pakistani province Punjab and has remained on the right side of the state. This is as LeT practises a particular model of violent extremism, where jihad is exported to foreign territories, but Sharia is not proselytized inside the country. While the demands for the implementation of Sharia or the interpretation of Sharia are issues on which there are similarities between the LeT and Islamic State of Khorasan (IS-K) or even Al-Qaeda. The key point of difference is that supporting LeT and, according to Pakistan’s military, the Taliban, is seen as still securing domestic security. This model does have its limitations as the operational strategy may be relatively safe, but the ideology is not.
Also read:US didn’t start the war, says envoy Khalilzad as Taliban launches op against Afghan govtNo central controlThere are seemingly several inconsistencies in the Pakistani military’s approach to the Taliban. Particularly relevant is that, unlike its heydays during the 1990s when the Taliban in Afghanistan were under the central control of its leader Mullah Omar, the militia is now more of a network with various leaders. This means that its violence is difficult to control and that it is not easy for a state actor to determine who to talk to. This has resulted in Pakistan itself being a victim of attacks launched by groups based in its territory that were either part of the more extensive Taliban network or had a partnership with it. These losses, however, have not caused Pakistan’s military to waver from supporting the Taliban or its inclusion in Afghan politics.Islamic State of KhorasanAnother flaw in the Pakistani’s military approach is that it does not take into account internal challenges for the Taliban in Afghanistan. They are not only divided among themselves, but also have to deal with other militias such as Walayat–e–Khorasan, also known as the Islamic State of Khorasan (IS-K). Present in almost 30 districts in Afghanistan, particularly in the eastern areas like Nangarhar and Kunar, the IS-K is better funded and has a more cohesive structure than the Taliban. Since its formation in Afghanistan in 2014, the IS-K has drawn on the human resource of the Taliban and has, at times, taken an ideologically harder and confrontational position against the Taliban.Meaning that, even if the Taliban could organize themselves into a more centralized and cohesive structure, it would find it difficult to push back the IS-K. As detailed in my review essay for International Affairs, this is largely due to the resourcefulness of the latter, but also because of the ideological relevance of the organization. This is as, in Islamic theology, the area of Khorasan — that supposedly comprises Afghanistan, Pakistan and parts of northern India — is particularly significant because it is the source of an army that would fight all non-Muslims and infidels.Opposition to the military’s approachThis demonstrates the difficult position the Taliban is in in Afghanistan and the problematic nature of the Pakistani military’s unwavering support of the group. In the past year, the military’s approach has come under severe criticism from many of the people living in the tribal areas of Pakistan. This territory has, since the war against the Soviet forces in Afghanistan and later the ‘war on terror’, turned into a hideout for the militant group. Currently, an indigenous movement headed by young leaders — the Pashtun Tahafuz Movement (movement for the protection of Pashtun), popularly known as PTM — from the area is demanding that the military abstains from policies that cost people their lives. However, Pakistan’s military is bent on presenting the PTM as against national interests and an extension of a historical, ethnic separatist movement, despite it being neither a secessionist movement nor having any demands against the state. Meanwhile, the army government communications headquarters in Pakistan has continued to give access to various Taliban groups, causing ordinary people to fall victim to land mines, killings by both the militants and security forces and to abduction and disappearances.Also read:Trump’s ‘surrender’ to Taliban compromises India’s national securityDespite the various problems that the Pakistani military’s support for the Taliban has created, they appear steadfast in their support of the organization due to the reasons detailed above and their perception that the Taliban is aligned with Pakistan’s interests. If any lessons are to be drawn from the over 30 years of war in Afghanistan and Pakistan’s approach to the Taliban, it is that militias cannot be allowed to fill the political space created by the weakening of the state. The present Pashtun movement acts as a bulwark against an aggressive approach that, in the future, would bring more significant harm to the stability of Afghanistan, Pakistan, and South Asia in general.Ayesha Siddiqa is currently a research associate at the Centre for International Studies and Diplomacy (CISD) at the School for Oriental and African Studies, London.This article wasoriginally publishedin Medium.
Also read:US didn’t start the war, says envoy Khalilzad as Taliban launches op against Afghan govt
No central controlThere are seemingly several inconsistencies in the Pakistani military’s approach to the Taliban. Particularly relevant is that, unlike its heydays during the 1990s when the Taliban in Afghanistan were under the central control of its leader Mullah Omar, the militia is now more of a network with various leaders. This means that its violence is difficult to control and that it is not easy for a state actor to determine who to talk to. This has resulted in Pakistan itself being a victim of attacks launched by groups based in its territory that were either part of the more extensive Taliban network or had a partnership with it. These losses, however, have not caused Pakistan’s military to waver from supporting the Taliban or its inclusion in Afghan politics.Islamic State of KhorasanAnother flaw in the Pakistani’s military approach is that it does not take into account internal challenges for the Taliban in Afghanistan. They are not only divided among themselves, but also have to deal with other militias such as Walayat–e–Khorasan, also known as the Islamic State of Khorasan (IS-K). Present in almost 30 districts in Afghanistan, particularly in the eastern areas like Nangarhar and Kunar, the IS-K is better funded and has a more cohesive structure than the Taliban. Since its formation in Afghanistan in 2014, the IS-K has drawn on the human resource of the Taliban and has, at times, taken an ideologically harder and confrontational position against the Taliban.Meaning that, even if the Taliban could organize themselves into a more centralized and cohesive structure, it would find it difficult to push back the IS-K. As detailed in my review essay for International Affairs, this is largely due to the resourcefulness of the latter, but also because of the ideological relevance of the organization. This is as, in Islamic theology, the area of Khorasan — that supposedly comprises Afghanistan, Pakistan and parts of northern India — is particularly significant because it is the source of an army that would fight all non-Muslims and infidels.Opposition to the military’s approachThis demonstrates the difficult position the Taliban is in in Afghanistan and the problematic nature of the Pakistani military’s unwavering support of the group. In the past year, the military’s approach has come under severe criticism from many of the people living in the tribal areas of Pakistan. This territory has, since the war against the Soviet forces in Afghanistan and later the ‘war on terror’, turned into a hideout for the militant group. Currently, an indigenous movement headed by young leaders — the Pashtun Tahafuz Movement (movement for the protection of Pashtun), popularly known as PTM — from the area is demanding that the military abstains from policies that cost people their lives. However, Pakistan’s military is bent on presenting the PTM as against national interests and an extension of a historical, ethnic separatist movement, despite it being neither a secessionist movement nor having any demands against the state. Meanwhile, the army government communications headquarters in Pakistan has continued to give access to various Taliban groups, causing ordinary people to fall victim to land mines, killings by both the militants and security forces and to abduction and disappearances.Also read:Trump’s ‘surrender’ to Taliban compromises India’s national securityDespite the various problems that the Pakistani military’s support for the Taliban has created, they appear steadfast in their support of the organization due to the reasons detailed above and their perception that the Taliban is aligned with Pakistan’s interests. If any lessons are to be drawn from the over 30 years of war in Afghanistan and Pakistan’s approach to the Taliban, it is that militias cannot be allowed to fill the political space created by the weakening of the state. The present Pashtun movement acts as a bulwark against an aggressive approach that, in the future, would bring more significant harm to the stability of Afghanistan, Pakistan, and South Asia in general.Ayesha Siddiqa is currently a research associate at the Centre for International Studies and Diplomacy (CISD) at the School for Oriental and African Studies, London.This article wasoriginally publishedin Medium.
There are seemingly several inconsistencies in the Pakistani military’s approach to the Taliban. Particularly relevant is that, unlike its heydays during the 1990s when the Taliban in Afghanistan were under the central control of its leader Mullah Omar, the militia is now more of a network with various leaders. This means that its violence is difficult to control and that it is not easy for a state actor to determine who to talk to. This has resulted in Pakistan itself being a victim of attacks launched by groups based in its territory that were either part of the more extensive Taliban network or had a partnership with it. These losses, however, have not caused Pakistan’s military to waver from supporting the Taliban or its inclusion in Afghan politics.
Islamic State of KhorasanAnother flaw in the Pakistani’s military approach is that it does not take into account internal challenges for the Taliban in Afghanistan. They are not only divided among themselves, but also have to deal with other militias such as Walayat–e–Khorasan, also known as the Islamic State of Khorasan (IS-K). Present in almost 30 districts in Afghanistan, particularly in the eastern areas like Nangarhar and Kunar, the IS-K is better funded and has a more cohesive structure than the Taliban. Since its formation in Afghanistan in 2014, the IS-K has drawn on the human resource of the Taliban and has, at times, taken an ideologically harder and confrontational position against the Taliban.Meaning that, even if the Taliban could organize themselves into a more centralized and cohesive structure, it would find it difficult to push back the IS-K. As detailed in my review essay for International Affairs, this is largely due to the resourcefulness of the latter, but also because of the ideological relevance of the organization. This is as, in Islamic theology, the area of Khorasan — that supposedly comprises Afghanistan, Pakistan and parts of northern India — is particularly significant because it is the source of an army that would fight all non-Muslims and infidels.Opposition to the military’s approachThis demonstrates the difficult position the Taliban is in in Afghanistan and the problematic nature of the Pakistani military’s unwavering support of the group. In the past year, the military’s approach has come under severe criticism from many of the people living in the tribal areas of Pakistan. This territory has, since the war against the Soviet forces in Afghanistan and later the ‘war on terror’, turned into a hideout for the militant group. Currently, an indigenous movement headed by young leaders — the Pashtun Tahafuz Movement (movement for the protection of Pashtun), popularly known as PTM — from the area is demanding that the military abstains from policies that cost people their lives. However, Pakistan’s military is bent on presenting the PTM as against national interests and an extension of a historical, ethnic separatist movement, despite it being neither a secessionist movement nor having any demands against the state. Meanwhile, the army government communications headquarters in Pakistan has continued to give access to various Taliban groups, causing ordinary people to fall victim to land mines, killings by both the militants and security forces and to abduction and disappearances.Also read:Trump’s ‘surrender’ to Taliban compromises India’s national securityDespite the various problems that the Pakistani military’s support for the Taliban has created, they appear steadfast in their support of the organization due to the reasons detailed above and their perception that the Taliban is aligned with Pakistan’s interests. If any lessons are to be drawn from the over 30 years of war in Afghanistan and Pakistan’s approach to the Taliban, it is that militias cannot be allowed to fill the political space created by the weakening of the state. The present Pashtun movement acts as a bulwark against an aggressive approach that, in the future, would bring more significant harm to the stability of Afghanistan, Pakistan, and South Asia in general.Ayesha Siddiqa is currently a research associate at the Centre for International Studies and Diplomacy (CISD) at the School for Oriental and African Studies, London.This article wasoriginally publishedin Medium.
Another flaw in the Pakistani’s military approach is that it does not take into account internal challenges for the Taliban in Afghanistan. They are not only divided among themselves, but also have to deal with other militias such as Walayat–e–Khorasan, also known as the Islamic State of Khorasan (IS-K). Present in almost 30 districts in Afghanistan, particularly in the eastern areas like Nangarhar and Kunar, the IS-K is better funded and has a more cohesive structure than the Taliban. Since its formation in Afghanistan in 2014, the IS-K has drawn on the human resource of the Taliban and has, at times, taken an ideologically harder and confrontational position against the Taliban.
Meaning that, even if the Taliban could organize themselves into a more centralized and cohesive structure, it would find it difficult to push back the IS-K. As detailed in my review essay for International Affairs, this is largely due to the resourcefulness of the latter, but also because of the ideological relevance of the organization. This is as, in Islamic theology, the area of Khorasan — that supposedly comprises Afghanistan, Pakistan and parts of northern India — is particularly significant because it is the source of an army that would fight all non-Muslims and infidels.Opposition to the military’s approachThis demonstrates the difficult position the Taliban is in in Afghanistan and the problematic nature of the Pakistani military’s unwavering support of the group. In the past year, the military’s approach has come under severe criticism from many of the people living in the tribal areas of Pakistan. This territory has, since the war against the Soviet forces in Afghanistan and later the ‘war on terror’, turned into a hideout for the militant group. Currently, an indigenous movement headed by young leaders — the Pashtun Tahafuz Movement (movement for the protection of Pashtun), popularly known as PTM — from the area is demanding that the military abstains from policies that cost people their lives. However, Pakistan’s military is bent on presenting the PTM as against national interests and an extension of a historical, ethnic separatist movement, despite it being neither a secessionist movement nor having any demands against the state. Meanwhile, the army government communications headquarters in Pakistan has continued to give access to various Taliban groups, causing ordinary people to fall victim to land mines, killings by both the militants and security forces and to abduction and disappearances.Also read:Trump’s ‘surrender’ to Taliban compromises India’s national securityDespite the various problems that the Pakistani military’s support for the Taliban has created, they appear steadfast in their support of the organization due to the reasons detailed above and their perception that the Taliban is aligned with Pakistan’s interests. If any lessons are to be drawn from the over 30 years of war in Afghanistan and Pakistan’s approach to the Taliban, it is that militias cannot be allowed to fill the political space created by the weakening of the state. The present Pashtun movement acts as a bulwark against an aggressive approach that, in the future, would bring more significant harm to the stability of Afghanistan, Pakistan, and South Asia in general.Ayesha Siddiqa is currently a research associate at the Centre for International Studies and Diplomacy (CISD) at the School for Oriental and African Studies, London.This article wasoriginally publishedin Medium.
Meaning that, even if the Taliban could organize themselves into a more centralized and cohesive structure, it would find it difficult to push back the IS-K. As detailed in my review essay for International Affairs, this is largely due to the resourcefulness of the latter, but also because of the ideological relevance of the organization. This is as, in Islamic theology, the area of Khorasan — that supposedly comprises Afghanistan, Pakistan and parts of northern India — is particularly significant because it is the source of an army that would fight all non-Muslims and infidels.
Opposition to the military’s approachThis demonstrates the difficult position the Taliban is in in Afghanistan and the problematic nature of the Pakistani military’s unwavering support of the group. In the past year, the military’s approach has come under severe criticism from many of the people living in the tribal areas of Pakistan. This territory has, since the war against the Soviet forces in Afghanistan and later the ‘war on terror’, turned into a hideout for the militant group. Currently, an indigenous movement headed by young leaders — the Pashtun Tahafuz Movement (movement for the protection of Pashtun), popularly known as PTM — from the area is demanding that the military abstains from policies that cost people their lives. However, Pakistan’s military is bent on presenting the PTM as against national interests and an extension of a historical, ethnic separatist movement, despite it being neither a secessionist movement nor having any demands against the state. Meanwhile, the army government communications headquarters in Pakistan has continued to give access to various Taliban groups, causing ordinary people to fall victim to land mines, killings by both the militants and security forces and to abduction and disappearances.Also read:Trump’s ‘surrender’ to Taliban compromises India’s national securityDespite the various problems that the Pakistani military’s support for the Taliban has created, they appear steadfast in their support of the organization due to the reasons detailed above and their perception that the Taliban is aligned with Pakistan’s interests. If any lessons are to be drawn from the over 30 years of war in Afghanistan and Pakistan’s approach to the Taliban, it is that militias cannot be allowed to fill the political space created by the weakening of the state. The present Pashtun movement acts as a bulwark against an aggressive approach that, in the future, would bring more significant harm to the stability of Afghanistan, Pakistan, and South Asia in general.Ayesha Siddiqa is currently a research associate at the Centre for International Studies and Diplomacy (CISD) at the School for Oriental and African Studies, London.This article wasoriginally publishedin Medium.
This demonstrates the difficult position the Taliban is in in Afghanistan and the problematic nature of the Pakistani military’s unwavering support of the group. In the past year, the military’s approach has come under severe criticism from many of the people living in the tribal areas of Pakistan. This territory has, since the war against the Soviet forces in Afghanistan and later the ‘war on terror’, turned into a hideout for the militant group. Currently, an indigenous movement headed by young leaders — the Pashtun Tahafuz Movement (movement for the protection of Pashtun), popularly known as PTM — from the area is demanding that the military abstains from policies that cost people their lives. However, Pakistan’s military is bent on presenting the PTM as against national interests and an extension of a historical, ethnic separatist movement, despite it being neither a secessionist movement nor having any demands against the state. Meanwhile, the army government communications headquarters in Pakistan has continued to give access to various Taliban groups, causing ordinary people to fall victim to land mines, killings by both the militants and security forces and to abduction and disappearances.
Also read:Trump’s ‘surrender’ to Taliban compromises India’s national securityDespite the various problems that the Pakistani military’s support for the Taliban has created, they appear steadfast in their support of the organization due to the reasons detailed above and their perception that the Taliban is aligned with Pakistan’s interests. If any lessons are to be drawn from the over 30 years of war in Afghanistan and Pakistan’s approach to the Taliban, it is that militias cannot be allowed to fill the political space created by the weakening of the state. The present Pashtun movement acts as a bulwark against an aggressive approach that, in the future, would bring more significant harm to the stability of Afghanistan, Pakistan, and South Asia in general.Ayesha Siddiqa is currently a research associate at the Centre for International Studies and Diplomacy (CISD) at the School for Oriental and African Studies, London.This article wasoriginally publishedin Medium.
Also read:Trump’s ‘surrender’ to Taliban compromises India’s national security
Despite the various problems that the Pakistani military’s support for the Taliban has created, they appear steadfast in their support of the organization due to the reasons detailed above and their perception that the Taliban is aligned with Pakistan’s interests. If any lessons are to be drawn from the over 30 years of war in Afghanistan and Pakistan’s approach to the Taliban, it is that militias cannot be allowed to fill the political space created by the weakening of the state. The present Pashtun movement acts as a bulwark against an aggressive approach that, in the future, would bring more significant harm to the stability of Afghanistan, Pakistan, and South Asia in general.Ayesha Siddiqa is currently a research associate at the Centre for International Studies and Diplomacy (CISD) at the School for Oriental and African Studies, London.This article wasoriginally publishedin Medium.
Despite the various problems that the Pakistani military’s support for the Taliban has created, they appear steadfast in their support of the organization due to the reasons detailed above and their perception that the Taliban is aligned with Pakistan’s interests. If any lessons are to be drawn from the over 30 years of war in Afghanistan and Pakistan’s approach to the Taliban, it is that militias cannot be allowed to fill the political space created by the weakening of the state. The present Pashtun movement acts as a bulwark against an aggressive approach that, in the future, would bring more significant harm to the stability of Afghanistan, Pakistan, and South Asia in general.
Ayesha Siddiqa is currently a research associate at the Centre for International Studies and Diplomacy (CISD) at the School for Oriental and African Studies, London.This article wasoriginally publishedin Medium.
Ayesha Siddiqa is currently a research associate at the Centre for International Studies and Diplomacy (CISD) at the School for Oriental and African Studies, London.
This article wasoriginally publishedin Medium.
This article wasoriginally publishedin Medium.

Subscribe to our channels onYouTube,Telegram&WhatsApp
Support Our Journalism
India needs fair, non-hyphenated and questioning journalism, packed with on-ground reporting. ThePrint – with exceptional reporters, columnists and editors – is doing just that.
Sustaining this needs support from wonderful readers like you.
Whether you live in India or overseas, you can take a paid subscription by clickinghere.
Support Our Journalism
Pakistan supports the Taliban because they are united in Sunni Islam and Pakistan wants Afghanistan “strategic depth”. The US was used by the Sunnis to get the Soviet Union out of Afghanistan. Not the other way around.
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Δ
Required fields are marked*

Name*
Email*

Δ
Pakistan supports the Taliban because they are united in Sunni Islam and Pakistan wants Afghanistan “strategic depth”. The US was used by the Sunnis to get the Soviet Union out of Afghanistan. Not the other way around.
Copyright © 2024 Printline Media Pvt. Ltd. All rights reserved.

Title: Phased success
The talks between senior Afghan politicians and a Taliban delegation being held in Moscow marked success in itself. The Taliban have been refusing to engage in dialogue with the government led by Afghan President Ashraf Ghani in Kabul, holding that it is a puppet setup. While the Ghani-led government is still not included, senior Afghan politicians, some of whom will be contesting Afghanistan’s forthcoming election, have remained involved in the talks. The Taliban say that no peace effort in Afghanistan can succeed until foreign actors withdraw troops from the country. They have been negotiating for months with US diplomats on the process for the phased withdrawal of US and Nato forces from Afghanistan. While some agreements have been reached at Moscow, the Taliban accept that more rounds of dialogue are needed. Moscow is attempting to broker this process in the hope of restoring peace to the region.Although few would wish to see a return of the Taliban to a country that they terrorised for years, targeting women and minorities in particular, most agree that an exit by US-led forces from Afghanistan is central to any chance of bringing back peace. There has been conflict in Afghanistan since the time the US moved in, with Taliban forces locked in war with US-backed governments in Kabul. Hundreds have died as a result of this struggle, including those killed in US orchestrated attacks. The war has spilled over into Pakistan and Islamabad remains a central player in persuading the Taliban to come to the table. This in itself does not please the Ghani-led government.The efforts by Moscow to bring about a gathering around the same table are welcome. We have already seen after nearly two decades of war that only dialogue can restore calm to a region torn apart by constant violence. Pakistan has suffered alongside Afghanistan. The two countries therefore need to work together, alongside other stakeholders, to find a formula that will bring about peace in Afghanistan. The election in Afghanistan and the takeover by a new government in Kabul will be an important time. We hope the new setup can succeed in entering into discussion with the Taliban and weaving together the elusive settlement that is still slipping away from the hands of leaders even after they have been locked in a process of dialogue for many months.
Although few would wish to see a return of the Taliban to a country that they terrorised for years, targeting women and minorities in particular, most agree that an exit by US-led forces from Afghanistan is central to any chance of bringing back peace. There has been conflict in Afghanistan since the time the US moved in, with Taliban forces locked in war with US-backed governments in Kabul. Hundreds have died as a result of this struggle, including those killed in US orchestrated attacks. The war has spilled over into Pakistan and Islamabad remains a central player in persuading the Taliban to come to the table. This in itself does not please the Ghani-led government.The efforts by Moscow to bring about a gathering around the same table are welcome. We have already seen after nearly two decades of war that only dialogue can restore calm to a region torn apart by constant violence. Pakistan has suffered alongside Afghanistan. The two countries therefore need to work together, alongside other stakeholders, to find a formula that will bring about peace in Afghanistan. The election in Afghanistan and the takeover by a new government in Kabul will be an important time. We hope the new setup can succeed in entering into discussion with the Taliban and weaving together the elusive settlement that is still slipping away from the hands of leaders even after they have been locked in a process of dialogue for many months.
The efforts by Moscow to bring about a gathering around the same table are welcome. We have already seen after nearly two decades of war that only dialogue can restore calm to a region torn apart by constant violence. Pakistan has suffered alongside Afghanistan. The two countries therefore need to work together, alongside other stakeholders, to find a formula that will bring about peace in Afghanistan. The election in Afghanistan and the takeover by a new government in Kabul will be an important time. We hope the new setup can succeed in entering into discussion with the Taliban and weaving together the elusive settlement that is still slipping away from the hands of leaders even after they have been locked in a process of dialogue for many months.
Foremost among these is systemic inequality that remains rooted in international relations and global capitalist...
Penned by Justice Mansoor Ali Shah, much-awaited detailed judgment comes after two months
Upsurge in cases and deaths led WHO to declare a public health emergency of international concern in August
Despite compliance, the rally failed to attract the numbers the party had hoped for
Problems with the Pakistani justice system run deeper than a dysfunctional system that routinely results in the...
Imran Khan has said that even martial laws of Generals Ziaul Haq and Pervez Musharraf were better than today’s...
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: Afghanistan and the ongoing hype about Daesh
Rumours abound about the power of Daesh in Afghanistan, going as far as to claim that the terror group’s leader is in the country, but is this simply a convenient theory for Russia, the US and the Afghan government?
An Afghan soldier manning a military vehicle.
A few weeks ago, following years of silence, a new video of Abu Bakr al Baghdadi appeared proving that the Daesh leader seems to be alive and well.
While large parts of the extremist group have been eradicated in Syria and Iraq at a significant cost to civilians, many observers wondered about the current hideout of the ‘caliph’, and after a short time, some of thempointed outthat he might have moved to Afghanistan after his loss of power in the Middle East.
Afghanistan's Daesh branch, the Islamic Stace in Khorasan Province (ISKP), is still very active across the country and responsible for several attacks in different provinces.
In fact, ISKP has become one of the main insurgent groups along with the Taliban since its first appearance in 2013. According to the United Missions Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA), at least 1,773 civilians have been killed and injured during the first quarter of 2019.
UNAMA points out thatISKP is responsible for at least 12 percent of the civilian casualties, and that the group regularly inflicts violence on religious minorities.
Last March, for example, ISKP fired 12 mortar rounds into a crowd of people marking the anniversary of the death of a prominent ethnic Hazara leader in the middle of Kabul. As a result, 11 civilians were killed, and more than 100 were injured.
In 2018, ISKP's violence reached its peak, resulting in at least 2,181 civilian casualties (681 deaths and 1,500 injured) which represented a 118 per cent increase from 2017.
The majority of the incidents occurred across districts in Nangarhar province while some – according to UNAMA, at least 20 – took place in Kabul. Generally speaking, ISKP proved that it’s able to conduct sophisticated attacks in urban areas while it is also present in some rural areas of the country.
The presence of the group in Afghanistan is undeniable, but also limited. Nevertheless, since the beginning of its emergence, the ISKP threat has regularly been exaggerated by various politicians, security analysts and journalists. And it seems that after Baghdadi's recent video appearance, this trend is going to continue. Several observers claimed that the Daesh leader might hide himself in Afghanistan.
Atweetby Pakistani commentator Zaid Hamid went viral. Hamid addressed the furnishings that appeared in the video: "This is a grab from the latest video of ISIS [Daesh] leader Baghdadi. Note the style of the bedding & the pillows...Is he already in Afghanistan?" he wrote.
Many media outlets quoted Hamid's thoughts and retweeted by many figures from the Afghan Twitter bubble. At the same time, many people ignored the alleged analyst's problematic background. In fact, Hamid is a well-known conspiracy theorist famous for spreading fake news.
Several Afghanistan experts criticised the claims regarding Baghdadi's alleged Afghanistan hideout and especially the reckless use of problematic sources. "Haven't people learned anything? They retweet whatever nonsense they find on social media without checking the source," said Barnett Rubin, a senior Afghanistan expert who used to work with the UN and the US government. "I have just sent you proof that I am in Afghanistan with Baghdadi. Feel free to distribute or use to illustrate your article," he added ironically by sending a picture of himself wearing an Afghan ‘pakol’ hat while laying on a traditional Afghan mattress.
Rubin also hinted at other problematic statements made by Hamid. For example, the alleged analyst once also claimed that the Mumbai terrorist attacks from 2008 were a "Hindu-Zionist conspiracy".
Thomas Ruttig, a co-founder of the Afghanistan Analysts Network, agrees with Rubin. He also underlines the fact that similar rumours appeared in the recent past. "Repeatedly, there were reports, more likely rumours, about massive movements of IS fighters from Iraq and Syria to Afghanistan. However, I'm sceptical. My organisation followed such reports in Afghanistan, and it found barely something substantial," he said.
According to Ruttig, many similar reports are based on rumours about "mysterious fighters" who run around "wrapped up" and "never talk". Many people conclude that such figures must be Daesh fighters.
The Afghanistan expert is also sceptical about UN reports about this issue. "Often, they just echo the information of certain governments. Some of them, like Russia but also the Afghan government, want to exaggerate the IS [Daesh] threat for good reason", Ruttig said.
In recent years, Russia has regularly claimed that Daesh has become a significant threat in Afghanistan. In 2016, during the annual Munich Security Conference, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani said that Daesh in Afghanistan endangered the Western allies of his Kabul-based government and described the terrorist group as a "global threat".
Last but not least, the US government itself believes that its ‘War on Terror’ in Afghanistan might be extended for years due to Daesh. During the last few years, both the US military and the Afghan army have killed thousands of people who were alleged Daesh fighters.
The American fight against Daesh in Afghanistan reached a peak in April 2017 when the US military dropped the so called ‘Mother of All Bombs’, its biggest non-nuclear bomb, on Nangarhar's Achin district in the country’s east. Achin was known as one ofISKP's centres.
Until today, it is not really known who has been killed or injured by the bomb. When I visited Nangarhar in 2017, locals claimed that civilians had been killed.
Some reports suggested that militants were among the victims. Back then, Taliban fighters told me ISKP left the area before the bomb was dropped. Shortly after the detonation, the whole area was closed off by Afghan and American soldiers.
"It's the same after many other operations against IS [Daesh]. Often, civilians are being killed. But the government always claims that 'IS [Daesh] terrorists' were the sole victims," said Waheed Mozhdah, a political analyst from Kabul. "If we count all the thousands of dead bodies that have been declared as IS fighters by the Afghan Army or the Kabul government during the last years, I wonder against whom the troops are still fighting. IS [Daesh] has become very deadly, but it is still a small group," he said.

Title: Islamic State Bomber Kills 9 in Eastern Afghanistan
Print
A suicide blast has killed at least nine people and wounded 13 at a police checkpoint in eastern Afghanistan.
Provincial officials said security personnel and civilians are among the victims of the attack Thursday in Jalalabad, the capital of Nangarhar province that borders Pakistan.
A police spokesman told VOA a senior police commander was among those killed.
The local branch of Islamic State, known as Khorasan Province (ISKP), claimed responsibility for plotting the attack.
ISKP militants have strong bases in parts of Nangarhar and neighboring Kunar province, and they routinely carry out attacks against pro-government security forces, as well as Afghan civilians.
Loyalists of the Middle Eastern terrorist group also have taken responsibly for recent bombings in the Afghan capital, Kabul, that killed dozens of people.
Additionally, Taliban insurgents are active in the area.
A top American general said Wednesday that Islamic State in Afghanistan remains a threat to the United States.
"They are very worrisome to us" in their strongholds in eastern Afghanistan, said Marine General Frank McKenzie, who heads the U.S. Central Command.
He told reporters in Germany that combat operations have failed to reduce the group's fighting ranks and the extremist group "in Afghanistan certainly has aspirations to attack the United States."


Title: Afghans caught between rock and a hard place as ‘new Taliban’ rises | The National
RIGHT now I’m living in a city of walls and barriers. Concrete blast walls, razor wire, checkpoints and sandbagged emplacements. Never far away are the men with guns, be they soldiers, policemen, militiamen belonging to myriad warlords or those security guards tasked with protecting me in the compound where I stay. This is life in the Afghan capital of Kabul today.
All are testimony to the threat posed by both the Taliban and Afghanistan’s affiliate of the Islamic State (IS) group – the Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP), as they are known here.
Venturing on to Kabul’s streets to do my work as a journalist means needing to be constantly vigilant. Should I stop to take photographs or interview someone my “minder” is always nearby, watching every passing individual or vehicle that might pose a potential threat.
Kabul is a frontline, but it’s a strange kind of frontline. One that cannot be clearly recognised or demarcated and where the “enemy” sometimes lurks among the “ally”.
Only this week a major study published by the think tank Global Peace Index gave Afghanistan the dubious ranking of the world’s least peaceful country. It is now “the world’s most violent conflict with the highest number of deaths from war and terrorism”. It replaces Syria at the bottom of the index, which is now the second-least peaceful country in the world, followed by South Sudan, Yemen and Iraq.
While IS might have lost its caliphate in Syria and Iraq, now in the forbidding mountains of northeastern Afghanistan its affiliate ISKP is expanding its footprint, recruiting new fighters and plotting attacks on the United States and other Western countries, according to US and Afghan security officials.
Today, ISKP numbers thousands of fighters, many from Central Asia, but also from Arab countries, Chechnya, India and Bangladesh, as well as ethnic Uighurs from China. Only this past week one Afghan official predicted that the province in which he lives and works would soon replace the Middle East as IS’s centre of gravity.
“Right now in Kunar Province, the right side of the road is Taliban, the left side is Daesh, and the government is in the middle,” he said, referring to the group by its Arabic acronym. Indeed, such is the growing threat ISKP poses that some officials – both Afghan and international – now see the Taliban as a potential partner in containing them.
This might come as a surprise to many people unfamiliar with the current political climate in Afghanistan, but the reality here now also speaks of a Taliban keen to present itself as a different kind of entity.
While in the Gulf state of Qatar they engage in peace negotiations with the US, here on the ground they seem more determined to win the hearts and minds of locals in areas where they rule and prove themselves capable of playing a full role in Afghanistan’s governance.
Talk to many Afghans in Kabul and they will tell you that in shaping the country’s political future the Taliban simply cannot be ignored.
Sensing this, the Taliban is pulling out all the stops to reinvent themselves. Just a few days ago in a scene like something from a Tom Clancy spy thriller, my Afghan fixer arranged for me to talk by phone to leading Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahed.
Despite the Taliban’s more “accommodating” position these days, setting such things up is not easy. Fears on both sides of being tracked result in making such calls from anonymous locations, sometimes on the move in a vehicle, and the use of disposable SIM cards and “burner” mobile phones.
Among the questions I put to Zabiullah was whether the group was willing to share power in any future governance of Afghanistan. I asked him too whether the Taliban now saw ISKP as an ally or rival and a threat and possible hindrance to their peace negotiations with the US.
Canny and eloquent, he maintained that a full withdrawal of US-led international coalition troops remained a precondition for any willingness on the Taliban’s behalf to end its armed insurgency. Zabiullah made it unequivocally clear that already the Taliban were, in places, engaged in a turf war with ISKP, but insisted that they were a limited force and no threat to the Taliban.
Pushing him on this issue and what might happen if ISKP did become a major problem, he left little doubt that the Taliban would not allow their rival jihadists to undermine any future political plans they might have for power sharing in the country.
While negotiations between the US and the Taliban have right now momentarily stalled, it’s a measure of how determined the AfghanGovernmentare to keep the talks open that this week it freed hundreds of Taliban prisoners without conditions and expressed a willingness to free hundreds more.
This in itself is a big risk given that, historically, Taliban prisoners who have been freed from Afghan prisons have returned to the battlefield.
So far, the Taliban has not responded to the prisoner release, and has consistently labelled the “Kabul administration” as “impotent”, a “stooge” of the US and the West and other derogatory names – let alone negotiate with it.
But despite this, it’s hard not to see a significant shift slowly taking place in how the Taliban perceive their future political role in this long-suffering country. Challenging as the security situation remains, one can’t help but sense a flicker of hope here that after nearly four decades of fighting that started back in the 1980s when Afghanistan became embroiled in the war with the then Soviet Union, some semblance of peace might yet come about. There remain wild cards, of course, not least the growing violent presence of ISKP.
Speaking to ordinary Afghans I can’t help sense too the frustration they feel in being caught between a rock and a hard place, with the Taliban on one side and what many perceive as a corrupt government of elites and warlords on the other.
Perhaps sensing this, the Taliban will doubtless continue pressing home their case that they are fit and capable of helping govern Afghanistan. Only time will tell though whether indeed the “new” Taliban approach is just that or only a smokescreen for aims and outcomes that remain no different than before.
For the moment, Afghanistan’s population remains in the grip of war, and here in Kabul they will continue to live in a city of walls and barriers while foreigners like myself constantly look over our shoulders.
We know there are thousands of National readers who want to debate, argue and go back and forth in the comments section of our stories. We’ve got the most informed readers in Scotland, asking each other the big questions about the future of our country.
Unfortunately, though, these important debates are being spoiled by a vocal minority of trolls who aren’t really interested in the issues, try to derail the conversations, register under fake names, and post vile abuse.
So that’s why we’ve decided to make the ability to comment only available to our paying subscribers. That way, all the trolls who post abuse on our website will have to pay if they want to join the debate – and risk a permanent ban from the account that they subscribe with.
The conversation will go back to what it should be about – people who care passionately about the issues, but disagree constructively on what we should do about them. Let’s get that debate started!
Callum Baird, Editor of The National
We want our comments to be a lively and valuable part of our community - a place where readers can debate and engage with the most important local issues. The ability to comment on our stories is a privilege, not a right, however, and that privilege may be withdrawn if it is abused or misused.
Please report any comments that break our rules.
This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then pleasecontact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you cancontact IPSO here
© 2001-2024.Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callbackevent.
As a subscriber, you are shown80% lessdisplay advertising when reading our articles.
Those ads you do see are predominantly fromlocal businessespromotinglocal services.
These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – thelocal community.
It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.

Title: ZeroHedge 


Title: David Pratt: On the streets of Kabul, fear and optimism grip the city | The Herald
IN a week that saw Afghanistan replace Syria in rankings as the world’s least peaceful country, Foreign Editor David Pratt returns to the capital Kabul and reflects on the troubled times he has witnessed there and the mix of fear and optimism that now grips the city.
GUNS are as commonplace to the citizens of Kabul as pubs are to Glaswegians. I wish I could remember a time in the Afghan capital when it was not so, but I can’t.
Guns and those who carry and fire them have shaped this city for time immemorial long before I first came here back in the 1980’s and 90’s.
Only a few days ago while standing on the old tower platform that sits atop Koiatub mountain I watched as a group of Afghan children played on the iron barrels of the two ancient British 19th century cannons or “noon guns “ that sit there and once fired to let Kabulis know it was midday.
It was from this same position at the height of the civil war that gripped Kabul in the early 90’s that shells from tanks and other artillery wouldraindown on the civilian neighbourhoods below. Koiatub is just one of the mountains that flanks a strategic valley known as Shir Darwaza or Lion’s Gate guarding the southwestern approaches to Kabul.
Just like guns, lions too feature heavily in the lexicon of Afghan life. Ahmad Shah Massoud the Afghan politician, military commander and national hero to many Afghans whose face adorns everything from T-shirts to billboards here in Kabul, was dubbed the ‘Lion of the Panjshir,’ for his canny and ferocious defence of the valley of the same name against the Soviet Red Army in the 80’s.
It was Massoud of course that also fought the Taliban until his assassination two days before the 9/11 terrorist attacks on the United States.
The connection between the two events is not lost on analysts, for it appears that the 9/11 operation was the major terrorist attack which Massoud had warned against in his speech to the EuropeanParliamentseveral months earlier.
Many believe too that it was Osama bin Laden himself who ordered and organised Massoud’s assassination.
In doing so he would rob the anti-Taliban Northern Alliance forces - America's Afghan allies - of their most able commander. It also endeared bin Laden to the Taliban still further, making it impossible for Mullah Omar, the then regime's leader, to withdraw his protection.
But while the courageous symbol of the lion is used to characterise Massoud, another actual lion, Marjan, the most famous resident of Kabul Zoo is perhaps an equally, if very different, symbol of the conflicts that have held Afghanistan in their grip for so long.
Having survived wars, sieges, invasions and a grenade attack, it was back in 2002 that Marjan, the Lion of Kabul, finally succumbed to the one foe he could not beat: old age.
Marjan’s closest shave in his long and troubled life came when a Taliban fighter trying to prove his courage climbed into the lion’s enclosure. As lions are apt to do especially when hungry, Marjan pounced on the hapless man, and killed and ate him. The man's brother is said to have returned the next day and lobbed a grenade into the cage, blinding Marjan in one eye and leaving him lame.
I well recall back at the height of the 90’s civil war seeing Marjan in his compound and watching local children who had braved shell and gunfire to come and seen the legendary beast. Some would use small mirrors to reflect the sunlight onto Marjan’s face in the hope perhaps that the light might somehow restore the sight to the lion’s blinded eye.
Only Marjan’s keeper Sheraq Omar and his colleague Shah Barat, remain of the zoo’s staff from those dangerous days when it sat on the frontline between Kabul’s battling factions and warlords
“We would come every day even under gunfire to bring meat for Marjan and what other food we could get for the few surviving animals and later even the Taliban let us come,” Shah Barat told me last week as we stood reminiscing in front of the zoo’s jackal compound that he was tending.
Everywhere around us local families many with small children in tow wandered through the zoo’s refurbished grounds at the end of the Eid al-Fitr holiday.
Nearby also, two grey headed grumpy looking vultures perched in their cage shared the distinction like Shah Barat and myself of being surviving witnesses to what were some of the blackest and most violent times experienced in Kabul in the past decades. Everywhere in this city the past it seems collides with the present.
Not far from Kabul zoo sits the recently rebuilt Russian Centre of Science and Culture. Back during the 90’s civil war it’s bomb blasted ruins were an incredibly dangerous place and little more than a shooting gallery between two of the numerous former mujahideen factions vying for control of territory in Kabul.
With the Soviets by then gone and the collapse of Afghanistan’s communist government, the onetime resistance movement against the Russians had now turned on each other.
Nekrasov Viacheslav is the new director of the centre and veteran of the Soviet War sometimes referred to as “Russia’s Vietnam.”
“This is me, when I was an advisor here in Afghanistan in the 80’s,” Viacheslav tells me, pointing to the figure of a young man in a black and white photograph in which he is sporting a fur hat and the same Freddie Mercury style moustache back then as he does today.
“We worked closely with many Afghan communities sometimes in remote rural areas bringing health care and schools, I’ve been connected with Afghanistan ever since,” Viacheslav explains, as we wander past image after image from those times some showing young Russian soldiers high in the Hindu Kush mountains.
All the photographs, including portraits of former and current Russian ambassadors to Afghanistan and other memorabilia that lie on shelves, is part of a tiny museum tucked away in the Cultural Centre in Kabul’s Deh Mazang district and all but unknown to many Kabulis outside on the city’s streets and neighbourhoods.
Today Viacheslav, who once brought Russian student journalist delegations to conferences at StrathclydeUniversityinGlasgowalso brings veterans of the Soviet-Afghan war to the centre in Kabul where former Russian paratroopers have paid for and erected a memorial to all their comrades and Afghans killed in that bitter conflict.
“Today that war is behind us but not forgotten, and Afghanistan now faces other pressing and challenging times,” says Viacheslav as he we conclude our tour of the museum without another soul in sight.
It speaks volumes about those challenges the country currently faces that last week a major study published by the think-tank Global Peace Index, gave Afghanistan the dubious ranking of the world’s least peaceful country.
Officially Afghanistan is now the world’s most violent conflict with the highest number of deaths from war and terrorism, replacing Syria at the bottom of the index, which is now the second-least peaceful country in the world, followed by South Sudan, Yemen, and Iraq.
Venturing onto Kabul’s streets to do my work as a journalist means needing to be constantly vigilant. Should I stop to take photographs or interview someone my ‘minder’ is always nearby, watching every passing individual or vehicle that might pose a potential threat.
Kabul is a frontline, but it’s a strange kind of frontline. One that cannot be clearly demarcated and where the “enemy” sometimes lurks among the “ally.” Here in this city, streets become risks.
Decades of conflict and changing methods of warfare have shaped Kabul. Its diplomatic quarter lies within a comparatively secure “green zone” that has grown enormously to include all embassies, as well as the Nato and US military headquarters.
In the blue zone, traffic restrictions exist that now slowly encompasses much of the rest of the city centre and the airport. Some districts, streets and roads have been so exposed to bombings and other attacks that they have become notorious.
“We always try to avoid Wazir Akbar Khan, unless it’s absolutely necessary to pass through it,” warns my Afghan fixer speaking of the neighbourhood in northern Kabul that is home to many international diplomatic missions. For many foreign foreign workers here the journey to and from Kabul airport is only undertaken in an armoured vehicle.
Neighbourhoods are no longer only pummelled from the outside by rockets as they were in the 80’s and 90’s. Instead the war in the city has increasingly become a shadowy one that every so often leaps into full garish view because of suicide bombers and gunmen whose explosives seem to get bigger as foreigners retreat farther behind Kabul’s vast labyrinth of concrete blast walls.
Just last Thursday while conducting interviews in the backstreets of the city’s Puli Mahmood Khan district which has a high number of government buildings and security posts, I was urgently warned by one of my minders to get into our vehicle and leave the area immediately after he spotted two young men watching us intently while using their mobile phones.
While it could have meant nothing, it could just as easily have been spies of the Taliban or ISKP tipping off their operatives of our presence.
This is a very different kind of threat from the one I and others faced in the same district in the 90’s when the danger then was running the gauntlet of bullets, rockets and shells fired indiscriminately into civilian neighbourhoods.
Today largely because of security concerns and restrictions, parts of Kabul have become largely inaccessible for many ordinary Afghans.
It’s almost impossible too not to sense their deep frustration over this and being caught between the Taliban on one side and what many perceive as a corrupt government of elites and warlords on the other.
Founded in 2015 ArtLords is a group of mainly young Afghan artists and activists using street art to promote messages of hope and peace. Around the city they have transformed the negative psychological impact of blast walls on the people of Kabul into ‘positive visual experiences’ through large-scale mural paintings and other art work.
Many of their images are critical of the country’s elites and warlords as much as they are the Taliban. Unlike many ordinary citizens, Kabul’s elites live with the comparative protection of their secure compounds and private militias. Frequently the streets are often literally cleared of traffic for them to past through quickly in their armoured 4x4’s to avoid any potential threat from Taliban or ISKP insurgent attacks.
“It’s important to hold those responsible for eroding our rights to account and to let them know that ordinary people matter too,” says Omaid Sharifi who along with Kabir Mokamel is one of the founders of ArtLords.
Starting with an award-winning series of anti-corruption murals on prominent blast walls near government ministries, the paintings of eyes, accompanied by the slogan, ‘I See You’, were designed as a warning to corrupt officials.
In another series, ‘Heroes of my city’, ArtLords sought to celebrate everyday heroes such as municipal workers, teachers and nurses.
In Kabul such activism and artwork is of course not without considerable risk.
“I’ve had threats from both authority officials and the Taliban,” admits Sharifi whose work is otherwise highly respected among many in the city.
Sharifi’s work reflects what can only be a healthy sign among young Afghans and Kabulis, who seem determined to make their voices heard and are willing to question those who perpetrate much of the violence and oppression.
If there is cause for optimism right now in Afghanistan then this youthful passion and commitment towards making things better is it.
Revisiting Kabul I have many reasons to worry for the future of Afghanistan perhaps not the least of which is the growing threat from ISKP. Today, IS’s affiliate numbers thousands of fighters, many from Central Asia but also from Arab countries, Chechnya, India and Bangladesh, as well as ethnic Uighurs from China.
This past week one Afghan official even predicted that the province in which he lives and works would soon replace the Middle East as IS’s centre of gravity.
Given this the chances of a more intense turf war between the Taliban and ISKP is a real possibility.
On another wider level however as recent peace talks have shown, the Taliban simply cannot be ignored as part of the future political shaping and governance of Afghanistan. For now fear and optimism continue to strangely live side-by-side in Kabul.
Those with the guns still quite literally call the shots here. But more than ever there are those willing to jaw-jaw rather than war-war, and therein lies Afghanistan’s best hope for a peaceful future.
It should have been a safe space for informed debate, somewhere for readers to discuss issues around the biggest stories of the day, but all too often the below the line comments on most websites have become bogged down by off-topic discussions and abuse.
heraldscotland.com is tackling this problem by allowing only subscribers to comment.
We are doing this to improve the experience for our loyal readers and we believe it will reduce the ability of trolls and troublemakers, who occasionally find their way onto our site, to abuse our journalists and readers. We also hope it will help the comments section fulfil its promise as a part of Scotland's conversation with itself.
We are lucky at The Herald. We are read by an informed, educated readership who can add their knowledge and insights to our stories.
That is invaluable.
We are making the subscriber-only change to support our valued readers, who tell us they don't want the site cluttered up with irrelevant comments, untruths and abuse.
In the past, the journalist’s job was to collect and distribute information to the audience. Technology means that readers can shape a discussion. We look forward to hearing from you on heraldscotland.com
Readers’ comments: You are personally liable for the content of  any comments you upload to this website,  so please act responsibly. We do not  pre-moderate or monitor readers’ comments appearing on our websites, but we do post-moderate in response to complaints we receive or otherwise when a potential problem comes to  our attention.  You can make  a  complaint by using the ‘report this post’ link .  We may then apply our discretion under the user terms to amend or delete comments.
Post moderation is undertaken full-time 9am-6pm on weekdays, and on a part-time basis outwith those hours.
This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's
    Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to
    inaccuracy or intrusion, then pleasecontact the editor here.
    If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you cancontact IPSO here
© 2001-2024.Newsquest Media Group Ltd, 1st Floor, Chartist Tower, Upper Dock Street, Newport, Wales, NP20 1DW  | 01676637 |
Data returned from the Piano 'meterActive/meterExpired' callbackevent.
As a subscriber, you are shown80% lessdisplay advertising when reading our articles.
Those ads you do see are predominantly fromlocal businessespromotinglocal services.
These adverts enable local businesses to get in front of their target audience – thelocal community.
It is important that we continue to promote these adverts as our local businesses need as much support as possible during these challenging times.

Title: Islamic State Comes for South Asia – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
The Islamic State has completed its shift from Middle East to South Asia.
People protest against a recent attack on a Sufi shrine, in Peshawar, Pakistan, Feb. 17, 2017.
Last month, the Islamic State (IS)formally announced the creation ofwilayah(provinces) in Pakistan and India. The announcement was made by the Islamic State’s media front, the Amaq News Agency.
The two provinces have been carved out of the erstwhile Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP), which encompassed the Af-Pak border region. ISKP,which was founded in January 2015, months after IS had announced its so called caliphate in the Iraq and Levant, spearheaded all activity in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and was the source of IS-affiliated militant activity in India as well.
The two IS provinces in India and Pakistan were announced in the immediate aftermath of the group claiming responsibility forgun attacks on security forcesin Shopian district of Indian-administered Kashmir. During the same week, IS claimed a similar gun attack inMastungdistrict of Pakistan’s Balochistan province.
A month before the Islamic State’s creation of the Wilayah Pakistan, the groupbombed the Hazarjangi marketin Balochistan’s capital of Quetta, killing 20 people. April’s Quetta bombing targeted the Shia Hazara ethnic group, which, along with the local Christian community, has been regularly targeted by theIslamic State and its affiliates, in line with the ideological goal of purging religious minorities from areas it intends to occupy. Pakistan’s Hazara community has been the Islamic State’s most frequent targets, thanks to an almosttwo century-old history of violent persecutionin the region owing to their Shia identity, and easily identifiable physical features owing to theirUzbek and Turkicancestry.
The presence of already marginalized religious communities, coupled with Balochistan’s multipronged volatility – owing to aBaloch separatist movement,jihadist turf wars, and a continuum ofmilitary operations– makes the province the ideal ground for IS. After having beendriven out of the Middle East, it is in Balochistan that the Islamic State saw a pathway into South Asia.
While ISKPcontinued to target Afghanistan, after having formed its regional hub along the Af-Pak border, it has intermittently launched deadly attacks in Pakistan asreminders of its ambitionsin the region. These attacks included the deadliest massacres in the country since the creation of ISKP. In February 2017, 72 people were killed when theSehwan sufi shrinein Jamshoro District was bombed. Last year’sMastung bombing, in the lead up to the general elections, was the second deadliest attack in Pakistan’s history.
The growth of IS in Balochistan and Sindh has been monitored and reiterated by independent security analysts and militancy experts. However, the official position of the Pakistan Army has beencomplete denialof any IS presence in the country.
“They’ve brought their chapters into the al-Qaeda format, which has affiliates instead of a caliphate. They feel they will be able to generate human resource and form a network,” Muhammad Amir Rana, the director of Pak Institute for Peace Studies (PIPS) and author ofDynamics of Taliban Insurgency in FATA,toldThe Diplomat.
“However, the security forces are working on thwarting the threat posed by IS. NACTA [the National Counter Terrorism Authority] has formed a database for everyone who has returned from Iraq and Syria. Similarly, the entire focus of the CTDs [Counter Terror Departments] is on similar cells affiliated with IS and al-Qaeda,” Rana added.
Sources within the military reiterate that the attacks claimed by IS in Pakistan are carried out by their “foot soldiers” in the country. These local groups work under the umbrella of the Islamic State, which does not have operational capacity in the country. The most prominent among these is the Lashkar-e-Jhangvi (LeJ), whose al-Alami faction has forged analliance with the Islamic State.
“Most of the so called IS operatives in Balochistan are either affiliated with the LeJ or some faction of the Pakistani Taliban. All of them are local, and none from the Middle East. These groups, which have largely been decimated in Pakistan, are gravitating towards IS to keep themselves relevant,” a senior military official based in Balochistan toldThe Diplomat.
Last month, militants affiliated with the Islamic State and LeJ werearrestedin Dera Ghazi Khan and Sialkot. IS cells affiliated with Kashmir-bound Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD) have beenbusted in Punjabin the past. Similarly, IS affiliates have been arrested from Karachi’s Sakran and Manghopir area, underlining the group’s presence across the country.
Military officials maintain, off the record, that sympathizers for jihadist groups like the IS and LeJ are present within the Army. Pakistan Army Chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa has also conceded that somemilitary officers are facilitating attacksin Balochistan while speaking to Hazara protesters last year.
While officials maintain that jihad sympathizers in the Pakistan Army are a fringe group that is being tackled, there has been global concern over the militaryshielding jihadist groupsto advance their strategic goals in the region.
Beyond reiterations of this by international powers seeking to pressure Pakistan over its duplicitous security policies, this is also confessed byformer Army chiefsandspymasters. Given this, it seems likely that the Islamic State announcing provinces in Pakistan and India – two nuclear armed states, which were onthe brink of waras recently as February this year – will multiply the group’s potential threat even further.
In India, the Islamic State is eyeing a presence in Jammu and Kashmir, capitalizing on the existing separatist movement, which hasmorphed into jihad. Just like disintegrated jihadist groups in Balochistan, thestate-backed violence in Kashmiroffers the Islamic State a recruiting ground.
However, similar to Pakistan, the Indian security agencies are downplaying the IS threat.
“What we have in Kashmir is a few flags by some people who may be camp followers, sympathizers, admirers who romanticize medieval brutality. There is no network; no actual IS terrorist,” former chief of India’s intelligence agency, the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), Vikram Sood toldThe Diplomat.
“There are no liberated zones in Kashmir where they could have operated. The intelligence and SF network in Kashmir is very strong and effective as one can see from the numbers eliminated, giving them low shelf life,” he added.
While the Islamic State’s operational capacity might not rival what it had during its heyday in the Middle East, its ideological lure is visible across South Asia as the group orchestrates attacks across the region. This year’sEaster bombings in Sri Lanka, similar torecent attacks in Pakistan, underline that the Islamic State has completed its shift as an entity from the Middle East to South Asia.
“The Sri Lanka church bombings could have ripple effects in southern India and this would be a matter of some concern for the security agencies. There have been cases of persons going across from South India but limited in number. This is probably because of indoctrination in UAE or KSA [Saudi Arabia],” said Sood.
However, while India and Sri Lanka have witnessed gory manifestations of IS presence in the region, albeit with contrasting devastation, it is Pakistan where the group is looking to capitalize on a jihadist vacuum.
Lieutenant General Talat Masood, a former secretary at Pakistan’s Ministry of Defense Production, warned the Pakistani leadership against the perils of underplaying the Islamic State’s presence in the country.
“They might be downplaying the group’s foothold in the country owing to thecurrent economic situation, especially given the fact that there are threats of sanctions still looming over Pakistan,” he said, referring to terror watchdog Financial Action Task Force’s (FATF)warnings to Islamabad, indicating a potential blacklisting.
“But they must remember that it [the Islamic  State] is unlike any other group that has functioned in Pakistan in the past. It is the only group that has controlled any territory, and its ideological overreach remains unparalleled,” Masood added.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: The unholy threat from Daesh
Abu Bakar Al-Baghdadi, after the destruction of Iraq and Syria, is now looking towards Pakistan.According to reports, he has been relocated to Afghanistan by his handlers for this purpose. Baghdadi, whose Iraqi identity has never been confirmed and family background is also unknown, is regarded as the top agent of anti-Islam forces to harm the interests of Muslim countries through terrorism.The Islamic State-Khorasan Province (ISKP) first appeared in Afghanistan in 2014 but now boasts thousands of like-minded terrorists.Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov had revealed some time back that thousands of Daesh or IS terrorists were present in northern and eastern Afghan regions and were being joined by militants fleeing Syria and Iraq, introducing a new dimension of instability and chaos in the region.Daesh has carried out many attacks in KP and Balochistan provinces. The carnage in Mastung on July 13, 2018 with at least 150 deaths and scores of injuries had all the hallmarks of Daesh attack.In Sindh, it carried out an attack on the Sehwan shrine in 2017, which killed 90 people and injured more than 300.Many TTP elements have joined Daesh, which has mysterious sources of funding and offers lucrative terrorist ideology and careers. The survival of organizations like Daesh and TTP should be seen in the context of international and domestic environments as they are operated by inimical international players.They are used by foreign hostile agencies, which also exploit hired combatants and disaffected segments of society locally.How can Baghdadi be a global leader of Muslims, who are residing in 57countries with distinct cultures and ethnicities, political, social and religious ideologies?Observers say for Pakistan and other regional countries like Iran and Russia, Daesh is a greater threat than the Afghan Taliban because the former is ideologically and fundamentally expansionist in nature while the latter has never expressed its desire to operate in or influence other countries.The new National Internal Security Policy (NISP) recently approved by the last federal cabinet stated: “The emergence of Daesh in close proximity to Pakistan has raised new internal security challenges.The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots isnot a possibility to be ignored.This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
According to reports, he has been relocated to Afghanistan by his handlers for this purpose. Baghdadi, whose Iraqi identity has never been confirmed and family background is also unknown, is regarded as the top agent of anti-Islam forces to harm the interests of Muslim countries through terrorism.The Islamic State-Khorasan Province (ISKP) first appeared in Afghanistan in 2014 but now boasts thousands of like-minded terrorists.Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov had revealed some time back that thousands of Daesh or IS terrorists were present in northern and eastern Afghan regions and were being joined by militants fleeing Syria and Iraq, introducing a new dimension of instability and chaos in the region.Daesh has carried out many attacks in KP and Balochistan provinces. The carnage in Mastung on July 13, 2018 with at least 150 deaths and scores of injuries had all the hallmarks of Daesh attack.In Sindh, it carried out an attack on the Sehwan shrine in 2017, which killed 90 people and injured more than 300.Many TTP elements have joined Daesh, which has mysterious sources of funding and offers lucrative terrorist ideology and careers. The survival of organizations like Daesh and TTP should be seen in the context of international and domestic environments as they are operated by inimical international players.They are used by foreign hostile agencies, which also exploit hired combatants and disaffected segments of society locally.How can Baghdadi be a global leader of Muslims, who are residing in 57countries with distinct cultures and ethnicities, political, social and religious ideologies?Observers say for Pakistan and other regional countries like Iran and Russia, Daesh is a greater threat than the Afghan Taliban because the former is ideologically and fundamentally expansionist in nature while the latter has never expressed its desire to operate in or influence other countries.The new National Internal Security Policy (NISP) recently approved by the last federal cabinet stated: “The emergence of Daesh in close proximity to Pakistan has raised new internal security challenges.The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots isnot a possibility to be ignored.This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
The Islamic State-Khorasan Province (ISKP) first appeared in Afghanistan in 2014 but now boasts thousands of like-minded terrorists.Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov had revealed some time back that thousands of Daesh or IS terrorists were present in northern and eastern Afghan regions and were being joined by militants fleeing Syria and Iraq, introducing a new dimension of instability and chaos in the region.Daesh has carried out many attacks in KP and Balochistan provinces. The carnage in Mastung on July 13, 2018 with at least 150 deaths and scores of injuries had all the hallmarks of Daesh attack.In Sindh, it carried out an attack on the Sehwan shrine in 2017, which killed 90 people and injured more than 300.Many TTP elements have joined Daesh, which has mysterious sources of funding and offers lucrative terrorist ideology and careers. The survival of organizations like Daesh and TTP should be seen in the context of international and domestic environments as they are operated by inimical international players.They are used by foreign hostile agencies, which also exploit hired combatants and disaffected segments of society locally.How can Baghdadi be a global leader of Muslims, who are residing in 57countries with distinct cultures and ethnicities, political, social and religious ideologies?Observers say for Pakistan and other regional countries like Iran and Russia, Daesh is a greater threat than the Afghan Taliban because the former is ideologically and fundamentally expansionist in nature while the latter has never expressed its desire to operate in or influence other countries.The new National Internal Security Policy (NISP) recently approved by the last federal cabinet stated: “The emergence of Daesh in close proximity to Pakistan has raised new internal security challenges.The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots isnot a possibility to be ignored.This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov had revealed some time back that thousands of Daesh or IS terrorists were present in northern and eastern Afghan regions and were being joined by militants fleeing Syria and Iraq, introducing a new dimension of instability and chaos in the region.Daesh has carried out many attacks in KP and Balochistan provinces. The carnage in Mastung on July 13, 2018 with at least 150 deaths and scores of injuries had all the hallmarks of Daesh attack.In Sindh, it carried out an attack on the Sehwan shrine in 2017, which killed 90 people and injured more than 300.Many TTP elements have joined Daesh, which has mysterious sources of funding and offers lucrative terrorist ideology and careers. The survival of organizations like Daesh and TTP should be seen in the context of international and domestic environments as they are operated by inimical international players.They are used by foreign hostile agencies, which also exploit hired combatants and disaffected segments of society locally.How can Baghdadi be a global leader of Muslims, who are residing in 57countries with distinct cultures and ethnicities, political, social and religious ideologies?Observers say for Pakistan and other regional countries like Iran and Russia, Daesh is a greater threat than the Afghan Taliban because the former is ideologically and fundamentally expansionist in nature while the latter has never expressed its desire to operate in or influence other countries.The new National Internal Security Policy (NISP) recently approved by the last federal cabinet stated: “The emergence of Daesh in close proximity to Pakistan has raised new internal security challenges.The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots isnot a possibility to be ignored.This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
Daesh has carried out many attacks in KP and Balochistan provinces. The carnage in Mastung on July 13, 2018 with at least 150 deaths and scores of injuries had all the hallmarks of Daesh attack.In Sindh, it carried out an attack on the Sehwan shrine in 2017, which killed 90 people and injured more than 300.Many TTP elements have joined Daesh, which has mysterious sources of funding and offers lucrative terrorist ideology and careers. The survival of organizations like Daesh and TTP should be seen in the context of international and domestic environments as they are operated by inimical international players.They are used by foreign hostile agencies, which also exploit hired combatants and disaffected segments of society locally.How can Baghdadi be a global leader of Muslims, who are residing in 57countries with distinct cultures and ethnicities, political, social and religious ideologies?Observers say for Pakistan and other regional countries like Iran and Russia, Daesh is a greater threat than the Afghan Taliban because the former is ideologically and fundamentally expansionist in nature while the latter has never expressed its desire to operate in or influence other countries.The new National Internal Security Policy (NISP) recently approved by the last federal cabinet stated: “The emergence of Daesh in close proximity to Pakistan has raised new internal security challenges.The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots isnot a possibility to be ignored.This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
In Sindh, it carried out an attack on the Sehwan shrine in 2017, which killed 90 people and injured more than 300.Many TTP elements have joined Daesh, which has mysterious sources of funding and offers lucrative terrorist ideology and careers. The survival of organizations like Daesh and TTP should be seen in the context of international and domestic environments as they are operated by inimical international players.They are used by foreign hostile agencies, which also exploit hired combatants and disaffected segments of society locally.How can Baghdadi be a global leader of Muslims, who are residing in 57countries with distinct cultures and ethnicities, political, social and religious ideologies?Observers say for Pakistan and other regional countries like Iran and Russia, Daesh is a greater threat than the Afghan Taliban because the former is ideologically and fundamentally expansionist in nature while the latter has never expressed its desire to operate in or influence other countries.The new National Internal Security Policy (NISP) recently approved by the last federal cabinet stated: “The emergence of Daesh in close proximity to Pakistan has raised new internal security challenges.The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots isnot a possibility to be ignored.This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
Many TTP elements have joined Daesh, which has mysterious sources of funding and offers lucrative terrorist ideology and careers. The survival of organizations like Daesh and TTP should be seen in the context of international and domestic environments as they are operated by inimical international players.They are used by foreign hostile agencies, which also exploit hired combatants and disaffected segments of society locally.How can Baghdadi be a global leader of Muslims, who are residing in 57countries with distinct cultures and ethnicities, political, social and religious ideologies?Observers say for Pakistan and other regional countries like Iran and Russia, Daesh is a greater threat than the Afghan Taliban because the former is ideologically and fundamentally expansionist in nature while the latter has never expressed its desire to operate in or influence other countries.The new National Internal Security Policy (NISP) recently approved by the last federal cabinet stated: “The emergence of Daesh in close proximity to Pakistan has raised new internal security challenges.The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots isnot a possibility to be ignored.This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
They are used by foreign hostile agencies, which also exploit hired combatants and disaffected segments of society locally.How can Baghdadi be a global leader of Muslims, who are residing in 57countries with distinct cultures and ethnicities, political, social and religious ideologies?Observers say for Pakistan and other regional countries like Iran and Russia, Daesh is a greater threat than the Afghan Taliban because the former is ideologically and fundamentally expansionist in nature while the latter has never expressed its desire to operate in or influence other countries.The new National Internal Security Policy (NISP) recently approved by the last federal cabinet stated: “The emergence of Daesh in close proximity to Pakistan has raised new internal security challenges.The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots isnot a possibility to be ignored.This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
How can Baghdadi be a global leader of Muslims, who are residing in 57countries with distinct cultures and ethnicities, political, social and religious ideologies?Observers say for Pakistan and other regional countries like Iran and Russia, Daesh is a greater threat than the Afghan Taliban because the former is ideologically and fundamentally expansionist in nature while the latter has never expressed its desire to operate in or influence other countries.The new National Internal Security Policy (NISP) recently approved by the last federal cabinet stated: “The emergence of Daesh in close proximity to Pakistan has raised new internal security challenges.The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots isnot a possibility to be ignored.This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
countries with distinct cultures and ethnicities, political, social and religious ideologies?Observers say for Pakistan and other regional countries like Iran and Russia, Daesh is a greater threat than the Afghan Taliban because the former is ideologically and fundamentally expansionist in nature while the latter has never expressed its desire to operate in or influence other countries.The new National Internal Security Policy (NISP) recently approved by the last federal cabinet stated: “The emergence of Daesh in close proximity to Pakistan has raised new internal security challenges.The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots isnot a possibility to be ignored.This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
Observers say for Pakistan and other regional countries like Iran and Russia, Daesh is a greater threat than the Afghan Taliban because the former is ideologically and fundamentally expansionist in nature while the latter has never expressed its desire to operate in or influence other countries.The new National Internal Security Policy (NISP) recently approved by the last federal cabinet stated: “The emergence of Daesh in close proximity to Pakistan has raised new internal security challenges.The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots isnot a possibility to be ignored.This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
The new National Internal Security Policy (NISP) recently approved by the last federal cabinet stated: “The emergence of Daesh in close proximity to Pakistan has raised new internal security challenges.The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots isnot a possibility to be ignored.This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots isnot a possibility to be ignored.This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
not a possibility to be ignored.This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
FIR lodged by Hadyara Station House Officer Hamas Hameed includes sections of terrorism and attempted murder
Current Japanese Constitution came into effect on May 3, 1947
KP would have a serious and negative impact on the rest of the country and if the provincial government did not...
Akbar S Babar said verdict relied heavily on self-serving concept of ‘complete justice’ to justify relief provided...
Convoy of more than 10 foreign ambassadors was passing through picturesque town of Malam Jabba in Swat district when...
Daniyal Chaudhary said that Zionist lobbies believe that Imran Khan and his party could represent Israel in Islamic...
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: The unholy threat from Daesh
Abu Bakar Al-Baghdadi, after the destruction of Iraq and Syria, is now looking towards Pakistan. According to reports, he has been relocated to Afghanistan by his handlers for this purpose. Baghdadi, whose Iraqi identity has never been confirmed and family background is also unknown, is regarded asthe top agent of anti-Islam forces to harm the interests of Muslim countries through terrorism.The Islamic State-Khorasan Province (ISKP) first appeared in Afghanistan in 2014 but now boasts thousands of like-minded terrorists. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov had revealed some time back that thousands of Daesh or IS terrorists were present in northern and eastern Afghan regions and were being joined by militants fleeing Syria and Iraq, introducing a new dimension of instability and chaos in the region.Daesh has carried out many attacks in KP and Balochistan provinces. The carnage in Mastung on July 13, 2018 with at least 150 deaths and scores of injuries had all the hallmarks of Daesh attack. In Sindh, it carried out an attack on the Sehwan shrine in 2017, which killed 90 people and injured more than 300.Many TTP elements have joined Daesh, which has mysterious sources of funding and offers lucrative terrorist ideology and careers. The survival of organizations like Daesh and TTP should be seen in the context of international and domestic environments as they are operated by inimical international players. They are used by foreign hostile agencies, which also exploit hired combatants and disaffected segments of society locally.How can Baghdadi be a global leader of Muslims, who are residing in 57 countries with distinct cultures and ethnicities, political, social and religious ideologies?Observers say for Pakistan and other regional countries like Iran and Russia, Daesh is a greater threat than the Afghan Taliban because the former is ideologically and fundamentally expansionist in nature while the latter has never expressed its desire to operate in or influence other countries.The new National Internal Security Policy (NISP) recently approved by the last federal cabinet stated: “The emergence of Daesh in close proximity to Pakistan has raised new internal security challenges. The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots is not a possibility to be ignored. This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
the top agent of anti-Islam forces to harm the interests of Muslim countries through terrorism.The Islamic State-Khorasan Province (ISKP) first appeared in Afghanistan in 2014 but now boasts thousands of like-minded terrorists. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov had revealed some time back that thousands of Daesh or IS terrorists were present in northern and eastern Afghan regions and were being joined by militants fleeing Syria and Iraq, introducing a new dimension of instability and chaos in the region.Daesh has carried out many attacks in KP and Balochistan provinces. The carnage in Mastung on July 13, 2018 with at least 150 deaths and scores of injuries had all the hallmarks of Daesh attack. In Sindh, it carried out an attack on the Sehwan shrine in 2017, which killed 90 people and injured more than 300.Many TTP elements have joined Daesh, which has mysterious sources of funding and offers lucrative terrorist ideology and careers. The survival of organizations like Daesh and TTP should be seen in the context of international and domestic environments as they are operated by inimical international players. They are used by foreign hostile agencies, which also exploit hired combatants and disaffected segments of society locally.How can Baghdadi be a global leader of Muslims, who are residing in 57 countries with distinct cultures and ethnicities, political, social and religious ideologies?Observers say for Pakistan and other regional countries like Iran and Russia, Daesh is a greater threat than the Afghan Taliban because the former is ideologically and fundamentally expansionist in nature while the latter has never expressed its desire to operate in or influence other countries.The new National Internal Security Policy (NISP) recently approved by the last federal cabinet stated: “The emergence of Daesh in close proximity to Pakistan has raised new internal security challenges. The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots is not a possibility to be ignored. This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
The Islamic State-Khorasan Province (ISKP) first appeared in Afghanistan in 2014 but now boasts thousands of like-minded terrorists. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov had revealed some time back that thousands of Daesh or IS terrorists were present in northern and eastern Afghan regions and were being joined by militants fleeing Syria and Iraq, introducing a new dimension of instability and chaos in the region.Daesh has carried out many attacks in KP and Balochistan provinces. The carnage in Mastung on July 13, 2018 with at least 150 deaths and scores of injuries had all the hallmarks of Daesh attack. In Sindh, it carried out an attack on the Sehwan shrine in 2017, which killed 90 people and injured more than 300.Many TTP elements have joined Daesh, which has mysterious sources of funding and offers lucrative terrorist ideology and careers. The survival of organizations like Daesh and TTP should be seen in the context of international and domestic environments as they are operated by inimical international players. They are used by foreign hostile agencies, which also exploit hired combatants and disaffected segments of society locally.How can Baghdadi be a global leader of Muslims, who are residing in 57 countries with distinct cultures and ethnicities, political, social and religious ideologies?Observers say for Pakistan and other regional countries like Iran and Russia, Daesh is a greater threat than the Afghan Taliban because the former is ideologically and fundamentally expansionist in nature while the latter has never expressed its desire to operate in or influence other countries.The new National Internal Security Policy (NISP) recently approved by the last federal cabinet stated: “The emergence of Daesh in close proximity to Pakistan has raised new internal security challenges. The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots is not a possibility to be ignored. This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
Daesh has carried out many attacks in KP and Balochistan provinces. The carnage in Mastung on July 13, 2018 with at least 150 deaths and scores of injuries had all the hallmarks of Daesh attack. In Sindh, it carried out an attack on the Sehwan shrine in 2017, which killed 90 people and injured more than 300.Many TTP elements have joined Daesh, which has mysterious sources of funding and offers lucrative terrorist ideology and careers. The survival of organizations like Daesh and TTP should be seen in the context of international and domestic environments as they are operated by inimical international players. They are used by foreign hostile agencies, which also exploit hired combatants and disaffected segments of society locally.How can Baghdadi be a global leader of Muslims, who are residing in 57 countries with distinct cultures and ethnicities, political, social and religious ideologies?Observers say for Pakistan and other regional countries like Iran and Russia, Daesh is a greater threat than the Afghan Taliban because the former is ideologically and fundamentally expansionist in nature while the latter has never expressed its desire to operate in or influence other countries.The new National Internal Security Policy (NISP) recently approved by the last federal cabinet stated: “The emergence of Daesh in close proximity to Pakistan has raised new internal security challenges. The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots is not a possibility to be ignored. This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
Many TTP elements have joined Daesh, which has mysterious sources of funding and offers lucrative terrorist ideology and careers. The survival of organizations like Daesh and TTP should be seen in the context of international and domestic environments as they are operated by inimical international players. They are used by foreign hostile agencies, which also exploit hired combatants and disaffected segments of society locally.How can Baghdadi be a global leader of Muslims, who are residing in 57 countries with distinct cultures and ethnicities, political, social and religious ideologies?Observers say for Pakistan and other regional countries like Iran and Russia, Daesh is a greater threat than the Afghan Taliban because the former is ideologically and fundamentally expansionist in nature while the latter has never expressed its desire to operate in or influence other countries.The new National Internal Security Policy (NISP) recently approved by the last federal cabinet stated: “The emergence of Daesh in close proximity to Pakistan has raised new internal security challenges. The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots is not a possibility to be ignored. This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
How can Baghdadi be a global leader of Muslims, who are residing in 57 countries with distinct cultures and ethnicities, political, social and religious ideologies?Observers say for Pakistan and other regional countries like Iran and Russia, Daesh is a greater threat than the Afghan Taliban because the former is ideologically and fundamentally expansionist in nature while the latter has never expressed its desire to operate in or influence other countries.The new National Internal Security Policy (NISP) recently approved by the last federal cabinet stated: “The emergence of Daesh in close proximity to Pakistan has raised new internal security challenges. The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots is not a possibility to be ignored. This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
Observers say for Pakistan and other regional countries like Iran and Russia, Daesh is a greater threat than the Afghan Taliban because the former is ideologically and fundamentally expansionist in nature while the latter has never expressed its desire to operate in or influence other countries.The new National Internal Security Policy (NISP) recently approved by the last federal cabinet stated: “The emergence of Daesh in close proximity to Pakistan has raised new internal security challenges. The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots is not a possibility to be ignored. This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
The new National Internal Security Policy (NISP) recently approved by the last federal cabinet stated: “The emergence of Daesh in close proximity to Pakistan has raised new internal security challenges. The potential for spill over in Pakistan with the support and collaboration of TTP and its offshoots is not a possibility to be ignored. This situation has been compounded by the return of battle-hardened militants from Syria and Iraq.”In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
In Pakistan, renowned Muftis and leading Ulema have put full trust in the government and armed forces by issuing a consensus Fatwa, the Paigham-e-Pakistan, to refute the extremist ideologies and terrorist outfits like Daesh. According to this Fatwa, the state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and Jihad in the country.The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
The security forces are working to eliminate and root out terrorists, their facilitators and supporters throughout the country. These terrorists – who have turned into a coalition of sub-nationalist, criminal, sectarian, anti-state forces – are being used by anti-Pakistan forces in the geo-political proxy war that the country is facing from both eastern and western borders. It is imperative for all to reject the deception of Baghdadi and Daesh and all Pakistanis should offer full support to security forces to eliminate the terrorist group from Pakistan.
FIR lodged by Hadyara Station House Officer Hamas Hameed includes sections of terrorism and attempted murder
Current Japanese Constitution came into effect on May 3, 1947
KP would have a serious and negative impact on the rest of the country and if the provincial government did not...
Akbar S Babar said verdict relied heavily on self-serving concept of ‘complete justice’ to justify relief provided...
Convoy of more than 10 foreign ambassadors was passing through picturesque town of Malam Jabba in Swat district when...
Daniyal Chaudhary said that Zionist lobbies believe that Imran Khan and his party could represent Israel in Islamic...
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: Bus bomb kills at least five in Afghan capital | World News - The Indian Express
A magnetic bomb blew up a bus carrying government employees in the Afghan capital on Monday, killing at least five people and wounding 10 in a ball of flame, officials said.
The explosion, the latest in a series of bomb blasts to hit Kabul in recent days, came with the city under tight security ahead of this week’s Eid-ul Fitr holiday ending the Muslim holy month of Ramadan.
Interior Ministry spokesman Nasrat Rahimi said the bus was carrying employees of the Independent Administrative Reform and Civil Service Commission when the bomb exploded, enveloping the bus in flames and thick black smoke.
There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack, which came only hours after the interior ministry briefed media on security measures in large cities, especially in Kabul, ahead of Eid.
On Sunday, two people were killed and 24 wounded by bombs targeting a bus carrying university students in Kabul. The blasts were claimed by Islamic State militant group.
Sanjeev Kumar, a talented actor, had a passion for food and even rented a house to satisfy his love for non-vegetarian dishes. Fellow actors Shammi Kapoor, Shatrughan Sinha, and Randhir Kapoor would often join him for late-night feasts. Sachin Pilgaonkar revealed this in a recent interview, highlighting Sanjeev's love for food and his bond with his colleagues.



Title: Ramadan 2019 Deadlier than 2018: Taliban Main Driver Behind Attacks
Predominantly Sunni jihadi groups carried out 187 terrorist attacks across nearly 30 countries on Ramadan this year, driving the number of fatalities up to 911 and injuries to 1,006 when compared to the casualties during the holiest month for Muslims in 2018, a Breitbart News database analysis shows.
The number of deaths went up by about ten percent, from 841 last year to 911 in 2019. The overall number of casualties, including injuries, slightly increased by less than five percent from 1,855 (841 killed; 1,014 injured) to 1,917 (911 killed; 1,006 injured) in 2019.

During the month of Ramadan in each of last three years — 2017 (1,639), 2018 (841), and 2019 (911) – jihadi organizations and other Islamists have killed 3,391 civilians and troops.
Despite the ongoing peace negotiations with the United States, the Taliban remained the most prolific and bloodiest terrorist group this year, surpassing the brutality of the weakened Islamic State (ISIS/ISIL).

Afghan Taliban narco-jihadisdeclineda repeat of the unprecedented Eid ceasefire last year, offered by the U.S.-backed president of war-plagued Afghanistan.
The Taliban carried out 75 attacks during the holy month, leaving behind 369 fatalities and 389 injuries in its path. That means the narco-terrorist group is responsible for slightly over 40 percent of all deaths. Afghan Taliban terrorists are responsible for about four out of every ten casualties that took place during Ramadan this year, including injuries, a rate the echoes the one from last year.
Even after the complete defeat of ISIS’s territorial caliphate in March, the group continues towreak havoc. U.S. intelligence and military officials have repeatedly warned the group remains adeadlymenace.
During Ramadan, ISIS went as far as burning the harvest of some of its victims in Iraq — something that had not happened often since the group rose to power around 2014, if at all.
ISIS jihadis, including its Nigeria-basedBoko Haramoffshoot, closely trailed the Taliban with 60 attacks that killed 292 people and wounded 371 others, with nearly half of the assaults in its home base of Iraq (24 attacks) and Syria (4).
Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration continues tofalsely claimit has defeated Boko Haram, attributing all Boko Haram attacks to the Islamic State as a separate group. In 2016, the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) allegedly broke away from Boko Haram in 2016 over leadership, but it has never been clear that ISWAP members were different individuals than those in the original Boko Haram.
Both theTalibanand, to a much lesser extent, itsISISrivals made Afghanistan the most dangerous Muslim country during Ramadan, when most Muslims abstain from eating, drinking, smoking, having sex, and other physical needs each day, starting from before the break of dawn until sunset.
Islamists and jihadi groups like the Taliban and ISISperceiveRamadan as a time when martyrdom and jihad are exceptionally rewarded in paradise, prompting a spike in the terrorist attacks during the period every year.
Predominantly Taliban terrorists killed 403 people and injured 512 others during the holy period in Afghanistan, home to nearly half of all casualties during the holy month.
Nigeria (130 deaths; 46 injuries) and Iraq (95 deaths; 152 injuries) were the second and third deadliest countries during Ramadan.

Consistent with last year’s rate, Breitbart News linked slightly over 30 percent of all deaths to ISIS. When taking injuries into account, ISIS is responsible for about 35 percent of all casualties.
Africa houses most of the 27 countries impacted by the Ramadan terrorist attacks. Consistent with the last two years, the vast majority of victims are Muslims.
Ramadan this year began at sunset on May 5 and ended on June 4 with many Muslim countries celebrating the Eid al-Fitr (“festival of breaking the fast”) holiday that marks the end of the holy period the following day.
The end of Ramadan was not withoutcontroversythis year. Shiite powerhouse Iran (June 5) and its regional foe and Sunni leader Saudi Arabia (June 4) reportedly disagreed on the start of Eid.
Breitbart News’ tally covers the 30-day period between May 6 and June 4.
Last year, Breitbart News determined that the near defeat of ISIS’s so-called caliphate nearlycutthe number of Ramadan fatalities in half, from 1,639 in 2017 to 841 last year.
The 2019 holy month death toll marked an increase from last year, though, fueled by Afghan Taliban terrorist activities.
Breitbart News was unable to determine who was behind 31 attacks that left behind 96 people dead and 138 wounded. That amounts to slightly over ten percent of all casualties.
Under the “others” category in the tally broken down by terrorist group, Breitbart News placed eight attacks (113 killed, 42 injured), including two by the only Shiite terrorist groups included in the count — Iran’s narco-terrorist proxy Hezbollah (one killed) and Tehran-allied Houthi rebels (ten killed) – in Yemen. The “others” category also includes two attacks by Fulani herdsmen jihadis, known to target Christians in and around Nigeria, one assault by Hizbul Mujahideen (one killed) in Indian-administered Kashmir, and three attacks by Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) jihadis (21 killed, 42 wounded).
Jihadis from the Pakistani Taliban consider themselves to belong to adistinctorganization from their Afghan counterparts, with different goals and leaders.
Al-Qaeda, including its Somali andSyrianaffiliates, killed (41) and injured (66) the least amount of people when compared to other prominent jihadi groups.
Breitbart News primarily gleans the figures for its Ramadan death count from the Religion of Peacewebsite, news articles, and government reports. The reports do not always discern between civilian and military troops casualties.
The Turkish state-run Anadolu Agency (AA) determined that the Taliban killed 200 civilians and wounded more than 300 others during Ramadan. That means civilians made up about 50 percent of all fatalities and deaths during what it is supposed to be the holiest period for Muslims.
Breitbart News counted some (21) of the very few kidnappings included in the database as injuries.
The total number of fatalities will likely increase after this report is published after some of the victims succumb to their injuries, changing the number of injuries as well.Breitbart News has documented the following attacks during Ramadan:
May 6 —North Waziristan, Pakistan— Suspected Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) jihadiskillfour security forces, injure ten others.
May 6 —Kirkuk, Iraq— Suspected ISIS killthreepolice officers, wound one other.
May 6 —Takhar, Afghanistan— Talibankillseight security force members.
May 6 —Farah, Afghanistan— Talibanstormsarmy checkpoint, killing 20, abducting two.
May 7 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haram razes homes and businesses in Molai village,killing11, including four soldiers, and woundinganother12.
May 7 —Pendjari National Park, Benin— Unknown jihadis from neighboring Burkina Faso kidnap two French tourists across the border in Benin andkilltheir guide in the Pendjari National Park that straddles both countries.
May 7 —Yatenga, Burkina Faso— Suspected al-Qaeda jihadiskilltoll booth operator and wound two others in the provincial capital of Ouahigouya.
May 7 —Laghman, Afghanistan— Taliban-linked bomb blastkillsfour police officers, including chief, and wounds four others.
May 7 —Salahuddin, Iraq— Suspected ISIS terrorists attack police officer’s house in the village of Mazarei,killingthree and wounding five others.
May 8 —Nineveh, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadiskillfive family members and wound two others inside their home in the Hammam al-Alil area south of Mosul.
May 8 —Diyala, Iraq— Bomb attack linked to suspected ISIS terroristwoundstwo members of the Baghdad-sanctioned Popular Mobilization Forces (PMF).
May 8 —Manbij, Syria— Suspected ISIS terroriststargetthe U.S.-backed and Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) in Aleppo province,killingtwo and injuring four others, including at least onechild.
May 8 —Manbij, Syria— Suspected ISIS bombattackkills three civilians in Aleppo province, reportedly allchildren.
May 8 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Taliban attacks U.S. aid group,killingnine,wounding24 others.
May 8 —Punjab, Pakistan— TTP attacks pilgrims at an 11th-century Sufi shrine in Lahore,killingat least 13, including at least one child, and injuring 21 others.
May 8 —Ghazni, Afghanistan— Taliban ambushes military convoy in the Qarabagh district,killingthree police officers and wounding two others.
May 9 —Wajir, Kenya— Al-Qaeda’s East Africa affiliate al-Shabaab claims attack on security forces near the border with Somalia,killingat least one soldier.
May 9 —Saladin, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadis target grain silo in the town of Shirqat,killingone guard.
May 9 —Nineveh, Iraq— ISISkillsa family of eight in Mosul, including the couple and their six children.
May 9 —Fezzan, Libya— SuspectedISISjihadiskilltwo and kidnapped a third person from the town of Ghadduwah.
May 9 —Baghdad, Iraq— ISIS suicide bomberkillseight, wounds 15 others as they broke their Ramadan fast at the Jamila market.
May 10 —Mopti, Mali— Suspected al-Qaeda jihadiskillfour civilians, wound two others at the market in the town of Bandiagara.
May 10 —Badghis, Afghanistan— Taliban targets two outposts,killing25 security personnel and wounding 11 others in Bala Murghab district.
May 10 —Borno, Nigeria— ISIS West Africakills11 troops in the town of Gajiganna.
May 10 —Bari, Somalia—SuspectedISISwoundstenin a failed assassination attempt against a local judge in the port city of Bosaso.
May 10 —Balkh, Afghanistan— Taliban attacks army outpost in Balkh District, killing one local police officer and wounding four soldiers and a police officer.
May 11 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haramattacksthe Moranti village near Maiduguri, leaving nine dead, at least one wounded, and four missings.
May 11 —Baghdad, Iraq— Suspected ISIS-linked bomb blastkillsone child, wounds two others in the Jisr Diyala neighborhood located in the southern part of the capital.
May 11 —Nangarhar, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban terroristskilldeputy intelligence director for the Afghan National Police (ANP) in the Kama district.
May 11 —Takhar, Afghanistan —Talibankillsfour police officers and wounds five others in a security outpost in Khwaja Ghar District.
May 11 —Sar-i-Pul,Afghanistan— Talibankillsone police officer in Sancharak District,
May 11 —Nangarhar, Afghanistan— Taliban ambushes andkillsa police officer as he drove home in the Kama District.
May 11 —Samangan, Afghanistan— Taliban narco-jihadiskillthree pro-Kabul militiamen in Khuram Ao Sarbagh district.
May 11 —Samangan, Afghanistan— Taliban rocket attackkillsfive civilians, including women, and wounds ten others in Dara-i-Suf Payan district.
May 12 —Mogadishu, Somalia—Al-ShabaabkillsTurkish civil engineer.
May 12 —Baghlan, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban jihadiskillprovince’s deputy intelligence director and injure an intelligence officer in the Dushi district.
May 12 —Hama, Syria— Suspected former al-Qaeda affiliate Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS)firesa rocket into Christian-majority town of Suqaylabiyah, killing five, including four children and a woman, and injuring six other children.
May 12 —Sanmatenga, Burkina Faso— Unknown jihadis attack Catholic church, set it ablaze, andkillsix, including the priest.
May 12 —Paktika, Afghanistan— Hundreds of Taliban jihadis storm outposts in the districts of Mata Khan and Zurmat,killing13 police officers and wounding 19 others.
May 12 —Wardak, Afghanistan— Taliban targets members of the Shiite Hazara community in the Hesa-e-Dowom-e-Behsod district,leaving5 civilians dead, 12 others wounded, and five missings.
May 13 —Baghlan, Afghanistan— Suspected Talibanshootsteacher in Nahren district.
May 13 —Borno, Nigeria— Improvised explosive device (IED) planted by Boko Haram on a road in Damboa district killed three Nigerian troops, including a commander, and wounded four others.
May 13 —Nangarhar, Afghanistan— ISIS carries out three explosions in its main South Asia stronghold that rocked the provincial capital of Jalalabad,killing9 and wounding more than 30 others.
May 13 —Diyala, Iraq— ISISkillsfather and son.
May 13 —Balochistan, Pakistan— Pakistani Taliban, or TTP, targeted a police vehicle near a mosque with an improvised bomb rigged to a motorcycle,killingfour and wounding 11 in the provincial capital of Quetta.
May 13 —Hama, Syria— Al-Qaeda affiliateHTSsuspected of firing more rockets into Christian-majority town of Suqaylabiyah,killingone child and injuring at least two civilians.
May 13 —Yatenga, Burkina Faso— Unknown jihadiskilledfour Catholics, burned Virgin Mary during a procession in the town ofOuahigouyain the Muslim-majority nation.
May 13 —Sar-i-Pul, Afghanistan— Talibankillsseven pro-Kabul militiamen, wounds six, and kidnaps three others in the provincial capital of Sar-i-Pul city.
May 13 —Badakhshan, Afghanistan— Talibankillsfour Afghan National Defense and Security (ANDSF) troops, including commander, and wounds one other in  Shahri Buzurg district.
May 14 —Nayrab Camp, Syria— Suspected members of al-Qaeda affiliate HTS lobbed missiles into a Syrian-regime held camp for displaced people in Aleppo province,killingat least 6 andwoundingat least 11 others, includingchildren, as they broke their Ramadan fast.
May 14 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Improvised explosive device (IED) attached to a vehiclekilleda police officer in the Taliban birthplace and wounded another.
May 14 —Baghlan, Afghanistan— Unknown terrorists attached IED to a vehicle,killingone civilian and wounding three others.
May 14 —Jowzjan, Afghanistan— Talibankillsone pro-government militiaman and wounds six others in Qarqin district.
May 14 —Tillaberi, Niger– ISISkills28 soldiers andwoundsat least two near the Mali border.
May 14 —Ghor, Afghanistan— Talibankillsshopkeeper inDolina district.
May 14 —Mogadishu, Somalia— Al-Shabaab suicide bomberkillsfour office workers and injures at least nine other civilians in the Warta Nabadda district.
May 15 —Paktia, Afghanistan— TalibankillsANDSF soldier and wounds two others.
May 15 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Unknown terrorists in the Taliban birthplace of Kandahar provincekilla police officer in charge of the provincial capital.
May 15 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISISkillstwo policemen and wounds another in the town of al-Rashad.
May 15 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISISkillsfour federal policemen near the town of Hawijah.
May 15 —Punjab, Pakistan— Islamist mobinjuresat least sevenChristianmen over blasphemy allegations in theArifwalaregion of Pakpattan district.
May 16 —Zabul, Afghanistan— Talibankillssix ANDSF troops and wounds six others in attacks on two military checkpoints in Shamulzayi district.
May 16 —Zabul, Afghanistan— Talibankillsthree police officers, wounds two others in the provincial capital.
May 16 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Unknown jihadiskillfour members of the Public Protection Forces in the outskirts of the Afghan capital.
May 16 —Adamawa, Nigeria— Boko Haram jihadismassacrefive people, including farmers and fishermen, in the Madagali district.
May 16 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haram terroristsmassacrenine people, including farmers and fishermen, in the Maichulmuri village.
May 16 —Lake Chad, Chad— Boko Haramkills13 villagers in the village of Ceilia.
May 16 —Manbij, Syria— Suspected ISIS jihadis carry out suicide vehicle-borne improvised explosive device (SVBIED) attack,killsone U.S.-backed Kurdish fighter andinjuringten civilians.
May 17 —Diyala, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadiskilledtwo civilians, including a teacher and an elderly man in the district of Khanaqin.
May 17 —Balkh, Afghanistan— Taliban jihadis, as they fled reinforcements arrival, launched rocket into Humvee,killingtwo police officers, injuring two others.
May 17 —Jowzjan, Afghanistan— At least one mankillsone of his fellow pro-government militiamen in Aqcha District, steals weapons from outpost, and joins Taliban insurgency.
May 17 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Unknown jihadis attach bomb to vehicle,killingone civilian, wounding another.
May 18 —Fezzan, Libya— Suspected ISIS jihadiskilltwo guards and a soldier and kidnap four other people at the Zella oilfield.
May 18 —Herat, Afghanistan— Suspected Talibankillsfive children, wounds 20 other civilians in the main the market of Obe district.
May 18 —Takhar, Afghanistan— Talibankillsnine militiamen and wounds seven in Rustaq district.
May 18 —Helmand, Afghanistan— Taliban roadside bombkillstwo police officers and injures two others in Washer district.
May 18 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haram attacks refugee camp,killingtwo people and injuring 12 others.
May 19 —Giza, Egypt— Suspected ISIS jihadis target a tourist bus with a bomb,injuring17.
May 19 —Diyala, Iraq— Suspected ISIS terrorists,killseven Baghdad-sanctioned PMF troops and injures 26 others.
May 19 —Timbuktu, Mali— Suspected jihadiskillone United Nations peacekeeper soldier and wound six others.
May 19 —Kunduz, Afghanistan— Talibankillstwo members of the Afghan National Army (ANA), an ANDSF branch, in Imam Sahib District near the country’s border with Tajikistan.
May 19 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Talibankillsthree police officers, wounds three others at a checkpoint in the country’s capital.
May 19 —Kandahar, Afghanistan—Talibanjihadis ambush andkilla member of the Afghan Special Forces (ASF) in the Nari Pul area of the provincial capital of Kandahar city.
May 19 —Helmand, Afghanistan— Taliban roadside bombkillsthe Washir District deputy police chief and his bodyguard as they rushed in with backup.
May 19 —Faryab, Afghanistan— Parents accuse Taliban narco-jihadis of “gang rape” their two young girls in the Andkhoi district.
May 19 —Villejuif, France— Jihadiwoundstwo civilians with aknifein a southern Paris suburb while chanting the jihadi battle cry “Allahu Akbar.”
May 19 —Diyala, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadis attack a bus carrying Shiite PMF fighters,killingseven and wounding 26 in the town of Balad Ruz.
May 19 —Republican Subordination, Tajikistan— ISIS jihadis held in a high-security prison in the city of Vahda,killthree guards and five fellow prisoners amid a deadly prison riot.
May 19 —Sikasso Region, Mali— Suspected jihadiskillseven, including four civilians in the town of Koury, near the country’s volatile border region of Burkina Faso.
May 20 —Kapisa, Afghanistan— Taliban bombkillsfour, including child, two women in the Nejrab District.
May 20 —Paktia, Afghanistan— Talibankillstwo security guards of former Afghan lawmaker in the provincial capital of Gardez City.
May 20 —Borno, Nigeria— Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP)killsat least three soldiers when it storms a military base in the town of Gubio. Six soldiers remain missing.
May 20 —Sangha-Mbaéré, Central African Republic (CAR)— SuspectedIslamistsdecapitateFrench-Spanishnun inNolawhereritualcrimes are also common.
May 21 —Ouham Pende, Central African Republic (CAR)— Anti-Christian and MuslimFulaniterrorist-linked militia Return, Reclamation, Rehabilitation (3R)killmore than 50 people in several villages.
May 22 —Ghazni, Afghanistan— Talibankillsthree, including children, wounds 20 others, including civilians, with explosives-laden Humvee near provincial capital of Ghazni City.
May 22 —Borno, Nigeria— ISWAP releasesvideopurportedly showing execution of nine Nigerian troops. The date of the filming of the video is not specified, but it is the first time the deaths of those in the video are confirmed.
May 22 —Mogadishu, Somalia— Al-Shabaab carries out car bomb attack near checkpoint,killingnine and wounding 13.
May 22 —Sikasso Region, Mali— Suspected jihadiskilltwo Ghanaian drivers close to the country’s border with volatile Burkina Faso.
May 22 —Salahuddin, Iraq— ISISkillsone police officer, wounds three others in the Allas oilfield.
May 22 —Nineveh, Iraq— Suspected ISIS bomb attackkillsone civilian in the provincial capital Mosul’s al-Shoura district.
May 23 —Anbar, Iraq— Suspected ISIS car bombkillsone PMF fighter and a civilian,woundstwo others in the town of al-Qaim.
May 24 —Salahuddin, Iraq— Suspected ISIS terroristskillseven, including farmers, injure four in Sharqat District before burning their harvest.
May 24 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Suspected jihadiskilltwo, including prayer leader, and wound 16 others at a mosque.
May 24 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Suspected Talibanwoundfive Romanian NATO troops in the birthplace of the Taliban.
May 24 —Balochistan, Pakistan— Suspected jihadis attack mosque in provincial capital of Quetta, killingfourand injuring18.
May 24 —Borno, Nigeria— ISWAPkillsfive troops, wound two others.
May 24 —Balkh, Afghanistan— Talibankillssix local police officers, wounds nine others in Charbolak district.
May 24 —Sar-i-Pul, Afghanistan— Talibankillstwo Afghan soldiers, including army commander, in Sozma Qala district, wounds six others.
May 24 —Kandahar, Afghanistan—Talibanclaims responsibility for attack in provincial capital of group’s birthplace that left one police officerdead, another wounded.
May 24 —Lyon, France—Suspectedjihadis injure up to 13 in bomb blast outside bakery in the capital city of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region.
May 24 —Salahuddin, Iraq— ISISkillstwo, including a woman and PMF fighters, wounds five others, including PMF fighter and woman’s family in two separates attacks, one in the provincial capital and the other in Baiji.
May 25 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haram ambushkills25 troops and civilians.
May 25 —Lake Chad, Chad— Boko Haramkillsat four local troops, journalist, and injures11others in Ngouboua.
May 25 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISIS bombkillsfive, injures ten, sets crops ablaze in al-Hawija.
May 25 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Terrorists in Taliban birthplace’s Spin Boldak district blow up motorcycle,killingone civilian, wounding at least two others.
May 25 —Faryab, Afghanistan— Talibankillsone 16-year-old boy, wounds two other civilians in Dawlat Abad district.
May 25 —Sulu, Philippines— ISIS-linked Abu Sayyaf jihadiskilltwo children, injure seven, including two civilians when they attacked soldiers in the provincial capital of Jolo.
May 26 —Nineveh, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadiskillfive civilians, wound eight others in provincial capital Mosul’s Rabia district.
May 26 —Dhaka, Bangladesh— Suspected ISIS jihadis bombed police van,injuringthree, including one officer.
May 26 —Toulfe, Burkina Faso— Suspected jihadis attack Catholic Church during Sunday service,killingfour.
May 26 —Farah, Afghanistan— Talibankillsten Afghan soldiers in Bala Buluk district while they driving back in Humvee after picking up salaries.
May 26 —Sari Pul, Afghanistan— Talibankillsfour ANDSF members in provincial capital, wounds 22 others.
May 26 —Paktia, Afghanistan— Unknown terrorists’ bomb strikes vehicle in Patan District,killinga tribal elder.
May 26 —Takhar, Afghanistan— Talibankillstwo pro-Kabul militiamen and one police officer in Namak Ab district.
May 26 —Kunduz, Afghanistan— Talibankillstwo local police officers, wounds three others in Chardara district.
May 26 —Kunduz, Afghanistan— Talibankillsthree officers, wounds four others in the Third Police district.
May 26 —Plateau, Nigeria— Pastors group accuses Fulani Muslim-linked terrorists ofkilling30 Christians, burning over 20 houses during church worship in provincial capital of Jos.
May 26 —Kermanshah, Iran— Suspected Islamic terroristkillsplainclothes police officer near Ramadan religious gathering in the Eslamabad-e Gharb region.
May 26 —Hama, Syria— Al-Qaeda-linked HTS jihadis firenearly40 rockets into Christiancityof Suqaylabiyah, killing five civilians andinjuring12 others.
May 27 —Balkh, Afghanistan— Talibankillsthree pro-Kabul militiamen, wounds another in Zarih district.
May 27 —Badghis, Afghanistan— Talibankillsfour pro-Kabul militiamen, including commander, in Qala-e-Now region.
May 27 —Sar-i-Pul, Afghanistan— Talibankillseight ANDSF members, wounds 29 others, and captures three at the Qashqari military base in the provincial capital.
May 27 —Ghor, Afghanistan— Talibankillstwo pro-Kabul militiamen, wounds two others in provincial capital.
May 27 —Badakhshan, Afghanistan— Unknown jihadis’ bomb strikes Afghan military vehicle,killingone soldier, wounding two others in Arghankhwa district.
May 27 —Kunduz, Afghanistan— Talibankillsthree pro-Kabul militiamen, two soldiers, and also captures three militiamen, three civilians in Khan Abad district.
May 27 —Samangan, Afghanistan— Talibankillsone police officer and wounds another in the provincial capital.
May 27 —Kunduz, Afghanistan— Unknown jihadis in the provincial capitalassassinateone of the advisers for Afghan Chief Executive Abdullah Abdullah, and wounds one of the victim’s bodyguard.
May 27 —Sar-i-Pul, Afghanistan— Talibankillsone local police officer in Sozma Qala district.
May 27 —Logar, Afghanistan— Talibankillsfive soldiers, wounds four, captures four others, and steals Humvee at army checkpoint in Baraki Barak district.
May 27 —Ghor, Afghanistan— Talibankills18 Afghan security forces, including 15 pro-Kabul militiamen and three police officers who were clearing the area of terrorists so workers could fix UNESCO world heritage site damaged by flash floods in Shahrak district.
May 27 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haramkillsseven, wounds two, including members of civilian task force, and steal food in Jere region.
May 27 —Kashmir, India— Suspected Hizbul Mujahideenkillscivilian in Handwara town.
May 27 —Pattani, Thailand— Suspected Islamic terroristskilltow, including 14-year-old, wound four troops in a marketplace bombing in Nong Chik district.
May 27 —Mount Lebanon, Lebanon— Hezbollah narco-terroristskillinnocent bystander when reportedly retaliating to attack on a mosque in Christian town of Damour in Chouf district.
May 27 —Cabo Delgado, Mozambique— Suspected Islamistskill16 civilians, wound ten others in Macomia.
May 28 —Ghazni, Afghanistan— TalibankillsAfghan military prosecutor and a government official.
May 28 —Ghor, Afghanistan— Talibankills18 in the provincial capital, including 13 civilians, and wounds 17 others.
May 28 —Khost, Afghanistan— Talibankills13 soldiers, wounds 10 others in Sabari district.
May 28 —Samangan, Afghanistan— Talibankillsfive soldiers, one police officer and wounds three police officers in Dara-i-Suf Payin district.
May 28 —Wardak, Afghanistan— Sunni Taliban-linked insider attack leaves nine police officers of Shiite Hazara ethnicity and the bodyguard of the governor of a nearby provincedead.
May 28 —Hama, Syria— Al-Qaeda-linked HTS fires rockets into several regime-held townskillingonewoman, injuring seven other civilians
May 29 —Baghlan, Afghanistan— Talibankillssix soldiers and wounds four others in the provincial capital.
May 29 —Khost, Afghanistan— Unknown terrorists’ bomb hits civilian vehicle,killingone and wounding five others, including women and children.
May 29 —Khost, Afghanistan— Unknown terroristskilltribal elder and former director of the Ministry of Refugees and Repatriation in a mosque near his home in the provincial capital.
May 29 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Unknown terroristskillone police officer at outpost in nation’s capital where Taliban and ISIS are known to operate.
May 30 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISIS jihadiskillone villager, wound seven others in Daquq district.
May 30 —Kirkuk, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadis carry out multiple explosions near commercial center,killingfour people and wounding 23 others.
May 30 —Kabul, Afghanistan— ISIS suicide bomberkillssix people and wounds 16 others when he blew himself outside military academy.
May 30 —Balkh, Afghanistan— Talibankillsseven pro-Kabul militiamen, wounds eight others in Dawlat Abad district.
May 30 —Badghis, Afghanistan— Talibankills16 Afghan commandos, wounds 15 others in Bala Murghab district.
May 30 —Jowzjan, Afghanistan— Talibankillsfour pro-Kabul militiamen in Qarqin district.
May 30 —Faryab, Afghanistan— Talibankills13 soldiers, one pro-Kabul militiaman, wounds three, and capture two others in Kohistan district.
May 30 —Kunduz, Afghanistan— Talibankillsone local police officer, wounds five, including two police officers and three soldiers.
May 30 —Jowzjan, Afghanistan— Talibankillstwo police officers, one civilian, and wounds another civilian.
May 30 —Diyala, Iraq— ISISkillsone villager, wounds seven others, sets fire to their farms.
May 30 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISISkillspoliceman, wounds another in town of Abu Saida.
May 31 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Taliban attacks U.S. convoy,killingfour Afghan civilians, injuring four American troops.
May 31 —Sulu, Philippines— ISIS-linked Abu Sayyaf jihadiskillDutch hostage as he tried to escape from mountain village near town of Patikul.
May 31 —Jerusalem, Israel— Palestinian terroristwoundstwo in stabbing.
June 1 —Ghazni, Afghanistan— Talibankillseight police officers, wounds seven in provincial capital.
June 1 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haramkillsworshipper,woundsthree others inside mosque in Sajeri village near state capital.
June 1 —North Waziristan, Pakistan— Islamic terroristkillsone soldier with bomb in Boya area.
June 1 —Raqqa, Syria— Suspected ISIS suicide bomberkillsten, wounds 20 in group’s former capital.
June 1 —Hadhramaut, Yemen— Al-Qaeda jihadis attack Saudi-backed militia checkpoint, killing at least onefighter, wounding twoothers.
June 1 —Diyala, Iraq—SuspectedISIS terroristskillthree family members, including man and his son near town of Abu Saida.
June 1 —Anbar, Iraq— Suspected jihadiskillnine civilians by setting them ablaze while they were looking for truffles in Malashah area.
June 2 —Narathiwat, Thailand—SuspectedIslamic insurgentskillone village head inside mosque in Ra Ngae district, injure praying man.
June 2 —Kabul, Afghanistan— ISIS targets university bus,killingtwo andwounding24, including tworeporters.
June 2 —Farah, Afghanistan— Talibankillssix border security forces, wound eight others guarding country’s boundary with terrorist group ally Iran.
June 2 —Derna, Libya— ISIS claims responsibility for bomb blasts thatwounds18 people in the coastal city.
June 2 —Aleppo Province, Syria— Islamic terrorist suicide car bombkills22, including five children and two women,woundsmore than 20 near mosque in Azaz region.
June 3 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Unknown terrorists target bus carrying government employees,killingfive, wounding ten in capital where both ISIS and Taliban operate.
June 3 —Kashmir, India— Unknown terroristskillcivilian in Pantha Chowk area in the outskirts of Srinagar city.
June 3 —Tripoli, Lebanon— ISIS-linked suicide bomberkillstwo police, two soldiers.
June 3 —Mandera, Kenya— Suspected al-Shabaab jihadiskillstwo security forces.
June 4 —Baghlan, Afghanistan— Unknown terrorists’ bomb detonated near mosque in Nahrin district,killingtwo civilians, wounding 14 others.
June 4 —North Kivu, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC)— ISISkills13 civilians, wounds 12 others in Beni region.
June 4 —Diyala, Iraq— ISISwoundstwo soldiers at army checkpoint in Beni Zayd village.
June 4 —Salahuddin, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadiskillsix security forces in al-Tarmiyah district.
June 4 —Daraa, Syria— Unknown terroristskillone and wound two civilians near mosque in Buser al-Harir city.
June 4 —Al-Bayda, Yemen— Shiite Houthi rebelskillimam, nine worshippers at a mosque in the Qiva district over a dispute of the start of Eid al-Fitr, the holiday that marks the end of Ramadan.
Pleaselet us knowif you're having issues with commenting.




Copyright © 2024 Breitbart

Title: Kasargod: More Keralites joining ISIS, a cause of concern - Daijiworld.com
Daijiworld Media Network - Kasargod (SP)
Kasargod, Jun 9:The fact that more people of Kerala origin have been joining the dreaded ISIS in spite of having information about the death of people who had joined the force earlier, has been a matter of concern for the authorities.
Recently there was information about Rashid Abdulla from the state, who used to inspire people to join the ISIS and who travelled to Afghanistan sometime back having died in an operation in Afghanistan. This incident too has failed to dissuade the people from joining hands with ISIS.
There is information that six persons have recently joined ISIS. Ashfaq Majeed, his wife, and four children, who left India during January this year, have joined ISIS as per information. It is said that they flew to UAE from here and then reached Nagarhar region in Afghanistan that is under ISIS control via Iran.

The husband and wife were classmates when studying in an engineering college at Malappuram. Ashfaq is from Velamhcherry in Malappuram while his wife is from Kuttyadi in Kozhikode. It is said that her family was not religiously inclined but she got attracted to the philosophy of ISIS. An English newspaper reported that immediately after joining the ISIS Ashfaq spoke to his mother through the messaging application of Telegram app, duly informing her that his entire family had joined ISIS.
It is said that during January two families from Kannur and an unmarried person had joined ISIS at Afghanistan. Anwar, his wife and three children reportedly were killed after they reached Afghanistan. There is no information about Sajid, his wife, and two children, as well as Nizamuddin, who also left India to join ISIS. As per an information, most of the about 20 people who joined ISIS from Kasargod and Palakkad in 2016 have perished.
Sources say that Firoze from Kasargod, who had joined ISIS after reaching Syria wants to surrender. It is said he called a relative two months back to know about the procedure to surrender, kind of punishment he might face if he comes back etc. Some reports say that the ISIS has lost its relevance and its cadres are finding it hard to get food and water.
Need to be prevented and corrective action to be initiated by the government to stop this youth getting into crimes.
Preventive and corrective action must be initiated by the religious heads and leaders of the community. If the government initiates any action, then the opposition especially the so-called sickular parties will stand on the way on the pretext of infringing religious freedom, human rights, freedom of movement and so on.
There was a time parents proudly says my son,daugher workng in dubai, GELF country  now they say working in ISIS,
Hope they never return back.
Frightening n disturbing to note that more youths r drawn towards ISIS, notably from Jammu Kashmir n South India.... There r sleeper cells, who could be activated, to recreate a bloodbath, on our sacred soil !!!!!!
ISIS ಭಯೋತ್ಪಾದಕರು ಆಹಾರ ಮತ್ತು ನೀರು ಸಿಗದೇ ಒದ್ದಾಡಿ  ಸಾಯಬೇಕು
Muslims  should understand that ISIS from devil because they kill innocent people. Killing innocents & Islam cannot go together.They also kill muslim brothers.
Stop all communication lines and facilities that are in use at Kerala... Recent elections also showed their mentality.Majority work at gulf don't bother about centre or state governments...  They just want land as a point to land between their travel.Whole India thinks in one direction but Kerala (West Bengal also ) in a different one.This is a serious issue should be dealt with before it go uncontrolled....
We cannot stop people from committing Suicide ...
What kind of teachings beyond the scriptures ! normally people hate scared to some sort of people because of their abnormal paranormal activities with fellow humans !
Quote: "she got attracted to the philosophy of ISIS"What's their philosophy?  Killing human ? Mostly killing Muslims in Middle East region.And she got attracted?UnbelievableShe is abnormal.They deserve to die.
Ahmed K .C mangalore ,they get attracted to the promise of  huge money and  vehicles ,richness .They are ready  to go anywhere as we know  where money speaks.Reality is quite different.As we see the  pictures of children left back in Syrien,without parents,without food and medical requirements,one has to only pray to God he should send some angels to take care of them.They are trying to do something but not always successful.One cant hold back people who are  walking in to the open well that they have seen during the day.They choose people who are educated,and having  a good amount of money.
Even if the news is true,  we need not bother.If they go outside  the country  and die  in Afghanistan  or Pakistan,  let them go and get lost.Less burden on our country .Good if they leave our country  and get eliminated.
not to bother!...do you think they gone by themselves...there are hundreds here in sleeper cells who brainwashed them, arranged contacts, made facilities, may be hired some lawyers also...what about these sleeper cells..they are more dangerous than who gone out..
It is important to make sure that those terrorists who leave our country  to join ISIS should never be allowed  to return.It  is not really  useful for us  to stop them from going.Either shoot them before they leave or allow them to go and die in Syria, Iraq  Afghanistan  or Pakistan.Never take them back after they leave our country.Try to catch and kill the recruiters and their financiers.
Crack these monsters with a new law and eliminate. Left and Congress will come on the way in the name of human rights but this has to be curbed.Otherwise Kerala will become terrorists own country.
The State Govt wont give a damn about this .  Any party that acts would lose  their vote bank.So they look the other way as such activities happen. Malayalis are migrating to other states esp Karnataka .  Many have bought properties in advance as , Plan B in Blore, Mlore Mysore etc.   If a Kashmir like uprising takes place nobody want to be rendered homeless.
If they actually followed the principles of religion they wouldn't do this stupid thing.. people need to be educated from proper religious heads to avoid them from getting brain washed..I love Kerala and I don't want it to get ruined like Kashmir..
This will continue because ISIS  portrait  themselves as jihadists and  has continuously advertising attractive package on websites and other social media  for Muslim youths  that they will get  72 hours in jannath
..concern!..concern for who?..state Govt not bothered..ruling Communist party or its central ally Congress not bothered....no national media coverage, they are only concerned with Gaurakshak & RSS...i wonder is  keralite concerned!!for decades problem brewing in , forced convesrion, chopping hands, demographic cleansing , anti national activities on the rise....many predicted it will be another kashmir..
Arabic is Compulsory in Pakistan even though it belongs to the Middle East,Look at Us we have worlds old language which is called Mother of All Languages Samskrita (Sanskrit)We don't give a Damm about it,Well, in that case, these people joining IS is not a new thing
My heart goes out to the wife and the poor innocent children. Why lure the wife and take the kids as well?  What a cult ?
We all feel sorry for them. Most of America and Europe open the door for such war refugees  but not a single Arab nations accommodated a single refugees specially women and children s sho were suffering  from life. After lots of suffering  these idiots never learned  the lesson and now come mess up for India where peace freedom has given to every human in India but these idiots never thought to be peaceful. For them comes religion  first then wife children. Moreover allowed many marriages per thier belief where one dies then life goes on to next wife more children.  It is sad. World has healing from second world war but god know who will explain  to such idiots the suffering  from wars directly  or indirectly  by good people like all of us except these jihadist and thier financiers sheikhs  their ultimate  goal is world dominance of religion  where world will end with wars of sufferings of humans. Look at many middle  eastern minorities  are suffering from such peaceful  jihadist of thier so called religious  wars on kafirs.
Disclaimer:
Please write your correct name and email address. Kindly do not post any personal, abusive, defamatory, infringing, obscene, indecent, discriminatory or unlawful or similar comments. Daijiworld.com will not be responsible for any defamatory message posted under this article.
Please note that sending false messages to insult, defame, intimidate, mislead or deceive people or to intentionally cause public disorder is punishable under law. It is obligatory on Daijiworld to provide the IP address and other details of senders of such comments, to the authority concerned upon request.
Hence, sending offensive comments using daijiworld will be purely at your own risk, and in no way will Daijiworld.com be held responsible.
Daijiworld Residency,Airport Road, Bondel Post,Mangalore - 575 008
                            Karnataka IndiaTelephone : +91-824-2982023.General Enquiry: office@daijiworld.com,News & Info : news@daijiworld.com
Kishoo Enterprises,3rd Floor, Mandavi Trade Centre,
                            Kadiyali, Udupi – 576 102Telephone : 0091-820-4295571E-mail : udupi@daijiworld.com
Daijiworld Middle East FZE,P.O.Box: 84772, Dubai, UAETel: 971-50-6597629Fax: 971-4-2639207Email: dubai@daijiworld.com
Copyright © 2001 - 2024. All Rights Reserved.Published by Daijiworld Media Pvt Ltd., Mangalore.
Powered byATC Online LLP

Title: Kerala ISIS leader reportedly killed in Afghanistan by US forces
Mumbai Metro Aqua Line 3: First phase of Mumbai's underground metro likely to be inaugurated in...; check speed, fare
New airline from Uttar Pradesh gets govt approval, set to compete with IndiGo, Air India
Transforming Contingent Workforce Management with Cutting-Edge Program Strategies
Meet woman with Rs 39322 crore net worth, who once led Rs 59262 crore company, she is India's richest...
Jatadhara makers Prerna Arora, Sudheer Babu Productions reveal striking second poster of supernatural epic
India
Rashid Abdulla, who was said to the be the leaders of an ISIS module in Kerala, was reportedly killed in a bombing by US forces in Afghanistan.
DNA Web Team
Updated :Jun 03, 2019, 08:04 PM IST
Rashid Abdulla, the alleged leader of an ISIS module in Keraka, has reportedly been killed in Afghanistan about a month ago. News of Abdulla's death was shared with a police officer by an alleged ISIS operative over a messaging app.
"He is no more," the ISIS operative is reported to have told the cop when he was asked about Abdulla. The operative also told the cop that Abdulla was killed in a random bombing in Afghanistan conducted by the US forces, reported the Times of India.
He further added, "Total 3 Indian brothers, 2 Indian ladies and 4 kids got killed” in the bombing.
Abdulla spearheaded the ISIS ideology on social media and was responsible for convincing 21 people from Kerela to migrate to Afghanistan and join ISIS, along with his wife Ayesha.
Abdulla was a native of Kerala's Kasaragod District. He was a teacher at Peace International School in Kozhikode, and was known for his strong commitment to the terrorist outfit. He reportedly tried to convert people from other religions to Islam, and is said to have played a role in the radilaisation of some individuals in the state.
According to the TOI report, Abdulla used to send audio clips through messenger app Telegram to spread the message of 'true Islam' as interpreted by the ISIS. His messages also spoke of life under the 'Khalifate', or the theocratic state that ISIS tried to establish in parts of Iraq and Syria.
Abdulla was at the helm of the ISIS module in Kerala after the killing of Shajeer Mangalaserri Abdullah in Afghanistan.
Security agencies however have are not taking word of Abdulla's death as the final word, and are waiting for more details and a verifiable confirmation.
Lok Sabha Elections 2024: Anupamaa' Star Rupali Ganguly Joins BJP, Says 'Big Fan' Of PM Modi
Salman Khan House Firing Case: Accused Anuj Thapan Dies By Suicide In Mumbai Police Custody
Lok Sabha Elections 2024: Congress' Rahul Gandhi-Amethi Suspense Making BJP Nervous? | Uttar Pradesh
Delhi Bomb Threat: Who Is Behind The Hoax Bomb Threat That Shut Down Hundred Schools In Delhi?
Bangladesh Protest: Unreal Scenes In Country After fresh Wave Of Protests |Sheikh Hasina

Title: Experts: Islamic State Reshaping the Jihadi Landscape of Afghanistan
U.S. and Afghan government officials warned on Monday that the Islamic State is dramatically expanding its footprint in Afghanistan and planning to use it as a base for attacks on Western countries, including the United States.
AnalyststoldtheAssociated Press thatISIS has been practicing for action in the West with terrorist attacks in Kabul, stockpiling of weapons, and recruiting locals to learn the battlefield tactics it developed in Syria and Iraq:
A U.S. intelligence official based in Afghanistan told The Associated Press that a recent wave of attacks in the capital, Kabul, is “practice runs” for even bigger attacks in Europe and the United States.
“This group is the most near-term threat to our homelands from Afghanistan,” the official said on condition of anonymity to preserve his operational security. “The IS core mandate is: You will conduct external attacks” in the U.S. and Europe. “That is their goal. It’s just a matter of time,” he said. “It is very scary.”
Bruce Hoffman, director of the Center for Security Studies at Georgetown University, sees Afghanistan as a possible new base for IS now that it has been driven from Iraq and Syria. “ISIS has invested a disproportionate amount of attention and resources in Afghanistan,” he said, pointing to “huge arms stockpiling” in the east.
The Islamic State now has a significant presence in four of the most dangerous provinces of mountainous northern Afghanistan and is developing influence on par with the Afghan government and the Taliban. Its military strength has beenbolsteredby fighters from Central Asia, Chechnya, India, Bangladesh, and ethnic Uighurs from China.
The U.S. intelligence official quoted by the Associated Press theorized ISIS has designs on encircling and capturing Jalalabad and could be in a position to launch attacks on the U.S. or Europe within a year. At least eight terrorism arrests in the United States have been linked to ISIS in Afghanistan. The terrorist group is said to be aggressively recruiting well-educated Afghans as overseas operatives.
“The Taliban and IS are sharply divided over ideology and tactics, with the Taliban largely confining their attacks to government targets and Afghan and international security forces. The Taliban and IS have fought each other on a number of occasions, and the Taliban are still the larger and more imposing force,” the AP noted.
The threat is grave enough to make Western and Russian analysts consider using the Taliban as a weapon to blunt the spread of ISIS. Unfortunately, there is also a chance more Taliban will defect and join ISIS as peace negotiations between the Taliban and the Kabul government proceed.
The Russians are even more alarmed about the growing strength of ISIS in Afghanistan. Russia’s FSB security servicewarnedin late May that ISIS has some 5,000 militants in northern Afghanistan, over twice as many as the U.S. military estimated last year, and many of them are battle-hardened veterans of the Syrian civil war.
U.S. military plannersbelieveISIS in Afghanistan lost many of its fighters and top officers to American airstrikes, beginning with the famed MOAB (Massive Ordnance Air Blast) bombing of caves in Nangarhar province in 2017, but is replenishing its numbers with outside fighters and disgruntled former members of the Taliban. ISIS is also seeking to radicalize restless young people in Afghanistan, especially those with tech skills.
Pleaselet us knowif you're having issues with commenting.




Copyright © 2024 Breitbart

Title: Islamic State Expands Into Afghanistan, Threatening the West - World News - Haaretz.com
A potential agreement between the U.S. and Taliban would withdraw U.S. forces from Afghanistan in return for a pledge from the Taliban to keep the country from being used as an ISIS launch pad for global attacks
The Islamic State group has lost its caliphate in Syria and Iraq, but in the forbidding mountains of northeastern Afghanistan the group is expanding its footprint, recruiting new fighters and plotting attacks on the United States and other Western countries, according to U.S. and Afghan security officials.

Title: Afghanistan: A War in Crisis
Photo: JOHN D MCHUGH/AFP/Getty Images
ReportbyAnthony H. Cordesman
Published September 4, 2019
The U.S, has announced a potential peace agreement with the Taliban in Afghanistan. Many of the details are still secret or undecided, and the Administration has sent mixed signals about the timing and scale of U.S. force cuts. President Trump announced shortly before reports the U.S. had agreed to the basic structure of a peace deal that he would cut U.S. forces.
He described these cuts as follows in an interview on Fox News on 29 August, “we're going down to 8,600 and then we make a determination from there as to what happens. We'll make a determination, but we're going down to 8,600, we're bringing it down. We have it very well controlled. You know, we're not fighting a war over there, we're just policeman over there. We could win that war so fast — if I wanted to kill 10 million people, Brian, which I don't. I'm not looking to kill a big portion of that country. I'm not looking to do that.”
On September 2nd, in the middle of new Taliban attacks, the U.S announced a draft peace agreement between the United States and the Taliban that withdraws 5,400 U.S. troops from five bases in Afghanistan within five months – or 135 days – after the deal was signed. U.S. peace envoy Zalmay Khalilzad described the proposed plan in a broadcast on TOLO News as “an agreement with the Taliban in principle” although he cautioned that “it is not final until the president of the United States also agrees to it.” He stated that such a withdrawal would depend on the Taliban meeting the terms of the agreement, ending its ties to Al-Qaida, and provide clear guarantees to support counterterrorism activities.
He also made it clear that the Afghan government had been briefed but not given copies of the draft agreement or played a major role in shaping it: “It is our (a U.S.) agreement with the Taliban, not their (the Afghan government) agreement with the Taliban. No reference was made to the fact that Afghanistan planned to hold a Presidential election on September 28th, what role the Taliban was expected to play in the government in the future, and how the agreement with the Taliban could be reconciled with the results of the Afghan election.
Presumably, far more details will become apparent with time, but it is all too clear that any peace agreement will have to be a highly uncertain option, and it is far from clear what guarantees the U.S. will make to secure it, or what levels of military and civil aid it will pledge. Earlier media reports indicated that the Administration was considering a full withdrawal within a year of a ceasefire, but no report has had any official confirmation.
It is also unclear that the U.S. has the option of staying in Afghanistan without providing open-ended military and financial support. Much depends on current trends in the war, and the extent to which the Afghan Government or the Taliban are winning control and influence over the country, and a detailed review of the fighting shows that it is the Taliban that is making progress even while the Afghan forces still have major U.S. combat air, U.S. train and assist, and U.S. land combat support from elite force elements.
Much depends on the degree to which the Afghan government forces can stand on their own if a peace negotiation leads to the withdrawal of U.S. and Resolute support forces, or if the U.S. makes major further force cuts. At present, it seems doubtful that Afghan force can survive if the Taliban should use the peace process to secure a U.S. withdrawal and then turn on the Afghan government.
At the same time, the civil sector is weak and making marginal progress at best. The Afghan government remains weak and divided, the economy and government budget are heavily dependent on outside aid, and efforts to make aid conditional on Afghan performance has so far had only limited success.
The end result is that both peace and any open-ended effort to stay are both likely to be bad options, and the U.S. will be forced to choose between them. If the peace process should fail, it is doubtful that Afghan forces can survive without ongoing U.S. combat air support, help from U.S. elite forces, and forward deployed security assistance brigades indefinitely.
It is equally uncertain that even if Afghanistan can unite around some future President, that it can survive its gross failures in governance, the rule of law, and economic development without equally indefinite billions of dollars in U.S. civil aid. A detailed analysis of the civil side of the war shows that Afghanistan is still the equivalent of a failed state.
The Burke Chair at CSIS has updated and expanded a report that uses official reports, maps, and graphics to examine Afghan military and civil progress, or the lack of it, in full detail. It draws on official reporting by the Resolute Support Command, the Office of the Secretary of Defense (1225 Report), the Lead Inspector General for Overseas Contingency Operations (LIG-OCO), the Special Inspector General for Afghan Reconstruction (SIGAR), and the United Nations. At the same time, it draws upon a variety of outside sources that raise serious questions about the accuracy of some of this official reporting.
The report is entitledAfghanistan: A War in Crisis. It is available on the CSIS web site athttps://csis-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/s3fs-public/publication/190904_Progress-Afghanistan.pdf. The key military portions of the report are available as a separate reporthere. The civil portions are availablehere.
The key sections of the full report include:

Anthony H. Cordesman holds the Arleigh A. Burke chair in Strategy at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C. He has served as a consultant on Afghanistan to the United States Department of Defense and the United States Department of State.

Center for Strategic and International Studies1616 Rhode Island Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20036
Tel: 202.887.0200Fax: 202.775.3199
SeeMedia Pagefor more interview, contact, and citation details.
©2024 Center for Strategic & International Studies. All Rights Reserved.

Title: Concerns Growing Over Release of Taliban’s Prisoners | Ariana News
‘Engagement is key’ with Afghanistan, says UN political chief
UN chief says new laws ‘strip Afghan women and girls’ of all their rights
IEA blasts UN for not being invited to United Nations General Assembly
Iran walls off part of border with Afghanistan
IEA extends condolences to Iran following deadly coal mine explosion
Biden designates UAE as a second major defense partner after India
Israeli troops raid, order closure of Al Jazeera’s West Bank bureau
Top Hezbollah commander among 14 killed in Israeli strike on Beirut
More than 100 killed or missing as Sinaloa Cartel war rages in Mexico
Israel unleashes heavy strikes on Lebanon as US, UK urge restraint
Iran’s Guards ban communications devices after strike on Hezbollah
Pakistan picks new chief of powerful spy agency ISI
Sri Lankans elect Marxist-leaning Dissanayake as president to fix economy
At least 30 dead in Iran coal mine explosion
Iran gave Russia missiles but no launchers, sources say
Tahawol: Kabul-Islamabad ties discussed
Tahawol: 79th session of UN General Assembly discussed
Tahawol: UNSC meeting on situation in Afghanistan reviewed
Tahawol: Central Asian countries’ demand to engage with Afghanistan discussed
Tahawol: UNSC to hold meeting on Afghanistan discussed
Trade between Afghanistan and Pakistan drops sharply
Construction of 252 MVA substation in Kabul’s Tarakhel gets underway
Energy minister, Indian company talk handover of Arghandi 500 KV substation
Baradar hails Termez Trade Center as a ‘new chapter’ in Afghan-Uzbek partnership
Bayat Power in talks with Afghan officials for Phase 2 of gas to electricity project
Afghan national cricket players return to Kabul after ODI series win against South Africa
France accused of ‘match-fixing’ over dismal performance against Iran at Futsal World Cup
South Africa win last game of ODI series against Afghanistan
Afghanistan advance to knockout stage of FIFA Futsal World Cup in Uzbekistan
Afghanistan’s Futsal WC fate hangs in balance
Did the US just get lured into war with the Houthis?
OPED: Is the West’s conscience being overshadowed by its political ego?
Peace won’t be found in silence or fear, says AIHRC chair
OPINION: The awful truth about growing up in Afghanistan
Published
on
By
The Afghan government has started the process of releasing nearly 900 Taliban inmates from prisons across Afghanistan.
During the last couple of days, dozens of Taliban prisoners were released from Herat, Bagram, and Pul-e-Charkhi prisons.
The Taliban insurgent group welcomed the move but military analysts say the released prisoners may join Taliban ranks in the battlefields.
"The release of nearly 900 Taliban prisoners at once will have a negative impact on the morale of our soldiers. On the other hand, you have to pay the price of peace to build trust," said Zahir Azimi, a former military official.
During an address to the nation for Eid, President Ashraf Ghani said 887 inmates would be set free as a gesture of "goodwill."
"The Afghan government is releasing Taliban's prisoners to bribe Taliban to sit with them for peace negotiation, it will have a negative effect," said Karim Khuram, Chief of Staff for Former Afghan President Hamid Karzai.
In a statement, Taliban says most of the released prisoners are not their members, however, the group welcomed the move.
"The releasing of prisoners can narrow the gaps but it cannot end the issue of Afghanistan," said Sayed Akbar Agha, a former Taliban official.
Meanwhile, Afghan special forces have broken several Taliban prisons and released civilian and military prisoners.
On Tuesday, the U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan John Bass in a tweet welcomed the Afghan government decision of releasing Taliban prisoners. In addition, he thanked Afghan forces for their bravery in freeing hundreds of Afghans by breaking the Taliban's prisons.
https://twitter.com/USAmbKabul/status/1138388390079057924
New Year’s Eve 2020 Celebrations Across the World
‘Engagement is key’ with Afghanistan, says UN political chief
Afghan national cricket players return to Kabul after ODI series win against South Africa
IEA blasts UN for not being invited to United Nations General Assembly
Trade between Afghanistan and Pakistan drops sharply
Iran walls off part of border with Afghanistan
IEA hoping to attend next BRICS meeting
Rosemary DiCarlo said the situation has been complicated by the IEA’s new morality law
Published
on
By
The head of UN political affairs, Rosemary DiCarlo, on Monday warned that the Doha process is at risk given the Islamic Emirate’s increasing restrictive policies.
Addressing a meeting on women’s rights in New York, ahead of the UN General Assembly, she said the Doha process “entails a step-for-step approach” with the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (IEA), requiring them to, for example, make governance more inclusive, and to respect women’s and girl’s rights.
In exchange, the international community would then incrementally ease restrictions and provide development support.
DiCarlo said the situation has been complicated by the IEA’s new morality law.
“We had Member States willing to engage, willing to go forward with a step-for-step project. However, I think we risk right now of ending this process,” she warned.
“At this point, those who've been participating in our process want to continue, but they really expect the Taliban (IEA) to take part in good faith, and they've got to start abiding by their international obligations.”
She emphasized that “engagement is key”, stressing that “we cannot let Afghan women and men down.”
The general debate of the 79th session of the General Assembly opened Tuesday, 24 September, and will continue through Saturday, 28 September, and conclude on Monday, 30 September 2024.
The theme for the general debate of the 79th session of the General Assembly is "Leaving no one behind: acting together for the advancement of peace, sustainable development and human dignity for present and future generations".


The UN chief stressed that the oppression of women undermines Afghanistan’s development
Published
on
By
UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres on Monday warned that Afghanistan’s new laws "strip Afghan women and girls of their rights and freedoms across the board," and are causing harm to the nation.
Speaking on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly in New York, Guterres said there was "a deep crisis of gender-based discrimination and oppression" against women in Afghanistan.
"Afghan women and girls are largely confined to their homes, with no freedom of movement and almost no access to education or work," said the UN chief.
Stating that Afghan women also suffer high rates of violence, honor killings, and rising maternal mortality, he said many feel "unsafe, isolated and powerless."
The UN chief stressed that the oppression of women undermines Afghanistan's development and said: "Extreme gender-based discrimination is not only a systematic abuse of women and girls and a violation of human rights conventions and laws. It is self-harm on a national scale."
He called on Afghan authorities to remove all restrictions against women and girls, reopen schools, and allow women to fully participate in society.
"Without recognizing the rights of one-half of its population, Afghanistan will never take its rightful place on the global stage," Guterres said.
The ruling Islamic Emirate has however repeatedly said that women’s rights are ensured in Afghanistan in accordance with Sharia law.
Zia Ahmad Takal, Deputy Spokesman of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said the absence of an IEA representative at the summit was a violation of the rights of the people of Afghanistan.
Published
on
By
Afghanistan’s foreign ministry has lashed out at the United Nations for not inviting an Islamic Emirate representative to attend the 79th UN General Assembly which gets underway in New York on Tuesday.
Zia Ahmad Takal, Deputy Spokesman of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said the absence of an IEA representative at the summit was a violation of the rights of the people of Afghanistan.
He said given the situation in the country, positive decisions should be made by the international community with regards to the country.
The Islamic Emirate appointed Suhail Shaheen as the permanent representative of Afghanistan to the United Nations, but the UN has not yet handed over the seat to the IEA.
The 79th UN General Assembly, deemed one of the largest global diplomatic events, will get underway on Tuesday in New York.
The General Assembly is held annually at UN headquarters in New York, bringing together the heads of state and government of member states. It is to take place from Sept. 24 to 30.
The 79th session will be opened by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and will be chaired by Cameroonian President Philemon Yong.
At least 133 heads of state and government, three vice presidents, 80 deputy prime ministers and 45 ministers are expected to attend.
UN leaders are meeting as numerous crises, conflicts and wars play out around the world.
Many of these, including Gaza, Ukraine, Sudan and Haiti crises are expected to be on the agenda.
On Gaza, along with emphasizing a cease-fire, member states are expected to highlight Israel’s violations of international law and UN resolutions, as well as the difficulties in delivering humanitarian aid to the region, Anadolu reported.
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas is scheduled to speak the morning of Sept. 26, while Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is scheduled for the afternoon.
This year, the main theme of the UN General Assembly discussions is "Leaving no one behind: acting together for the advancement of peace, sustainable development and human dignity for present and future generations."
"Today's global order simply does not work for everyone. In fact, I would go further and say: it's not working for anyone," said Guterres.
Therefore, it is expected that leaders will address the reform of the Security Council and the international financial architecture.

Pakistani minister calls for increased foreign aid for Afghan refugees
Iran through to knockout phase after defeating Guatemala in Futsal World Cup
South Africa confirms it will continue playing bilateral cricket with Afghanistan
Israel unleashes heavy strikes on Lebanon as US, UK urge restraint
Miller accuses House Republicans of subpoenaing Blinken over Afghanistan when he’s away
Tahawol: UNSC meeting on situation in Afghanistan reviewed
More than 100 killed or missing as Sinaloa Cartel war rages in Mexico
Afghanistan hand South Africa another heavy defeat
Copyright © 2024 Ariana News. All rights reserved!

Title: Women in Conflict: Advancing Women’s Role in Peace and Security | United States Institute of Peace
Search for experts, projects, publications, courses, and more.
Home▶Publications
Testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Transnational Crime, Civilian Security, Democracy, Human Rights, and Global Women’s Issues
Thursday, June 13, 2019/By:Palwasha L. Kakar
By:Palwasha L. Kakar
Publication Type:Congressional Testimony
Palwasha Kakar, senior program officer for religion and inclusive societies, testified on June 13 at the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Transnational Crime, Civilian Security, Democracy, Human Rights, and Global Women’s Issues' hearing on"Women in Conflict: Advancing Women's Role in Peace and Security.”Her expert testimony as prepared is presented below.

Chairman Rubio, Ranking Member Cardin and members of the Subcommittee, thank you for the opportunity to testify on “Women in Conflict: Advancing Women’s Role in Peace and Security” and particularly on women’s involvement in the Afghan peace process. The timing for this hearing is especially important given the escalation in violence in Afghanistan over the past few weeks and the heightened drive for a peaceful solution of the country’s conflicts in the near future.
I am a senior program officer on religion and inclusive societies at the U.S. Institute of Peace (USIP), although the views expressed here are my own. I have over 10 years of experience working in Afghanistan on women’s inclusion, religious engagement, governance and education. I focus at USIP on a comparative country approach analyzing women, religion and peacebuilding in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Libya, Syria, Iraq and Burma. Specifically, based on my experiences in Afghanistan where I have studied religious women who have successfully negotiated with Taliban, women are brokering local cease-fires, helping release hostages, and negotiating to keep girls’ schools open.
Today’s hearing also comes at an opportune moment with the release earlier this week of the U.S. Strategy on Women, Peace, and Security and while the U.S. has committed to a peace process with the Taliban on Afghanistan.
I would like to highlight three main points for the Subcommittee as you consider advancing women’s role in peace and security in the case of Afghanistan:
Afghan women make up more than 50 percent of the population and have experienced the war in a myriad of different ways than men. Yet, in the face of all the challenges, Afghan women have made gains in the past 18 years. They have been involved in key, successful peace settlements at national and local levels. Afghan women have the skills and technical expertise in negotiation, mediation, constitutional reform, transitional justice, and cease-fire monitoring. Currently, Afghan women are well organized and have taken concrete initiatives towards the peace process.
Women in Afghanistan, as in so many countries around the world, have felt the brunt of war. They have been and continue to be attacked, raped, maimed, kidnapped, bought and sold as well as being killed in suicide bombings and general attacks on schools, markets, government buildings and places of worship. Amid all of this, women are expressing their leadership and convictions throughout Afghanistan. Women, who comprised almost 20 percent of the Afghan peace jirga in 2010 and 30 percent this May in 2018, continue to demand they be included in peace processes. As a result of the 2010 jirga, nine women were appointed to the 64-member High Peace Council that came out of the gathering of tribal leaders.
Women’s groups since then have proactively consulted with women across the country to identify their needs and expectations regarding the peace process and communicated their findings to the Afghan government, political leaders and the international community. Women have reached out to Taliban fighters, pleading with them to stop the bloodshed. This is reminiscent of 2014 when the female members of the High Peace Council collected 300,000 signatures calling for peace and cessation of armed hostilities.
Last year, the largest Afghan women’s coordination body, the Afghan Women’s Network (AWN), worked with Afghanistan’s First Lady, Mrs. Rula Ghani and her office, to coordinate nation-wide consultations with women in all 34 provinces of Afghanistan. That effort culminated in a “Declaration of Afghan Women’s National Consensus for Peace” that captured women’s perspectives across the country.
The Afghan Women’s Network consulted with their member organizations and beyond, from all the provinces of Afghanistan, to construct a declaration of women’s demands and their “red lines” leading up to the Moscow talks in February 2019, the subsequent U.S. Taliban Doha talks and the intra-Afghan Doha talks in April and Moscow talks in May. In the run up to intra-Afghan talks with the Taliban in Doha that fell apart in April, the AWN had prepared a delegation of 41 women from diverse backgrounds and the political spectrum, including the government, to participate in the peace talks. When the process for developing a delegation broke down between the male political opposition party members and the government in Kabul, the women went to all the groups to urge the parties to come to an agreement to move the peace process forward while conveying women’s demands. Eventually, the parties were able to draw up a list of delegates and move forward on the process before it fell through. However, women’s civil society organizations did not give up. They came together from across geographic, ethnic, and religious divides to put together a diverse roster of women civil society experts that the U.S. or other international mediators could draw upon for participation and expertise in the peace talks.
Looking back, Afghan women have been part of successful peace processes throughout Afghanistan’s history. Although Ahmed Shah Durrani is credited with founding the modern state of Afghanistan in 1747, it was Nazo Anna whose contribution to uniting the warring tribes against the Persians in 1709 became the lynchpin to founding the Afghan State, earning her the title “Mother of the Afghan Nation.” When the Taliban were driven out of power in 2001 by U.S. troops and allies, women were part of the successful political settlement in the Bonn process and constitution drafting that has led to 18 years of a stable, democratic government - albeit still under attack from the Taliban who were not included in the Bonn process.
Afghan women’s role in the Bonn process was successful and led to the formation of important institutions, including the Afghanistan’s Independent Human Rights Commission and the Ministry of Women’s Affairs. Both were created to address the specific experiences and concerns women had from the conflict. Women were also involved in the constitution drafting processes, including being a part of the drafting council, committee and consultations that ensured women’s equal citizenship, access to education, health care and representational quotas in Parliament.
There were prominent women’s rights activists who boycotted the Bonn process because they wanted the bombing to stop and a lasting peace to be built that included the Taliban in the peace process and political settlement. Many of those women predicted the Taliban would continue to fight and cause instability in the country. According to some Afghan women, as a result of not including the Taliban in the Bonn process , the Taliban are now demanding a clean cut from the Afghan constitution and the political system that was built without their inclusion, despite experts calling it the most Islamic constitution in the world.
After the fall of the Taliban, many Afghan women, especially in the urban centers, saw major and immediate improvements in the quality of their lives and their access to basic rights. In short, after 18 years of American-backed governments, Afghan women and the society have changed significantly for the better with the emergence of female entrepreneurs, political leaders, and even nightly news anchors. The Taliban, by contrast, has made very little progress on women’s issues since being pushed from power in 2001, despite persistent claims to the contrary. The group’s record is spotty at best in the areas of Afghanistan it controls, and its leaders continue to make ominous statements on gender, such as calling for girls’ education to end by age 12 years of age.
Women have also been successful at negotiating on behalf of their communities at the local level. Women are able to navigate across lines of conflict and negotiate settlements using traditional and moral authority. These courageous women have negotiated with Taliban and other armed groups on behalf of their communities to end violence and bring peaceful settlements to issues of conflict around hostages and access to land. At the national level, four women were part of the peace negotiations that ended in a settlement in 2016 between the government and Hekmatyar’s Hezbi-Islami that has so far been successful. This peace agreement was seen as a possible model for the Taliban to follow or at least to see if the government would keep its promises.
Despite these achievements, women continue to be absent or remarkably underrepresented in peace talks. Women’s experiences of exclusion from peace agreements from 1992 to 2001 under the Mujahedin and Taliban regimes show that what is power sharing and peace for men is not peace for women or others left out of the equation, nor is it sustainable. In response, women rights advocates and civil society activists have taken to traditional and social media as well as to international community to express their dismay about their exclusion from dialogues between the government and the representatives of the Taliban.
After nearly 40 years of war, Afghanistan and the international community are urgently seeking paths for a peace process. But amid the tentative efforts -- a three-day cease-fire last June, the peace march across the country by hundreds of Afghans, the Afghan Women’s Peace Movement and talks by led by U.S. envoy Zalmay Khalilzad -- a somber question hangs for women and human rights advocates: How can Afghanistan make peace with the Taliban while protecting democracy and women’s rights? While that question is universal in peacemaking, Afghanistan’s history of abuses against women, including by the Taliban, makes it a tough case. In response, a two million strong social media campaign has taken off with the hashtag:#AfghanWomenWillNotGoBack.
Afghan women have expressed their demands for a peace process that is inclusive and respects the constitution and rule of law through the large national consultation process and civil society leaders’ consultations process. Afghan women want meaningful participation at all levels of the peace process. They firmly reject any backsliding on rights enumerated in Afghanistan’s constitution and legal code. Enforcement must be guaranteed for laws that bar violence against women and abolish discriminatory and unjust practices and traditions.
There is clear consensus by women’s groups that Afghan women’s participation at all levels of the peace process should guarantee that women’s rights be protected in any agreement and there be proper mechanisms and incentivized resources to ensure the agreement is upheld, including women’s monitoring of the peace agreement. Furthermore, they are calling for an immediate cease-fire to create space for a meaningful peace process to begin.
Afghan women across the country in solidarity with Afghan men, peace marches, Afghan Ulema and broader civil society are calling for a hashtag#CeasefireForPeace. They are calling for an end to the bloodshed and demanding that the violence stop immediately. This call for a cease-fire is a call for trust building with the Afghan public to create room for meaningful dialogue and reconciliation to begin as part of the peace process.
All recent surveys, including the Survey of the Afghan People, have shown that women are most concerned about security. This does not mean that they want the U.S. military to stay in Afghanistan forever. What they are asking for is a responsible withdrawal that leaves behind a well-trained Afghan security force and an inclusive and sustainable peace agreement that protects women’s rights, democratic institutions and the constitutional order.
Afghan women are urging the international community, and the U.S. specifically, to ensure women and girls are protected through this precarious transition process by supporting and funding the ANSF and police. They fear that if the U.S. pulls out its military without these safe guards, more instability with arise in the vacuum and women will again be disproportionately impacted. They fear an irresponsible pull out of the military will perpetuate the war, similar to the effect of the Soviet’s pulling out its military in the 1990s that led to even more war. Afghan women fear this possibility, but they are not asking the U.S. military to stay forever, but to leave responsibly and with systems in place in Afghanistan that protect women and establish stability and security on the ground from possible future extremist threats.
In conclusion, Afghan women are essential to a successful process and are demanding meaningful participation in the peace process at all levels, respect for their rights in the constitutional order and protection from violence through this process to ensure a sustainable peace for their homeland.
The view expressed in this testimony are those of the author and not the U.S. Institute of Peace.

Interim Director, Religion and Inclusive Societies
USIP has a variety of newsletters and announcements with the latest analysis, publications and events.
Thursday, September 19, 2024
By:Belquis Ahmadi;Joyana Richer;Jill Baggerman;William Byrd, Ph.D.;Scott Worden
By:Belquis Ahmadi;Joyana Richer;Jill Baggerman;William Byrd, Ph.D.;Scott Worden
Lacking formal recognition from all member states, the Taliban will not be present at the U.N. General Assembly next week. Their absence speaks volumes about how the international community struggles to constrain a regime that has repeatedly defied U.N. treaties, sanctions and Security Council resolutions. Three years into Taliban rule, the Afghan people are beset by a host of human rights, economic and humanitarian challenges, with women and girls particularly impacted. Meanwhile, the international community still has no clear approach to dealing with the Taliban, with the regime rejecting a U.N. Security Council resolution calling for a special envoy to develop a roadmap for normalizing Afghanistan’s relations with the international community.
Type:Question and Answer
Economics;Gender;Global Policy;Human Rights
Wednesday, September 18, 2024
By:Belquis Ahmadi;Lauren Baillie;  Grace Luloff
By:Belquis Ahmadi;Lauren Baillie;  Grace Luloff
Since the Taliban took power in August 2021, the situation for Afghan women and girls has dramatically deteriorated. Yet there has been little international action, as many in the international community lament the lack of legal, and other, avenues to hold the Taliban accountable for these draconian measures. However, a recent case at the International Criminal Court (ICC) may provide a legal roadmap to prosecute the Taliban.
Type:Analysis
Gender;Human Rights;Justice, Security & Rule of Law
Wednesday, August 7, 2024
By:Abbos Bobokhonov
By:Abbos Bobokhonov
In recent years, Beijing has been reevaluating its conceptual framework for foreign policy, with a focus on enhancing its role in global governance. With the aim of transforming China into the world's leading country, Chinese leader Xi Jinping has put forward a number of new initiatives — including the Global Security Initiative (GSI) — as a way of creating new formats of cooperation between China and the countries of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and Global South.
Type:Analysis
Economics;Global Policy
Tuesday, July 16, 2024
By:Andrew Watkins
By:Andrew Watkins
At the end of June, envoys and representatives from more than 25 countries and international organizations gathered in Doha, Qatar, along with representatives from the Taliban under an U.N.-facilitated framework. This meeting was the third of its kind, widely referred to as “Doha 3,” and part of a process to establish a more coordinated and coherent global approach to Afghanistan’s challenges and the Taliban’s rule.
Type:Analysis
Global Policy
Wednesday, August 14, 2024
Wednesday, August 14, 2024
Wednesday, August 14, 2024
Wednesday, August 14, 2024
2301 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037Tel: +1.202.457.1700
AboutPublicationsProjectsGrants & FellowshipsVisitConnectPressBlog
The United States Institute of PeaceLegal and Privacy Information|FOIA Inquiries

Title: Women in Conflict: Advancing Women’s Role in Peace and Security | United States Institute of Peace
Search for experts, projects, publications, courses, and more.
Home▶Publications
Testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Transnational Crime, Civilian Security, Democracy, Human Rights, and Global Women’s Issues
Thursday, June 13, 2019/By:Palwasha L. Kakar
By:Palwasha L. Kakar
Publication Type:Congressional Testimony
Palwasha Kakar, senior program officer for religion and inclusive societies, testified on June 13 at the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere, Transnational Crime, Civilian Security, Democracy, Human Rights, and Global Women’s Issues' hearing on"Women in Conflict: Advancing Women's Role in Peace and Security.”Her expert testimony as prepared is presented below.

Chairman Rubio, Ranking Member Cardin and members of the Subcommittee, thank you for the opportunity to testify on “Women in Conflict: Advancing Women’s Role in Peace and Security” and particularly on women’s involvement in the Afghan peace process. The timing for this hearing is especially important given the escalation in violence in Afghanistan over the past few weeks and the heightened drive for a peaceful solution of the country’s conflicts in the near future.
I am a senior program officer on religion and inclusive societies at the U.S. Institute of Peace (USIP), although the views expressed here are my own. I have over 10 years of experience working in Afghanistan on women’s inclusion, religious engagement, governance and education. I focus at USIP on a comparative country approach analyzing women, religion and peacebuilding in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Libya, Syria, Iraq and Burma. Specifically, based on my experiences in Afghanistan where I have studied religious women who have successfully negotiated with Taliban, women are brokering local cease-fires, helping release hostages, and negotiating to keep girls’ schools open.
Today’s hearing also comes at an opportune moment with the release earlier this week of the U.S. Strategy on Women, Peace, and Security and while the U.S. has committed to a peace process with the Taliban on Afghanistan.
I would like to highlight three main points for the Subcommittee as you consider advancing women’s role in peace and security in the case of Afghanistan:
Afghan women make up more than 50 percent of the population and have experienced the war in a myriad of different ways than men. Yet, in the face of all the challenges, Afghan women have made gains in the past 18 years. They have been involved in key, successful peace settlements at national and local levels. Afghan women have the skills and technical expertise in negotiation, mediation, constitutional reform, transitional justice, and cease-fire monitoring. Currently, Afghan women are well organized and have taken concrete initiatives towards the peace process.
Women in Afghanistan, as in so many countries around the world, have felt the brunt of war. They have been and continue to be attacked, raped, maimed, kidnapped, bought and sold as well as being killed in suicide bombings and general attacks on schools, markets, government buildings and places of worship. Amid all of this, women are expressing their leadership and convictions throughout Afghanistan. Women, who comprised almost 20 percent of the Afghan peace jirga in 2010 and 30 percent this May in 2018, continue to demand they be included in peace processes. As a result of the 2010 jirga, nine women were appointed to the 64-member High Peace Council that came out of the gathering of tribal leaders.
Women’s groups since then have proactively consulted with women across the country to identify their needs and expectations regarding the peace process and communicated their findings to the Afghan government, political leaders and the international community. Women have reached out to Taliban fighters, pleading with them to stop the bloodshed. This is reminiscent of 2014 when the female members of the High Peace Council collected 300,000 signatures calling for peace and cessation of armed hostilities.
Last year, the largest Afghan women’s coordination body, the Afghan Women’s Network (AWN), worked with Afghanistan’s First Lady, Mrs. Rula Ghani and her office, to coordinate nation-wide consultations with women in all 34 provinces of Afghanistan. That effort culminated in a “Declaration of Afghan Women’s National Consensus for Peace” that captured women’s perspectives across the country.
The Afghan Women’s Network consulted with their member organizations and beyond, from all the provinces of Afghanistan, to construct a declaration of women’s demands and their “red lines” leading up to the Moscow talks in February 2019, the subsequent U.S. Taliban Doha talks and the intra-Afghan Doha talks in April and Moscow talks in May. In the run up to intra-Afghan talks with the Taliban in Doha that fell apart in April, the AWN had prepared a delegation of 41 women from diverse backgrounds and the political spectrum, including the government, to participate in the peace talks. When the process for developing a delegation broke down between the male political opposition party members and the government in Kabul, the women went to all the groups to urge the parties to come to an agreement to move the peace process forward while conveying women’s demands. Eventually, the parties were able to draw up a list of delegates and move forward on the process before it fell through. However, women’s civil society organizations did not give up. They came together from across geographic, ethnic, and religious divides to put together a diverse roster of women civil society experts that the U.S. or other international mediators could draw upon for participation and expertise in the peace talks.
Looking back, Afghan women have been part of successful peace processes throughout Afghanistan’s history. Although Ahmed Shah Durrani is credited with founding the modern state of Afghanistan in 1747, it was Nazo Anna whose contribution to uniting the warring tribes against the Persians in 1709 became the lynchpin to founding the Afghan State, earning her the title “Mother of the Afghan Nation.” When the Taliban were driven out of power in 2001 by U.S. troops and allies, women were part of the successful political settlement in the Bonn process and constitution drafting that has led to 18 years of a stable, democratic government - albeit still under attack from the Taliban who were not included in the Bonn process.
Afghan women’s role in the Bonn process was successful and led to the formation of important institutions, including the Afghanistan’s Independent Human Rights Commission and the Ministry of Women’s Affairs. Both were created to address the specific experiences and concerns women had from the conflict. Women were also involved in the constitution drafting processes, including being a part of the drafting council, committee and consultations that ensured women’s equal citizenship, access to education, health care and representational quotas in Parliament.
There were prominent women’s rights activists who boycotted the Bonn process because they wanted the bombing to stop and a lasting peace to be built that included the Taliban in the peace process and political settlement. Many of those women predicted the Taliban would continue to fight and cause instability in the country. According to some Afghan women, as a result of not including the Taliban in the Bonn process , the Taliban are now demanding a clean cut from the Afghan constitution and the political system that was built without their inclusion, despite experts calling it the most Islamic constitution in the world.
After the fall of the Taliban, many Afghan women, especially in the urban centers, saw major and immediate improvements in the quality of their lives and their access to basic rights. In short, after 18 years of American-backed governments, Afghan women and the society have changed significantly for the better with the emergence of female entrepreneurs, political leaders, and even nightly news anchors. The Taliban, by contrast, has made very little progress on women’s issues since being pushed from power in 2001, despite persistent claims to the contrary. The group’s record is spotty at best in the areas of Afghanistan it controls, and its leaders continue to make ominous statements on gender, such as calling for girls’ education to end by age 12 years of age.
Women have also been successful at negotiating on behalf of their communities at the local level. Women are able to navigate across lines of conflict and negotiate settlements using traditional and moral authority. These courageous women have negotiated with Taliban and other armed groups on behalf of their communities to end violence and bring peaceful settlements to issues of conflict around hostages and access to land. At the national level, four women were part of the peace negotiations that ended in a settlement in 2016 between the government and Hekmatyar’s Hezbi-Islami that has so far been successful. This peace agreement was seen as a possible model for the Taliban to follow or at least to see if the government would keep its promises.
Despite these achievements, women continue to be absent or remarkably underrepresented in peace talks. Women’s experiences of exclusion from peace agreements from 1992 to 2001 under the Mujahedin and Taliban regimes show that what is power sharing and peace for men is not peace for women or others left out of the equation, nor is it sustainable. In response, women rights advocates and civil society activists have taken to traditional and social media as well as to international community to express their dismay about their exclusion from dialogues between the government and the representatives of the Taliban.
After nearly 40 years of war, Afghanistan and the international community are urgently seeking paths for a peace process. But amid the tentative efforts -- a three-day cease-fire last June, the peace march across the country by hundreds of Afghans, the Afghan Women’s Peace Movement and talks by led by U.S. envoy Zalmay Khalilzad -- a somber question hangs for women and human rights advocates: How can Afghanistan make peace with the Taliban while protecting democracy and women’s rights? While that question is universal in peacemaking, Afghanistan’s history of abuses against women, including by the Taliban, makes it a tough case. In response, a two million strong social media campaign has taken off with the hashtag:#AfghanWomenWillNotGoBack.
Afghan women have expressed their demands for a peace process that is inclusive and respects the constitution and rule of law through the large national consultation process and civil society leaders’ consultations process. Afghan women want meaningful participation at all levels of the peace process. They firmly reject any backsliding on rights enumerated in Afghanistan’s constitution and legal code. Enforcement must be guaranteed for laws that bar violence against women and abolish discriminatory and unjust practices and traditions.
There is clear consensus by women’s groups that Afghan women’s participation at all levels of the peace process should guarantee that women’s rights be protected in any agreement and there be proper mechanisms and incentivized resources to ensure the agreement is upheld, including women’s monitoring of the peace agreement. Furthermore, they are calling for an immediate cease-fire to create space for a meaningful peace process to begin.
Afghan women across the country in solidarity with Afghan men, peace marches, Afghan Ulema and broader civil society are calling for a hashtag#CeasefireForPeace. They are calling for an end to the bloodshed and demanding that the violence stop immediately. This call for a cease-fire is a call for trust building with the Afghan public to create room for meaningful dialogue and reconciliation to begin as part of the peace process.
All recent surveys, including the Survey of the Afghan People, have shown that women are most concerned about security. This does not mean that they want the U.S. military to stay in Afghanistan forever. What they are asking for is a responsible withdrawal that leaves behind a well-trained Afghan security force and an inclusive and sustainable peace agreement that protects women’s rights, democratic institutions and the constitutional order.
Afghan women are urging the international community, and the U.S. specifically, to ensure women and girls are protected through this precarious transition process by supporting and funding the ANSF and police. They fear that if the U.S. pulls out its military without these safe guards, more instability with arise in the vacuum and women will again be disproportionately impacted. They fear an irresponsible pull out of the military will perpetuate the war, similar to the effect of the Soviet’s pulling out its military in the 1990s that led to even more war. Afghan women fear this possibility, but they are not asking the U.S. military to stay forever, but to leave responsibly and with systems in place in Afghanistan that protect women and establish stability and security on the ground from possible future extremist threats.
In conclusion, Afghan women are essential to a successful process and are demanding meaningful participation in the peace process at all levels, respect for their rights in the constitutional order and protection from violence through this process to ensure a sustainable peace for their homeland.
The view expressed in this testimony are those of the author and not the U.S. Institute of Peace.

Interim Director, Religion and Inclusive Societies
USIP has a variety of newsletters and announcements with the latest analysis, publications and events.
Thursday, September 19, 2024
By:Belquis Ahmadi;Joyana Richer;Jill Baggerman;William Byrd, Ph.D.;Scott Worden
By:Belquis Ahmadi;Joyana Richer;Jill Baggerman;William Byrd, Ph.D.;Scott Worden
Lacking formal recognition from all member states, the Taliban will not be present at the U.N. General Assembly next week. Their absence speaks volumes about how the international community struggles to constrain a regime that has repeatedly defied U.N. treaties, sanctions and Security Council resolutions. Three years into Taliban rule, the Afghan people are beset by a host of human rights, economic and humanitarian challenges, with women and girls particularly impacted. Meanwhile, the international community still has no clear approach to dealing with the Taliban, with the regime rejecting a U.N. Security Council resolution calling for a special envoy to develop a roadmap for normalizing Afghanistan’s relations with the international community.
Type:Question and Answer
Economics;Gender;Global Policy;Human Rights
Wednesday, September 18, 2024
By:Belquis Ahmadi;Lauren Baillie;  Grace Luloff
By:Belquis Ahmadi;Lauren Baillie;  Grace Luloff
Since the Taliban took power in August 2021, the situation for Afghan women and girls has dramatically deteriorated. Yet there has been little international action, as many in the international community lament the lack of legal, and other, avenues to hold the Taliban accountable for these draconian measures. However, a recent case at the International Criminal Court (ICC) may provide a legal roadmap to prosecute the Taliban.
Type:Analysis
Gender;Human Rights;Justice, Security & Rule of Law
Wednesday, August 7, 2024
By:Abbos Bobokhonov
By:Abbos Bobokhonov
In recent years, Beijing has been reevaluating its conceptual framework for foreign policy, with a focus on enhancing its role in global governance. With the aim of transforming China into the world's leading country, Chinese leader Xi Jinping has put forward a number of new initiatives — including the Global Security Initiative (GSI) — as a way of creating new formats of cooperation between China and the countries of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and Global South.
Type:Analysis
Economics;Global Policy
Tuesday, July 16, 2024
By:Andrew Watkins
By:Andrew Watkins
At the end of June, envoys and representatives from more than 25 countries and international organizations gathered in Doha, Qatar, along with representatives from the Taliban under an U.N.-facilitated framework. This meeting was the third of its kind, widely referred to as “Doha 3,” and part of a process to establish a more coordinated and coherent global approach to Afghanistan’s challenges and the Taliban’s rule.
Type:Analysis
Global Policy
Wednesday, August 14, 2024
Wednesday, August 14, 2024
Wednesday, August 14, 2024
Wednesday, August 14, 2024
2301 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037Tel: +1.202.457.1700
AboutPublicationsProjectsGrants & FellowshipsVisitConnectPressBlog
The United States Institute of PeaceLegal and Privacy Information|FOIA Inquiries

Title: Afghanistan: Drought - DREF Operation Final Report Operation n° MDRAF004 - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
A. SITUATION ANALYSIS
Description of the disaster
Afghanistan’s climate can be characterized by hot and dry summers and cold winters. Most of the annual precipitation takes place in the northern region in the form of snow. Afghanistan is highly prone to intense and recurring natural hazards such as flooding, earthquakes, snow avalanches, landslides and droughts due to its geographical location and years of environmental degradation. Climate change is also posing a threat to the country’s people and ecosystems. Climate change predictions such as changing temperature and precipitation pattern might lead to extreme weather event such as drought and flash floods. Changing weather is also affecting the productivity of agriculture, of which most Afghans depend on for their livelihoods, causing food security problem. Most areas in Afghanistan have experienced between four to six consecutive seasons of far below average rainfall over the last three years. This has resulted in significant reductions in snow depths, river flows, water level in dams, water tables, and soil moistures. In July 2018, the Famine Early Warning System (FEWS) reported that 22 out of 34 provinces of Afghanistan, its cumulative rain and snowfall during October 2017 to May 2018 was 30 to 60 per cent below average. These conditions have already negatively and irreversibly impacted the agricultural season in Afghanistan. In addition, due to four decades of war and lack of planned development and adequate management of natural resources, deforestation enhances the impact of dry spells and drought. Repeated cycles of drought and verging on pre-famine conditions in many areas have increased vulnerabilities, resulted in the loss of crops, livelihoods and livestock, and weakened purchasing power.
According to the data presented by OCHA on 13 September 2018, the drought affected IDPs were estimated at 266,000. 84,000 of them are settled in Herat, and 182,000 within Badghis, their province of origin. In October 2018, more than 84,000 people have been displaced to Herat city and 18,579 families (94,945 people) have been displaced to Qala-eNaw City (capital of Badghis province). IDPs are residing in dozens of sites on the outskirts of the cities, or in makeshift shelters within the main cities. This makes it more difficult to reach them in a smaller number of catchment areas.
Four years of failed rains have led to massive loss of livelihoods for millions of Afghans in the northwestern provinces. Ninety-five per cent of the population there rely on agriculture, livestock and crops to survive. People have been left without enough food to feed their families. The upcoming severe winter months will likely deteriorate their situation. Temperature in these areas has already dropped close to zero degrees at night, the coming weeks will really be testing for the drought affected families with freezing conditions, potentially resulting into winter related sickness and potential deaths. On 16 October 2018 the United Nations’ Afghanistan Humanitarian Fund (AHF) and Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) have released funds to support people affected by a severe drought.
The overall response in drought-affected communities has been hampered by the access restrictions caused by security concerns. Humanitarian actors, including the Red Cross Red Crescent (RCRC) Movement, have had very limited access in the past three months. For instance, Ghazni City was attacked by an armed opposition group (AOG) which took control of the locality straddling the highways. An ensuing fight resulted in displacement and deaths, including of civilians. The UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) has reported that there were 210 civilian casualties during the month of August 2018. In addition, the RCRC Movement encountered access limitations following a declaration by an AOG in mid-August that security guarantees given to RCRC operation in Afghanistan would be withdrawn. This resulted in restricted personnel movement and reduced operational capacity pending dialogue to address concerns of the AOG. After weeks of dialogue, security guaranties to the RCRC Movement were restored on 14 October 2018. These developments have now set the pace for RCRC Movement partners to gradually resume activities, including to roll out interventions in support of communities affected by food insecurity. In this context, DREF was requested by the NS to support drought affected population in Herat and Badghis and IFRC country office launched a DREF.. Beyond that DREF support, a scaled-up response, utilizing other established resource mobilization channels, were envisioned.
Famine Early Warning System Network (FEWSNET) reports in Ocober 2018, alarmed that in the absence of adequate humanitarian assistance for drought affected communities the severity of drought is likely to be one step worst in most part of the country in coming months. Resulting in the further expansion of crises situation in north, northwest, central and south-central provinces and that started the emergency phase in northwestern provinces of the country. People in these areas were expected to face more challenges to meet their consumption requirements until the next year spring harvest. The onset of severe winter also created a large food deficit for the worst affected households, and the drought affected population is critical need of food and livelihood assistance during this lean season. Crisis (IPC Phase 3) outcomes present throughout Afghanistan due to declining purchasing power, disruption of normal livelihoods due to conflict, and poor rainfed staple performance and contributed to the increased food assistance needs as compared to recent years. Poor household dependent on rainfed wheat production, particularly in northern, northeastern, and northwestern areas, expected to experience difficulty meeting consumption requirements until next year’s spring harvest. The worst-affected households were likely experience Emergency (IPC Phase 4) as large food deficits emerge with the onset of winter.
Households started preparing for the winter wheat planting season in October 2018. The area planted for winter wheat was anticipated to be higher than last year due to the increased likelihood of El Niño. Due to the forecasted El Niño, there was an increased likelihood of average to above-average precipitation during the 2018/19 wet season however, there remains a large spread of possible precipitation outcomes for the season.
FEWSNET projected food assistance outlook for the lean season Dec 2018 - April 2019 (issued on 30 Sep) says “Belowaverage precipitation in most areas and drought in northern parts of the country has negatively impacted wheat production, livestock body conditions, and labor opportunities. Large areas of the country are anticipated to experience Crisis (IPC Phase 3) outcomes in February at the peak of the lean season. In the worst-off drought-affected areas,Emergency (IPC Phase 4) outcomes are anticipated”.
Summary of response
Overview of Host National Society
The Afghan Red Crescent Society (ARCS) remain vigilant and have been monitoring the situation since the start of dry spell. ARCS is in close coordination with Afghan National Disaster Management Authority (ANDMA), Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) and Food Security and Agriculture Cluster (FSAC). Observing the gravity of the situation in September and October 2018, ARCS headquarter requested all 34 provincial branches to submit primary information reports regarding drought situation in their respective provinces. ARCS Emergency Operations Centre (EOC) was activated to coordinate with relevant stakeholders and update on the situation on regular basis. ARCS started coordination meetings with in country movement partners, since May 2018.
Based on the primary information reports from the branches ARCS developed its draft response plan and conducted an access mapping in the affected provinces. The access mapping was shared with movement partners as well for their comments and input. ARCS is also coordinating with clusters and national disaster management authorities. ARCS has developed a very initial response plan for drought 2018 and is committed to provide humanitarian assistance in the areas where unmet emergency needs have been identified by the Inter Cluster Coordination Team (ICCT) and ARCS provincial branches. ARCS drought response plan is to meet the immediate needs of 105,000 drought affected people (15,000 families) in the areas of food, nutrition, livelihood, health, WASH and emergency shelter. Tentative timeline for ARCS drought response is one year starting from August 2018 to July 2019.
ARCS drought response plan is flexible to adapt the changing needs and access situation, two major contributors to update ARCS response plans are; continuous need assessment: needs and unmet needs are changing on ground due to evolving nature of drought and changes in available resources with humanitarian actors. Continuous Access monitoring: On ground access is frequently changing due to unpredictable security situation in the country and ongoing fight between Armed Opposition Groups (AOGs) and Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF).
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Is Pakistan suppressing foreign media? – DW – 02/08/2018
The shutting down of a US-funded Pashto-language radio station has raised concern over Pakistani authorities clamping down on free speech and Western media outlets in the country. Shah Meer Baloch reports.
Pakistan's Interior Ministry suspended the operations of Radio Mashaal on January 19, following accusations bythe nation's spy agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI)that its programs were "against the interests of Pakistan."
Many journalists, politicians and activists view the move as a crackdown on free speech and the Western media in Pakistan.
Launched in 2010, Radio Mashaal is the local name of the US Congress-funded Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty's (RFE/RL) Pashto-language service in Pakistan. It was introduced as a public service to counter theextremist narrative of the Taliban in Pakistan's mountainous regionsthat border Afghanistan. Foreign media rarely gain access to these areas.
ISI alleged that Radio Mashaal's programs portrayedPakistan as a hub of terrorism and a safe haven for militant groups, propagated an image of Pakistan as a failed state in terms of providing security to its minorities and Pashtuns, showed the Pashtun population of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK), Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) and Baluchistan as being disenchanted with the state, and distorted facts to incite people against the state and its institutions.
An essential source of information?
Insisting that Radio Mashaal serves no intelligence agency or government, RFE/RL President Tom Kent clarified that it is an essential source of reliable, balanced information for its Pakistani audience.
"Our reporters are Pakistani citizens who are dedicated to their country and live and raise families in the villages in which they report. We demand that their safety be ensured, and that they be permitted to resume their work without fear or delay."
Read more:Pakistan struggles to bring tribal areas into mainstream
Terror attacks - Af-Pak relations hit a new low
Mir Mohammad Ali Talpur, a Pakistani activist and columnist, told DW that this is another attempt by the Pakistani state to curb free expression of opinion that does not coincide with the official narrative.
"It is indeed a crackdown not only against the Western media; all opinions counter to the Pakistani narrative will be punished," he said. Talpur and Mohammad Taqi, a Pakistani-American columnist, were stopped from writing for theDaily Timesin November 2015 because their writing was considered "anti-state" for exposing injustices in KPK and Baluchistan.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
Clampdown on Western media
Taha Siddiqui, a journalist and France24 correspondent in Pakistan, says that the crackdown on Western media has intensified since 2013, when a former New York Times Islamabad bureau chief, Declan Walsh, was deported from Pakistan without sound reason. Siddiqui himself escaped an abduction attempt by unidentified armed men on January 10, 2018, in Islamabad.
The government's move came afterrelations soured between Pakistan and the United States, which suspended nearly $2 billion (€1.63 billion) in military assistance after accusing Islamabad of supporting Taliban militants causing chaos in neighboring Afghanistan.
The US State Department has "expressed concern" over Radio Mashaal's suspension and has "demanded that the transmission be restored immediately." Siddiqui explained that the government is helpless against the deep state, namely the ISI, which wants to control the Western media as it does local news agencies.
"But it cannot because the Western media have their own values such as free speech and objective and impartial reporting that challenge the state's narrative. So they have started this propaganda against the Western media and their correspondents, trying to make them suspicious in the eyes of the Pakistani public that they are Western agents and involved in anti-state activities."
Speaking to DW on condition of anonymity, a Radio Mashaal reporter insisted that they are not anti-state. "We are proud Pakistanis, but we do impartial reporting in a country where many journalists have been killed."
A matter of formality, not censorship
Senator Afrasiab Khattak, a senior leader of the Awami National Party, has said that controlling the media and restricting free speech is detrimental to democracy. "We can't become a democratic state until we promote free speech," he told DW. Yet, experts believe that the state controls much of the Pakistani media via financial restrictions and other means, but resorts to propaganda and clampdowns when dealing with foreign media.
Meanwhile, Yasir Shakil, the interior ministry's public relations officer, said the suspension was due to the 7-year-old service's failure to fulfil licensing formalities.
"It has not received approval from the Pakistan Telecommunication Authority (PTA), nor has it gotten clearance from the Pakistani intelligence agencies to operate within Pakistan. It has also not followed Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and was involved in reporting against our national interests. Therefore, on the recommendations of ISI, we suspended its services," he told DW, while refusing to comment on whether this was a crackdown.
Read more:'Submit or suffer' - Rappler shutdown worries Philippine media
However, RFE/RL has been documenting increased threats against Mashaal journalists over the past two years. Freedom House, a US-funded watchdog, has designated Pakistan as "not free," while the Committee to Protect Journalists ranks Pakistan as the fifth-deadliest country, and the most dangerous country in South Asia for the media and journalists.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video

Title: 'The Pakistani army is afraid of our popularity' – DW – 06/05/2019
The Pakistani military is facing immense opposition in the restive northwestern region — not from the Taliban, but rather a popular anti-war Pashtun movement, whose leader Manzoor Pashteen spoke to DW about the conflict.
On May 26, an armed confrontation between Pakistani troops and supporters of a Pashtun nationalist movement left at least 13 people dead and 25 others wounded, including five soldiers. The incident took place at Khar Kamar checkpoint in the North Waziristan region, near the Afghan border.
The protest was led by two members of parliament — Ali Wazir and Mohsin Dawar — who are members of thePashtun Tahafuz Movement(PTM). The military arrested both parliamentarians for allegedly attacking the Khar Kamar checkpoint.
The PTM has gained considerable strength in the past two years, drawing tens of thousands of people to its protest rallies. Its supporters are critical of the war on terror, which they sayhas ravaged Pashtun areasin both Afghanistan and Pakistan.
The PTM demands an end to extra-judicial killings and arbitrary detentions of Pashtuns in the name of the war on terror. The movement has struck a chord with thousands of Pashtuns, who blame both the Pakistani military and jihadists for destruction in their region.
Read more:Pakistan's Manzoor Pashteen: 'Pashtuns are fed up with war'
The Pashtun issue has been a sensitive one for Pakistan since the South Asian country gained independence from British rule in 1947. With a large Pashtun population in both Afghanistan and Pakistan, the idea of an independent Pashtun-majority homeland baffled Pakistan right from the beginning. Some experts say Pakistani authorities favored Islamization of the region to rein in the "Pashtunistan" movement, led by liberal and secular politicians and activists.
Read more:What is Pakistan's militancy issue all about?
The Afghan government, which usually refrains from commenting on Pakistan's domestic politics, has praised PTM leader Manzoor Pashteen's campaign in the past. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani shared several tweets about the "Pashtun march" in February 2018, hoping that it would succeed in "uprooting and eradicating terrorism from the region."
Last month, Major General Asif Ghafoor, a spokesman for the Pakistani military, accused the PTM leadership of working against the country. He alleged that the PTM is receiving money from Indian and Afghan intelligence agencies.
In an interview with DW, Pashteen talked about the clash in May with Pakistani troops and the "anti-state" allegations against his movement.
DW: Why didn't you immediately respond to the May 26 clash?
Manzoor Pashteen: We don't speak out without evidence. Until I received credible evidence of what exactly happened [on May 26], I refrained from commenting on it.
You accused Pakistan's security forces of targeting PTM supporters? Why would the military attack peaceful protesters?
The PTM has two elected representatives in parliament who speak out against the policies of our state institutions. The army doesn't like it. It is trying to remove such critics from our (elected) assemblies.
The people in our tribal areas have long demanded that the number of their [parliamentary] seats be increased so that they get better representation. A constitutional amendment, tabled by one of our lawmakers, Mohsin Dawar, was finally passed by the parliament. The army is wary of Dawar's popularity in his constituency. It fears that despite its attempts to rig the upcoming [local] election, PTM candidates are likely to win in the tribal areas. That is why they arrested Dawar.
The incident also shows that the government is not interested in allowing any political activity in the [tribal] region. By opening fire on demonstrators and then not allowing local media to report on it, the army is sending a clear message that it is against democratic activities in the region.
Read more:Pashtuns rise up against war, Taliban and Pakistani military
Your movement is accused of being anti-Pakistan. How would you respond to this allegation?
We are not anti-Pakistan; we are only anti-terrorism. We are against oppression in all its forms – be it perpetrated by "good or bad Taliban" or by the Pakistani military's intelligence agencies.
Read more:Malala's father: 'Pakistan's security policies need a paradigm shift'
But critics say that your slogans are provocative and that they directly attack the military?
Our slogans are not anti-state, but anti-terror. By denouncing our demonstrations against terrorism as anti-state, the army is doing a disservice to our country. When people in our rallies raise slogans that "those responsible for terrorism are the ones in [military] uniform," they only refer to what a number of senior Pakistani generals have confessed publicly in the past. Even Prime Minister Imran Khan once said that our military generals were involved in promoting these (militant) activities.
We'll continue to demand our rights through peaceful protests and rallies.
Manzoor Pashteen is the leader of the Pashtun Tahafuz Movement (Movement for the protection of Pashtuns, PTM).
The interview was conducted by Mudassar Shah.


Title: 12 Haqqani network commanders killed in Afghanistan
Kabul, June 10 :At least 12 commanders of Haqqani network were killed in an operation by Afghan forces in the country's Khost province, officials said on Monday.
The National Directorate of Security (NDS) -- Afghanistan's intelligence agency -- said in a statement that the commanders were involved in destructive and terrorist activities in the province, TOLO News reported.
One member of the Haqqani network was wounded and three others were arrested in the operation which was carried out in Sabari district, the statement said.
A number of weapons and explosives were also seized during the operation.
The Haqqani network is deemed a strong aide to theTalibanand is widely active in Afghanistan's provinces of Khost, Paktia and Paktika.

Title: 12 Haqqani network commanders killed in Afghanistan
KABUL: At least 12 commanders of Haqqani network were killed in an operation by Afghan forces in the country's Khost province, officials said on Monday.
The National Directorate of Security (NDS) -- Afghanistan's intelligence agency -- said in a statement that the commanders were involved in destructive and terrorist activities in the province, TOLO News reported.
One member of the Haqqani network was wounded and three others were arrested in the operation which was carried out in Sabari district, the statement said.
A number of weapons and explosives were also seized during the operation.
The Haqqani network is deemed a strong aide to the Taliban and is widely active in Afghanistan's provinces of Khost, Paktia and Paktika.
Follow The New Indian Express channel on WhatsApp
Download the TNIE app to stay with us and follow the latest

Copyright - newindianexpress.com 2024. All rights reserved.


Title: At least 12 commanders of Haqqani network were killed in an operation by Afghan forces in the country s Khost province officials said on Monday
Kabul: At least 12 commanders of Haqqani network were killed in an operation by Afghan forces in the country’s Khost province, officials said on Monday. The National Directorate of Security (NDS) — Afghanistan’s intelligence agency — said in a statement that the commanders were involved in destructive and terrorist activities in the province, TOLO News […]
Afghan1
Kabul: At least 12 commanders of Haqqani network were killed in an operation by Afghan forces in the country's Khost province, officials said on Monday.
The National Directorate of Security (NDS) -- Afghanistan's intelligence agency -- said in a statement that the commanders were involved in destructive and terrorist activities in the province, TOLO News reported.
One member of the Haqqani network was wounded and three others were arrested in the operation which was carried out in Sabari district, the statement said.
A number of weapons and explosives were also seized during the operation.
The Haqqani network is deemed a strong aide to the Taliban and is widely active in Afghanistan's provinces of Khost, Paktia and Paktika.
Join and get latest news update delivered to you via whatsapp
Copyright © 2024 - Odisha Television Limited All Rights Reserved.

Title: Yahoo Search - Web Search
As of August 26th, 2021 Yahoo India will no longer be publishing content. Your Yahoo Account, Mail and Search experiences will not be affected in any way and will operate as usual. We thank you for your support and readership.

Title: Haqqani militants visit family members of 20-year-old killed rebel – The Frontier Post
KABUL (Afghanistan Time): The two with ling beard on faces are commanders of Haqqani Terrorist Network—a notorious one which has been involved in several deadly attacks in Kabul, the capital city, and around the country.
These militants approached to inform relatives of around 20 years old boy in Totalai town of district Buner near to Swabi Zkhyber Pakhtunkhwa who was killed in action near Jalalabad, the provincial city of Nangarhar province on 1st of Ramadan (5th of May), sources reported Saturday.
According to Haqqani terrorist members 25 Pakistanis was killed on the same day. According to the source, they failed in retrieving of the dead bodies also belongs to Lakki Marwat Charsada and Swabi districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Former provincial minister and Awami National Party Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Secretary General Sardar Hussain Babak who belong to Totalai Buner met with the commanders of Haqqani Terrorist Network and told them to stop the business of killing and dead bodies as it is un-Islamic.
Years back the founder of the notorious Taliban-linked Haqqani network, which for decades was responsible for suicide bombings and other terror activities in Afghanistan, has died.
Jalaluddin Haqqani died after a long battle with illness, where according to Taliban he had been ill and bed-ridden for the past several years.
The Haqqani network was formally designated a terrorist organization by the United States in 2012.
It has been for years that the government of Afghanistan is opening the eye of international community and US administration over strong link between Pakistani military establishment and the country’s spy agency with Haqqani Terrorist Network, and Taliban group. Pakistan continues to maintain ties with Haqqani terrorist network and allows Taliban leaders to operate out of havens in the country.
Copyright © 2024. All right reservedThe Frontier Post