Title: Taliban should talk to Afghan govt: ex-minister
ISLAMABAD: Former Interior Minister and PPP leader Senator A Rehman Malik has said that the ongoing talks between Taliban and Afghan government are getting complicated as Taliban are not agreeing to sit with Afghan government.“It is strange that Taliban can sit with Americans and Chinese but why cannot they sit with their own fellow Muslim countrymen. It shows that Taliban are not sincere in Afghan peace process and don’t want a peaceful Afghanistan,” he said in a statement on Thursday.In a series of messages on Twitter, he writes, “I appeal to Taliban to appreciate the efforts of Pakistan towards peace in Afghanistan. Afghan Taliban need to show flexibility especially after the announcement of President Donald Trump that USA Forces are leaving Afghanistan.”He said that all Afghani factions should sit and agree that they can give peaceful Afghanistan to their coming generations. He says, “If Talibans are sincere for peace in Afghanistan then they should agree to sit with Afghan Government and pave way for a solution acceptable to the people of Afghanistan who have been suffering endlessly and uselessly.”
“It is strange that Taliban can sit with Americans and Chinese but why cannot they sit with their own fellow Muslim countrymen. It shows that Taliban are not sincere in Afghan peace process and don’t want a peaceful Afghanistan,” he said in a statement on Thursday.In a series of messages on Twitter, he writes, “I appeal to Taliban to appreciate the efforts of Pakistan towards peace in Afghanistan. Afghan Taliban need to show flexibility especially after the announcement of President Donald Trump that USA Forces are leaving Afghanistan.”He said that all Afghani factions should sit and agree that they can give peaceful Afghanistan to their coming generations. He says, “If Talibans are sincere for peace in Afghanistan then they should agree to sit with Afghan Government and pave way for a solution acceptable to the people of Afghanistan who have been suffering endlessly and uselessly.”
In a series of messages on Twitter, he writes, “I appeal to Taliban to appreciate the efforts of Pakistan towards peace in Afghanistan. Afghan Taliban need to show flexibility especially after the announcement of President Donald Trump that USA Forces are leaving Afghanistan.”He said that all Afghani factions should sit and agree that they can give peaceful Afghanistan to their coming generations. He says, “If Talibans are sincere for peace in Afghanistan then they should agree to sit with Afghan Government and pave way for a solution acceptable to the people of Afghanistan who have been suffering endlessly and uselessly.”
He said that all Afghani factions should sit and agree that they can give peaceful Afghanistan to their coming generations. He says, “If Talibans are sincere for peace in Afghanistan then they should agree to sit with Afghan Government and pave way for a solution acceptable to the people of Afghanistan who have been suffering endlessly and uselessly.”
FIR lodged by Hadyara Station House Officer Hamas Hameed includes sections of terrorism and attempted murder
Current Japanese Constitution came into effect on May 3, 1947
KP would have a serious and negative impact on the rest of the country and if the provincial government did not...
Akbar S Babar said verdict relied heavily on self-serving concept of ‘complete justice’ to justify relief provided...
Convoy of more than 10 foreign ambassadors was passing through picturesque town of Malam Jabba in Swat district when...
Daniyal Chaudhary said that Zionist lobbies believe that Imran Khan and his party could represent Israel in Islamic...
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: Afghanistan: More than 30 security men killed in Taliban attack | World News - The Indian Express
The Taliban launched a series of attacks on security checkpoints in four Afghan provinces early on Thursday, killing 32 members of the security forces and pro-government militias, provincial officials said.
Both sides in Afghanistan’s 17-year war have kept up attacks this winter, with the Taliban inflicting a heavy toll on government forces, and the US military and their government allies killing Taliban field commanders with air strikes.
At the same time, tentative peace efforts have been under with US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad holding three rounds of talks with the Taliban, although the insurgents called off a fourth round this week.
The latest Taliban attacks came in the northern provinces of Kunduz, Baghlan, Takhar, and Badghis in the west.
Ahmad Fahim Qarluq, the chief of the Qala-e-Zal district in Kunduz, said a large number of Taliban attacked security checkpoints in the early hours, killing 10 soldiers and police and wounding 11. Qarluq said 25 Taliban fighters were killed.
In neighbouring Baghlan and Takhar provinces, the Taliban killed 16 members of pro-government militias in attacks on outposts, officials said. They also said the Taliban suffered heavy casualties.
To the west, in Badghis province, Jamshid Shahabi, spokesman for the governor, said six members of the security forces were killed and 10 wounded in clashes.
Zabihullah Mujahid, a Taliban spokesman, claimed responsibility for the attacks, and said in a statement that the militants had killed dozens of members of the security forces and captured a large number of weapon and ammunition.
Sanjeev Kumar, a talented actor, had a passion for food and even rented a house to satisfy his love for non-vegetarian dishes. Fellow actors Shammi Kapoor, Shatrughan Sinha, and Randhir Kapoor would often join him for late-night feasts. Sachin Pilgaonkar revealed this in a recent interview, highlighting Sanjeev's love for food and his bond with his colleagues.



Title: Iran and the Taliban, Partners Against the U.S.
Wherever there is chaos, violence, and suffering in the broader Middle East, Iran is likely present. Tehran has its malign tentacles entwined in virtually every conflict in the region—from Gaza, to Yemen, to Syria, and beyond. One such conflict is the war in Afghanistan, which the media rarely discuss in conjunction with Iran. Yet the Islamic Republic plays an important role in Afghanistan—one that is disruptive and that threatens American interests. As the Trump administration debates whether to withdraw from Afghanistan, not just the Taliban but also Iran stands to gain from an American retreat.
Iranian activities in Afghanistan gained renewed attention over the past two weeks, after Adm. Ali Shamkhani, secretary of Iran's Supreme National Security Council,confirmedfor the first time late last month that Iran held talks with the Taliban, noting that the Afghan government was aware of the discussions. Days later, Iran also confirmed that the Taliban had visited Tehran for a second round of talks on ending the conflict in Afghanistan; the Talibansaidthey discussed Afghanistan's "post-occupation situation" with the Iranians. Then on Wednesday, Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarifsaidduring a visit to India that the Taliban must have a role, but not a "dominant" one, in Afghanistan's future. Iran's top diplomat also acknowledged that his country has "unofficial intelligence" contacts with the Taliban, adding that the Islamist group occupies areas by the border between Iran and Afghanistan.
Senior Afghan government officials took great offense to Zarif's comments. "If Iran believes in talks, it should pay attention to its domestic problems," Shah Hossein Mortazavi, deputy spokesperson of the Afghan president,wrotein a Facebook post that was later deleted. "These days they [Iran's Foreign Ministry] act in the role of Taliban spokesmen."
"Certainly, such statements create division between the Islamic Republic of Iran and Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and this would have a negative impact on our relations,"addedSibghatullah Ahmadi, spokesman for the Afghan Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Afghanistan's ambassador to Italy also criticized Zarif's comments, employing not-so-subtle sarcasm.
Our Iranian friends; we may or may not bring in Taliban. But thank you for your advice. To reciprocate the neighborly goodwill, I call on you to share power with Mujaheddin Khalq and NCRI, release Karobi and Musavi and make peace with Saudi. Because we believe it is good for you.
— Waheed Omer (@Waheed_Omer)January 10, 2019

The U.S. has sought to force the Taliban to negotiate a peace settlement with the Afghan government. But the Taliban, which refers to itself as the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, has consistentlyrejectedtalks with Kabul. The group seeks to topple the American-backed Afghan government and to re-impose strict Islamic law in Afghanistan as it existed under their totalitarian rule before the U.S. ousted them in 2001. That outcome does not seem so far-fetched now that the Taliban is engaged in diplomatic talks with an array of global powers, including the United States, and has the upper hand militarily.
Iran's recent comments on the Taliban are significant; in the past, Tehran has denied links to the group. It seems that, followingreportsindicating President Donald Trump wants to withdraw American forces from Afghanistan, Iran sees a golden opportunity to have a more public partnership with the Taliban and secure its interests inside the war-torn country.
Iran and the Taliban had a relationship before 9/1/ that included arms sales, even as both sides were bitter rivals. Since 9/11, however, Tehran has helped the Taliban in numerous ways, especially in recent years. As I previouslywrote:
Since American troops entered Afghanistan in 2001, Iran has given consistentfinancial supportto the Taliban, which has onlyincreasedin recent months as [the Islamic State] has moved into Afghanistan. Iranianmilitary support, however, began before the invasion, and the lethal assistance continues today to be used against coalition forces. WikiLeaks documents from 2005-06showthat Iran also offered bounties for the murder of members of the Afghan government and NATO soldiers while [Iran’s Islamic] Revolutionary Guard Corps assisted Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, a leader of a prominent jihadist group in Afghanistan, to carryout terror attacks.
Iran is even using its own military academies to provide hundreds of Taliban fighters with advanced training, according toreports. Moreover, some high-ranking Taliban leaders evenlivein Iran.
Iran continues this support while maintaining ties with Kabul, hedging its bets to position itself well for various outcomes inside Afghanistan.
There are many reasons the Islamic Republic supports the Taliban, such as fighting the Islamic State,issues concerning water, and the fact that Afghanistan borders Iran and can pose a threat if unstable, among others. But the most important reason for Washington is that both Iran and the Taliban share an interest in forcing the Americans to leave Afghanistan. Iran is very concerned about American bases in Afghanistan and uses Afghanistan as a way to exert pressure on Washington as needed. If the U.S. wants the war in Afghanistan to end in a peaceful way, it must counter Iran's support to the Taliban—support that perpetuates the conflict.
Analysts and commentators have made severalvalid argumentsabout why an American withdrawal from Afghanistan, even a partial one, would carry serious costs. Indeed, one cannot argue that a return to a pre-9/11 Afghanistan, a very real possibility, serves the U.S. well in any way. Another reason less often discussed is that an American retreat—which is the right word to use—would be a victory for Iran.
Published under:Afghanistan,Iran,Taliban
2024 All Rights Reserved

Title: Why the Afghan Taliban Are Ready to Talk – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
The Taliban has many reasons to seek talks with Afghanistan’s neighbors.
Ithas been reportedthat U.S. President Donald J. Trump is considering withdrawing a significant number of troops from Afghanistan. Reportedly, Trump has directed the Pentagon to withdraw almost half of the more than 14,000 U.S. troops stationed in the country. While Trump’s sudden desire to withdraw has taken many by surprise, Afghanistan’s neighboring states are flocking to talk to the Afghan Taliban as the insurgent group appears to have gained more weight over the question of who controls the peace process in the country.
It remains unclear whether Trump’s withdrawing troops from Afghanistan is part of Washington’s wider policy for the country. What remains clear is this: the suggestion to withdraw troops has created a new situation that is apparently guiding policies in various capitals in Afghanistan’s neighborhood. Regardless of whether American troops leave in a month or in a year, Afghanistan’s neighbors are making plans to prepare for what comes next after the withdrawal.
It has become clear that the Taliban in Afghanistan are in no hurry when it comes to the peace process. The Taliban have long refused to directly talk to the Afghan government as they consider it illegitimate and a puppet of the United States. Moreover, the policy of the Afghan Taliban concerning disregarding the government in Kabul is actually a plan to delegitimize the powers that control Kabul at the moment. This position has further been toughened by the group’s bloody terror campaign, which continues unabated. While peace talks with the Taliban are underway, the group has accelerated attacks across Afghanistan. In the last week alone, a series of Taliban attacks in western and northern Afghanistan have killed more than 21 security officials. The group’s policy of continuing attacks is an indication that unless the peace process is conducted on their terms, the group has minimal interest in a serious process.
One of the core interests of the group is to gain legitimacy by engaging all international players that are invested in the country’s future. While the group doesn’t engage with the government in Kabul, they are happy to talk to anyone that wants to talk to the group. This shows two things on the part of the Taliban. First, when it holds talks with countries such as China, Russia, Iran, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and the United States, it automatically delegitimizes the government in Kabul and fosters the Taliban’s position as the only actor with the agency to restore stability in Afghanistan.
Second, by holding talks with any state at will or refusing to talk to some states, the Taliban shows that it is not a rogue actor. Rather, by engaging with various government dignitaries at the state level, the group’s leadership tries to elevate its position to the matching official level. The Taliban’s refusal to talk to the Afghan government is partially motivated by the group’s policy of considering itself a bigger player in Afghanistan than the government. It would be unwise to argue that the Taliban consider the Afghan government completely illegitimate.
The Afghan Taliban are aware that any efforts to restore peace in Afghanistan are not likely to succeed unless they support the process. Moreover, what is trickier in this entire situation is the question of why the Taliban would want to completely give-up their militancy campaign when it’s the only thing that keeps the group organized. It’s unclear too what the group may want to achieve by becoming part of an official power structure, which would surely demand that the Taliban lay down their weapons. Perhaps, the policy on the part of the Taliban is either to pacify the government in Kabul to an extent that the end to the war may solely be on the group’s terms, which may also include the group keeping its military apparatus intact.
In any case, the group remains concerned with strengthening its legitimacy as a credible player in Afghanistan while weakening the government and its allies’ position further in the country. While the United States may be looking for a face-saving to exit from Afghanistan, the Afghan Taliban’s leadership and its followers are here to stay.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: While U.S Wants Afghan Peace Via Taliban Iran Says Militants Must be Kept in Check | Al Bawaba
US peace envoy Zalmay Khalilzad was on Thursday in Afghanistan on a trip that will also take him to India, China, Russia and Pakistan in a fresh bid to negotiate an end to the war between Kabul and the Taliban movement.
Efforts for a negotiated settlement of the 18-year war in Afghanistan have gathered pace in recent weeks, even as reports that US President Donald Trump plans to withdraw thousands of US troops have triggered uncertainty in Kabul.
Khalilzad has held three rounds of talks with the Taliban, but on Tuesday, the militants canceled a fourth round.
The Afghan Taliban said they had called off the peace talks with US officials in Qatar this week due to an "agenda disagreement", especially over the involvement of Afghan officials as well as a possible ceasefire and prisoner exchange.

A Taliban source told Reuters that US officials had insisted that the Taliban should meet Afghan officials in Qatar and said "both sides were in disagreement over declaring a ceasefire in 2019."
Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said Wednesday that the Taliban must have a role in Afghanistan’s future, but added that the group should not have a dominant role.
Zarif said that Iran has had intelligence contacts with the Taliban because it needed to secure border areas controlled by the Taliban on the Afghan side.
"I think it would be impossible to have a future Afghanistan without any role for the Taliban," Zarif, who is in New Delhi for talks with Indian leaders, told NDTV in an interview.
"But we also believe that the Taliban should not have a dominant role in Afghanistan."
Zarif said it was up to Afghans to decide what role the Taliban should have but Afghanistan's neighbors would not want them to be in overall control.
"Nobody in the region believes that a Taliban dominated Afghanistan is in the security interests of the region. I believe that is almost a consensus."
This article has been adapted from its original source.
ViaSyndiGate.info
Copyright � Saudi Research and Publishing Co. All rights reserved.
Subscribe to our newsletter for exclusive updates and enhanced content
Subscribe


Title: 
                                    China has economic aims as it quietly builds bonds with Afghanistan -
                        Nikkei Asia
                        
As US plans to scale down military presence, Beijing seeks to fill the void
ISLAMABAD -- China is making quiet approaches to Afghanistan, with the aim of expanding its influence in geopolitically important South Asian region at a time when the U.S. is planning to drastically cut back its military forces in the country.
Afghanistan's national security adviser Hamdullah Mohib met with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Beijing on Jan. 10 to discuss how China could assist the "long term stability" of the war-ravaged country.
Discover the all newNikkei Asia app
Nikkei Asian Review, now known as Nikkei Asia, will be the voice of the Asian Century.

Title: Islamic State commander killed in Afghanistan, US forces say | FMT


Title: Afghanistan: Rights on the Precipice | Human Rights Watch
Civilians Increasingly Under Threat
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
(New York) – Civilians increasingly bore the brunt ofAfghanistan’swidening armed conflict in 2018, Human Rights Watch said today in itsWorld Report 2019. More than 10,000 civilians were killed or injured during the year, a third of them children.
Insurgents carried out deadly attacks in urban areas, assassinated officials and other civilians, and targeted voters. United States and Afghan government forces caused civilian casualties during intensified airstrikes and night raids. Insecurity led to massive displacement and a drop in school attendance for the first time since 2002 – 60 percent of Afghan girls were not in school.
“Longstanding governance failures, a contemptible disregard for civilians by insurgents, and a short-sighted security strategy by the US and other donor countries, has had catastrophic results in Afghanistan,” saidPatricia Gossman, associate Asia director at Human Rights Watch. “Momentum for peace talks in 2019 may depend on whether the participants make protecting civilians and human rights a priority.”
In the 674-pageWorld Report 2019, its 29thedition, Human Rights Watch reviewed human rights practices in more than 100 countries. In hisintroductory essay, Executive DirectorKenneth Rothsays that the populists spreading hatred and intolerance in many countries are spawning a resistance. New alliances of rights-respecting governments, often prompted and joined by civic groups and the public, are raising the cost of autocratic excess. Their successes illustrate the possibility of defending human rights – indeed, the responsibility to do so – even in darker times.
The Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP), the Afghan branch of the Islamic State (also known as ISIS), sharply escalated its attacks in urban areas through 2018, including multiple bombings that targeted Afghanistan’s minority Shia population. The Taliban carried out indiscriminate attacks that killed and injured hundreds of civilians.
Air operations by US forces and the Afghan Air Force killed and injured over 600 civilians, 60 percent of them women and children. Neither military carried out adequate investigations into airstrikes that were possible war crimes. The leading causes of casualties among children were improvised explosive devices (IEDs) used by insurgents and explosive remnants of war left by all sides.
Widespread violence marked preparations for the October parliamentary elections, with insurgents carrying out numerous attacks on candidates and facilities used for voter registration, including schools. Targeted attacks on voters, roadways, and poll facilities on election days killed or injured over 400 civilians. Fraud and vote-buying cast doubt on prospects for credible presidential elections in 2019.
At least 14 journalists were killed in 2018, 11 of them in ISKP suicide attacks aimed at first-responders. The Taliban made death threats against journalists. Afghan authorities and security forces assaulted members of the media. Unidentified gunmen assassinated two journalists, in Khost and Kandahar.
Afghanistan ratified the United Nations Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture. However, it failed to hold police and National Directorate of Security (NDS) personnel accountable for systematic torture, extrajudicial executions, and enforced disappearances. US and Australian forces faced domestic inquiries into alleged crimes in Afghanistan, including summary executions and abuses against civilians.
Women and girls who were victims of domestic violence rarely found justice in the courts, as prosecutors and police pressured them to accept mediation, rather than prosecution of their assailants.
“Trying to bring stability to Afghanistan while turning a blind eye to corruption and systematic abuses has been a signal failure by the Afghan government, donors, and international forces,” Gossman said. “Afghanistan is on the precipice of even greater tragedy unless all stakeholders commit to respecting human rights and reducing harm to civilians.”

Discrimination and Other Abuses Against Papuans in Indonesia
Abusive Forced Evictions in Pakistan
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
Human Rights Watch defends the rights of people in close to 100 countries worldwide, spotlighting abuses and bringing perpetrators to justice
Get updates on human rights issues from around the globe. Join our movement today.
Every weekday, get the world’s top human rights news, explored and explained by Andrew Stroehlein.
Human Rights Watchis a 501(C)(3) nonprofit registered in the US under EIN: 13-2875808

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: MSN


Title: GOP-Led Senate Slams Trump's Syria, Afghanistan Withdrawal Plans - Business Insider
Top Republicans in the Senate are rebuking President Donald Trump's foreign policy — again.
Legislation drafted by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell that criticized the president's plans to withdraw US troops from Afghanistan and Syria was overwhelmingly advanced by senators on Thursday in a 68-to-23 vote.
The vast majority of Republicans voted in favor of the measure, which warns of the consequences of the US pulling out amid ongoing threats from the Islamic State group, or ISIS, in both countries.
"The precipitous withdrawal of United States forces from either country could put at risk hard-won gains and United States national security," the legislation reads.
Read more:Inspired by Jamal Khashoggi's killing, lawmakers renew fight to defy Trump and end US support for Saudi Arabia in Yemen
The amendment is set to be added to a larger Middle East policy bill that is expected to pass in the GOP-led Senate but could face opposition the Democratic-controlled House in relation to a provision on Israel,according to The Washington Post.
Republicans have been criticizing Trump on Syria and Afghanistan since December when he abruptly announced plans to withdraw troops from the two countries, saying ISIS had been defeated in the process.
ISIS has been greatly diminished and no longer controls a large swath of territory across Iraq and Syria that provided the basis for its self-declared caliphate, but the US intelligence community and the Pentagon have repeatedly said it continues to pose a threat.
Correspondingly,Trump has sparred with his intelligence chiefsover the course of the week because ofan intelligence-community report on global threatsthat undermined the president's foreign-policy rhetoric and claims — including his assertions about ISIS.
The newWorldwide Threat Assessmentsaid that ISIS still has thousands of fighters in Iraq and Syria, and is continuing to plan attacks.
An ISIS-claimed attack in Syria earlier this monthresulted in the deaths of four US citizens, including two US service members. This was a devastating blow to Trump's claims in late December that ISIS was defeated, an assertion that Senate Republicans again slapped down with Thursday's vote.
The US has roughly 2,000 troops in Syria and approximately 14,000 in Afghanistan. Trump in December signaled he wanted to withdraw all US troops from Syria and roughly half of those stationed in Afghanistan.
Read more:Trump's own party slams his Syria 'retreat' after ISIS-claimed attack kills US troops
Meanwhile, in a separate move that defies Trump's foreign-policy agenda, a bipartisan group of lawmakers on Wednesdayrenewed a push for a resolutionthat would end US support for the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen. Key Republicans have in recent months supported such legislation in relation to outrage over the killing of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, and this seems to have carried into 2019.
Jump to

Title: Apparent breakthrough in Afghan peace talks | VT Foreign Policy

Asif Haroon Raja for VT, Islamabad
By the time Barak Obama completed his second term in office, the tenacious battle between the ISAF-ANSF and the Taliban had completed 15thyear of the struggle, and had reached the stage of a stalemate which suited the Taliban. Soon after Donald J. Trump took over power in January 2017, General John W. “Mick” Nicholson Jr. recommend to him to dispatch a few thousand more troops to Afghanistan simply to maintain “a stalemate.”
That is, exactly what had happened in 2009, when General Stanley McChrystal had warned President Barack Obama that “mission failure” was likely unless he sent reinforcements! Obama did not ignore McChrystal’s recommendation; he tripled U.S. troop strength to a hundred thousand personnel. Strength of NATO was raised to 50,000.
However, the troop surge instead of making a difference in the battlefield, multiplied ISAF war casualties in Helmand and Nuristan battles to such an extent that Gen McChrystal was forced to make a change in military posture from forward to rearward.
Forward posts were vacated and the troops were shifted to the eight military bases and the entire rural belt of southern and eastern Afghanistan was abandoned. ISAF discarded boots on ground strategy and confined their role to providing air and intelligence support to the ANSF and to carryout selected search and destroy missions by the Special Forces.
Bunkering of the foreign troops and lack of capacity of the ANSF rived in several indiscipline problems enabled the Taliban to consolidate their positions in these areas which had all along been their bastions of power due to demographic preponderance of Pashtuns that had been sidelined. They soon gained the initiative and an upper edge over the ISAF and ANSF after they successfully carried out attacks in all parts of the country.
Another setback suffered by the US and its allies was the ouster of CIA-RAW-NDS backed TTP in Swat, Shangla, Malakand, Buner, Bajaur and South Waziristan (SW) as a result of Operations Rah-e-Rast and Rah-e-Nijat launched by Pak Army in 2009. Had the ISAF in line with the declared policy of ‘anvil and hammer’ provided the anvil along the border in SW, none of the TTP fighters and leaders could have escaped to Afghanistan. Pak military managed to clear 17 of the 18 administrative units under the control of the TTP in the northwest and thus gained an upper hand.
When Obama found that the occupying force is not capable of defeating the Taliban, he wisely announced the withdrawal of ISAF spread over 3 ½ years starting Jul 2011 and completing by end December 2014. This decision had annoyed the new ISAF Commander Gen Petraeus and the Pentagon. Petraeus announced an offensive in Kandahar in 2011, but subjected it to the clearance of North Waziristan (NW), the last bastion of the TTP and the alleged safe haven of the Haqqani network (HN).
Accordingly the US mounted excessive pressure on Islamabad to do the needful, but Gen Ashfaq Kayani astutely waited for the right moment to tackle the most difficult region and in his view, 2014 was the right year when the troop withdrawal of ISAF would be at its fag end. NW was cleared by the Army under Gen Raheel Sharif in 2015 starting June 2014, but after a brief pause, grumbling of US-Afghan nexus restarted.
Under heavy pressure from the Pentagon, government in Kabul and India, Obama reluctantly agreed to sign a bilateral agreement with the new unity government of Ashraf Ghani and Dr. Abdullah that had taken over in September 2014 and left behind a small force of 8400 troops called ‘Resolute Support Group’ (RSG) meant to provide technical, training, intelligence and air support to the ANSF as well as selected specialized operations.
The reasons put forward by Gen Nicholson for demanding additional troops were similar to his predecessors. He said that the current U.S. force levels are insufficient to keep the Taliban from regaining lost ground, particularly in the south, which has long been the Taliban’s heartland.
He blamed the Kabul government for most of the woes. In his view, Ashraf Ghani and Dr. Abdullah alliance was unnatural and hence dysfunctional owing to corruption, ineptness and in-house power struggle, preventing it from attending to the peoples issues.
He blamed the courts for failing to provide justice thereby enabling the Taliban to hold their Sharia based Qazi courts in rural areas and settle disputes speedily. He viewed the corrupt police poorly involved in crimes, drugs and cruelties. He had lot many complaints against the 195,000 strong Afghan National Army involved in green-over-blue attacks, selling weapons to Taliban and becoming their informers, and lacking in fighting spirit.
Besides his lamentation against internal power centres, he repeated the complaints of his predecessors of continued presence of safe havens of the Afghan Taliban and HN in Pakistan and the latter providing support to them. He held Pakistan responsible for the instability in Afghanistan saying that the safe havens help the insurgents to retreat whenever cornered, regroup and relaunch attacks.
He bluntly stated that unless this support base is dismantled, and Pakistan stops considering the Taliban as its strategic assets, the Taliban cannot be defeated. He also highlighted the provision of material support to the Taliban by Iran and Russia which had further worsened the security situation.
Talking about earlier troop surge in 2009 as to why it didn’t succeed, he argued that Obama benefited the Taliban and handicapped the ISAF after he announced the drawdown plan just two years later. The commencement of withdrawal in July 2011 bolstered the spirits of the Taliban and demoralized the ANSF and the people of Afghanistan.The withdrawing troops had no heart left to indulge in fighting and wanted to return home in one piece.
He admitted the heavy toll of casualties suffered by the Afghan Army losing 6785 soldiers between January 1 and November 12, 2016 and injuries to 11,777. He praised the ANA supported by airpower for preventing the Taliban from overrunning the provincial capitals of Lashkar Gah and Kunduz, and their inability to contest the rural areas. He however, didn’t tell the whole truth.
Devoid of air protection, and fearing heavy casualties on account of strafing and bombings by the jets, the Taliban after seizing the provincial capitals had abandoned them. More so,control of Taliban over rural areas adjacent to Pakistan imply control over strategic highways connecting Torkham and Chaman crossing points with the Afghan provincial capitals, the only two routes for providing supplies to foreign troops.
Like the contention of Gen McChrystal, Nicholson also assessed thatrolling back the Taliban would probably require a deployment of at least a hundred thousand troops,but without an attached timeline. He hastened to add that even then rolling back the Taliban would not be possible as long as Pakistan continued to provide them a lifeline.Scapegoating Pakistan has been the traditional excuse of all the US military commanders to hide their failures.
Abundant resources together with plentiful air assets, sophisticated technology and 360,000 well trained and equipped ANSF supported by 18000 RSG troops should have been more than enough for Gen Nicholson to at least contain the ragtag Taliban. Instead he sought 20-30,000 additional troops, and trainers to train Afghan air forceonly to maintain the stalemate and to retain control over provincial capitals, that too conditional to dismantlement of safe havens in Pakistanabout which till to-date no proof has been furnished. He wanted more Afghan pilots to train on A-29 Super Tucano light-attack aircraft that can provide close-air support to troops in combat. He also desired full control of field commanders over use of jet missions and drones.
To make his appeal convincing, he sounded a warning that failure to beef up the RSG and to consider departing would amount to squandering away all that Washington had sought to achieve in the region since the 9/11 attacks and would pave the way for the Taliban to takeover power and for the re-entry of Al-Qaeda and Daesh.
And when all his wishes were granted by Trump after he announced his new Afghan policy on August 22, 2017, and the US adopted a threatening posture against Pakistan to restrain it from its alleged support to the Taliban, Nicholson could do nothing to contain the offensive of the Taliban and continued to lose space. Attacks on major cities including Kabul and other provincial capitals like Jalalabad and Ghazni intensified.
The Taliban now exercise full control over 54% territory where they have shadow governors and 20% areas are being contested. ANSF and civil casualties in 2017-18 have touched alarming figures. No ground battle has been won by the Afghan Army and hardly any suicide attack or raid could be pre-empted. Between 2016 and 2018, it has suffered 40,000 fatalities.
Continued deteriorating situation in Afghanistan and Pakistan refusing to do more forced Trump administration to seek peace talks which it had arrogantly rejected earlier on. Encouraged by the 3-day ceasefire during the Eidul Fitr in June 2018, the US relented to the demand of Taliban to hold direct talks with them at Doha and the first session was held in July 2018. Zalmay Khalilzad was dispatched as the special US envoy to expedite peace process and arrive at a political settlement as early as possible. He kept trying to convince the Taliban leadership to include the Afghan government in future talks but couldn’t make any headway since the Taliban consider it an illegitimate puppet regime imposed by USA.
The next round of inconclusive talks were again held at Doha in November 2018 in which the Taliban insisted on release of their prisoners, removing their leaders from blacklist and letting them move freely, and lastly giving a firm timeframe of exit of foreign troops. Zalmay insisted on immediate and unconditional 6-month ceasefire to be able to hold presidential election in April 2019, retention of 2-3 military bases and the constitution framed by USA and the Afghan government, and to include Kabul regime in peace process. He added another demand of release of Prof Kevin King because of which the Taliban called off the talks.
The third two-day session was held at UAE starting December 17, duly facilitated by Pakistan which was also attended by reps from HN, KSA and Pakistan. Taliban wanted Pakistan, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) and UAE to act as guarantors for the peace accord. Inclusion of Afghan government remained a sticking point due to which no breakthrough could be achieved. The agenda for future talks was however reduced to two points only – the US to give exact schedule of complete withdrawal of occupying forces, and the Taliban to give an assurance that Afghan soil will not be allowed for terrorism against any other country.
Sensing that UAE, KSA and Pakistan were pressurizing the Taliban to agree to talk with the Kabul government, the Taliban cancelled the next session at Islamabad where Zalmay stayed on for four days, but ultimately on the persuasion of Pakistan, the Taliban agreed to hold talks at Doha on 21 January which were stretched to six days and ultimately a breakthrough was achieved on 26 January. The Taliban team was headed by Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar who had recently been released by Pakistan.
The US has in principle agreed to issue a timetable of withdrawal of troops which will be completed in next 18 months. It must have agreed to quit with bag and baggage without leaving any stay-behind group. It has agreed to remove Taliban leaders from blacklist, lift ban on their movement and to release prisoners. The Taliban agreed to release US prisoners, provide safe exit to withdrawing troops and held an assurance that they will neither support terrorism or will harbor any terrorists group in Afghanistan. They added that in the last 18 years, the Taliban have never been found involved in any terror attack including 9/11.
It was also mutually agreed that the future government in Kabul will disconnect ties with the TTP and Baluch insurgents and not work against Pakistan’s interests. They have also assured that once the agreement is finalized and signed duly countersigned by Pakistan, KSA and UAE as guarantors, they will hold talks with Ashraf Ghani’s team and work out modalities for the future interim government which will remain functional for three years.
There are still many a slip between the cup and the lip because of the negative role of the spoilers that have all along scuttled peace process owing to their vested interests. The Afghan National Alliance (ANA) government having remained in power at a stretch from end 2001 would like to extract maximum from the power sharing formula with the Taliban. India would also like to maintain its influence in the country where it has invested over $ 2 billion. Likewise, it is the desire of Washington to install a friendly government in Kabul which may not be possible if Taliban call all the shots. Similar are the priorities of Iran that has remained aligned with ANA. Subject to approval of the Doha draft agreement by Kabul and Washington, another meeting will be held between the US team and Taliban team headed by Mullah Baradar at Doha in February to sign formal agreement.
Hard Realities
For all practical purposes, the US has lost the war in Afghanistan. It can neither contain, roll them back nor defeat the Taliban, nor can it work out a peace deal with the Taliban at its own, or can exit safely and honorably. Its strategy to tire the Taliban and force them to seek peace from position of weakness didn’t work. The US finds itself badly stuck in its self-created mess which it cannot clear.
The reality has finally dawned upon the US leadership that there is no military solution to the Afghan imbroglio. The ANSF and RSG are incapable of confronting the Taliban offensive, which is well poised to gain control over some important capital cities like Ghazni and Helmand.
The Taliban cannot achieve victory as long as they suffer from the handicap of air defence. But the stalemate is in their favor since time and casualty factors favor them.
While the occupying forces have no cause to justify their prolonged occupation of Afghanistan, the Taliban have a superior cause to wage a struggle to free their country.
As long as the ANSF supported by airpower of the RSG can hold on to major cities where two-thirds of the population reside, the Kabul regime can survive.The day the Taliban procure surface to air missiles, the Taliban will acquire the military capability to hold on to captured cities,thereby overturning the balance in their favor. It had happened when the Mujahideen were given stinger missiles in 1987 which forced the Soviets to quit.
The Taliban are no more diplomatically isolated since today they enjoy the support of Russia, China, Pakistan, KSA, UAE and Qatar. Central Asian Republics are also not as antagonist as they were in the past.
Conversely, the US is getting isolated and unpopular. Its troops are getting weary and so is the US which is spending $ 45 billion a year in fighting this futile war and has already sunk $ 1.5 trillion without achieving any of its objectives. Over 2000 troops have lost their lives and another 20,000 have sustained injuries. Suicide rate has intensified while post stress disorder cases have reached alarming proportions.
The US position has become weaker after its decision to pullout from Syria and its indication to pullout 7000 troops from Afghanistan this year. This trend has boosted the Taliban and their bargaining power and that is why they withstood pressure and stuck to their demands firmly and ultimately succeeded in making the sole super power to bend and withdraw.
Pakistan which has all along been distrusted, castigated, whipped and punished is now being cajoled and won over by the overweening USA. Besides helping in finalizing the peace agreement with the Taliban, Pakistan is the only country which provides land-based exit routes to the withdrawing US troops and their heavy baggage, and also providing a bridge to the US for its future contacts with Kabul and Central Asia.
Worried about Russia and China filling the power vacuum after its departure, Washington want a friendly government in Kabul, and to maintain a reasonable influence in the region.
Given the change in fortunes, victory of Taliban and their return to power is a foregone conclusion. It is to be seen how well Pakistan plays its cards in playing a role in avoiding the recurrence of violence of the 1990s, in cultivating best of relations with the Taliban to ensure secure western border, and mainstreaming them in regional and global geo-economic politics.
Pakistan must insist upon the US, the West as well as the international community to help establish a broad-based transition government in Kabul, which can conduct fair and free elections and to reconstruct and rehabilitate war torn Afghanistan.
In case the peace deal is taken to its logical end, Pakistan will be a big gainer and India as well as its proxies based in Afghanistan big losers.
The writer is a retired Brig, war veteran, defence and security analyst, columnist, author of five books, Vice Chairman Thinkers Forum Pakistan, Director Measac Research Centre. Takes part in TV talk shows.asifharoonraja@gmail.com


Brig. General Asif Haroon Raja is on the board of advisors for Opinion Maker.  He holds an MSc war studies degree.  A second-generation officer, he fought the epic battle of Hilli in northwest East Bengal during 1971 war,
He served as Directing Staff Command & Staff College, Defence Attaché Egypt, and Sudan and Dean of Corps of Military Attaches in Cairo. He commanded the heaviest brigade in Kashmir. He is tri-lingual and speaks English, Pashto, and Punjabi fluently.
Currently, he is a defense analyst and columnist and writes articles on security, defense, and political matters for numerous international/national publications.  He is chairman at the Thinkers Forum Pakistan, Director Measac Research Centre, & Member CWC PESS & Veterans Think Tank
He is also the author of many books;  ‘Battle of Hilli’, ‘1948, 1965 & 1971 Kashmir Battles and Freedom Struggle’, ‘Muhammad bin Qasim to Gen Musharraf’, and Roots of 1971 Tragedy’.  His latest book is ‘Tangled knot of Kashmir : Indo-Pakistan antagonism: vol. 1 and vol. 2″

With war-monger Bolton doing the advising at the presidential level, a continuation of the Bush-family-type aggression and subversive activity is predictable.  War-monger types do not gain insight from their failures.
The last thing the US wants is to face being slaughtered on the way out like the British were 150 years ago.
Failing intentional disruption this sounds hopeful.
Sadly, “the US” – meaning the American citizenry –  has no say in the decision of the war-monger types that keep weapons factories – thus their owners – in continued profits.  Some type of slaughtering of US forces will continue.  Members, of the fifth column of the religious society that owns weapons factories, will continue the ages-old plan of slaughtering non-members of their socio-religious society.
They look like hippies, peace and love.
Comments are closed.

Title: Afghanistan as Vietnam Redux: Bomb, Declare Peace, and Leave?
Photo: WAKIL KOHSAR/AFP/Getty Images
Commentary
               byAnthony H. Cordesman
Published January 15, 2019
By Anthony H. Cordesman
Senator George Aiken is famously misquoted as recommending that the United States “declare victory and get out” as a way of ending the war in Vietnam. In practice, the United States did something very different. It bombed North Vietnam into agreeing to a peace settlement, claimed that a rushed "Vietnamization" campaign gave South Vietnam a government and military forces capable of securing the country, and then pulled United States forces out of South Vietnam.
Any summary of what happened next has to be grossly oversimplified, but even a brief summary still sounds important warnings about the current United States policies in Afghanistan. The U.S left South Vietnam with a hollow, unstable and corrupt “democratic” government in charge. It left a country with serious economic problems the moment United States military spending and high aid levels were cut, and it left a country torn apart by deep divisions between its ruling class and its Buddhist clergy.
It also left a half-formed Army of the Republic of Vietnam Forces (ARVN) behind. These forces were trained and equipped to fight as if they had United States resources and backing. Some units were truly effective as long as they had the proper resources and leadership, but the ARVN as a whole was corrupt, had growing desertion problems, and was dependent on massive outside aid to support its United States-style force structure. Aid cuts after the United States left further crippled the ARVN, North Vietnam skillfully built up a mix of new conventional and covert threats, and the United States did not begin to react effectively when North Vietnam triggered a massive new invasion.
Afghanistan is not Vietnam, and history never really repeats itself – particularly when the countries involved have such radically different political, economic, cultural, and security conditions.But,there are enough parallels between Afghanistan and South Vietnam to sound a warning. If anything, Afghanistan has deeper political divisions both within its central government and on a national basis. The World Bank rates it as having some of the worst governance ratings in the world, and Transparency International rates it as the fourth most corrupt country in the world in spite of a long series of ongoing anti-corruption efforts.
The parallels between Vietnamese and Afghan vulnerabilities to United States withdrawal become all too clear once one strips away the “follies” of reporting by official government spokespersons and public affairs officers. There are many highly competent Afghans and Afghan officials and officers, but the basic structure of Afghan politics and governance can defeat their efforts at every level of government activity and implementation of the rule of law.
Afghanistan’s current government is a fractured, ineffective mess. It is deeply divided between a mutually hostile President and CEO, and many of their key rivals. It lags years behind in holding a new election, and its latest government reorganization may strengthen its security efforts but has brought even more rivals into the government.
The Afghan legislature has little real control over how money is actually spent, and has its own corruption problems in both its elections and in every action it takes when in session. There are deep ethnic, sectarian, tribal and regional divisions in both Afghan politics and governance from the local to the national level that undermine its unity and effectiveness, and sometimes lead to violence that affect its politics. Much of the country is controlled by mixes of power brokers that include warlords and narcotraffickers, and severely limit the central government’s role and influence outside “Kabulstan.”
The United States has talked about pushing more actively for reform, effective policies, and integrity by making United States aid and military support conditional but the few such efforts are the small exception rather than the rule. Worse, recent United States-led peace talks, announcements of a 50% cut in United States forces, and further delays in a new election have sharply hurt President Ghani’s – and any other candidate’s – chances of creating a unified and effective new government.
There have been many claims about civil progress in the Afghan economy and in Afghan human development, but far too many claims have been false or exaggerated by political spin. Afghanistan has one of the poorest economies in the world. TheCIA World Factbookindicates that the Agency estimates the poverty level at 23% but cannot estimate just how low its GDP per capita is or how high its real and disguised unemployment is. It summarizes Afghanistan’s current economic situation as follows,
Afghanistan is extremely poor, landlocked, and highly dependent on foreign aid, agriculture, and trade with neighboring countries. Much of the population continues to suffer from shortages of housing, clean water, electricity, medical care, and jobs. Criminality, insecurity, and the Afghan Government's inability to extend rule of law to all parts of the country pose challenges to future economic growth. It will probably take the remainder of the decade and continuing donor aid and attention to significantly raise Afghanistan's living standards from its current level, among the lowest in the world. While the international community remains committed to Afghanistan's development, pledging over $24 billion at three donors' conferences since 2002, Kabul will need to overcome a number of challenges. Expanding poppy cultivation and a growing opium trade generate roughly $4 billion in illicit economic activity and looms as one of Kabul's most serious policy concerns. Other long-term challenges include: budget sustainability, job creation, corruption, government capacity, and rebuilding war torn infrastructure.
The real Afghan economy now relies on three main forces: outside aid – most of it military which generally benefits a relatively small elite and the Afghan military, civil servants, and contractors; narcotics sales which provide limited benefit to the grower but high incomes to power brokers, narcotraffickers, and the Taliban; and a subsistence economy that is primarily agricultural but has a growing element of urban poor. This subsistence often means poverty to the point of malnutrition at the rural level. Afghan cities are packed with displaced persons from an increasingly insecure countryside.
Afghanistan does get substantial economic aid from other countries, but partly because of United States involvement. The Lead Inspector General-Overseas Contingency Operations (LIG-OCO) estimated in October 2018 that United States economic and civil aid would be $1.6 billion in FY2019, the Special Inspector General for Afghan Reconstruction (SIGAR) put the total cost of civil and economic aid at $45.5 billion. Much of the impact of aid, however, comes from the military support and aid the United States spends in country
No one has accurate quantitative data on Afghanistan’s current economic plight. However, the infographics in an actual on-the-scene World Bank analysis by Ismail Rahimi,Afghanistan poverty status update: progress at risk (Vol. 2): May 2, 2017,seem all too valid in warning that the real poverty rate climbed from 36% in 2011-12 to 39% in 2013-2014 as United States and allied forces withdrew and civil aid was cut. Male unemployment tripled. Rural poverty rose by 14% to a 44% level, and 76% of the jobs created in the rural service sector during 2007-2008 were lost. The majority of rural areas still had no education, while the number of poor Afghans that were being educated dropped by 6%. One in two young Afghans were left unemployed. (And, all of these estimates must be considered in the context that Rahimi’s analysis did not fully measure the impact of the loss of aid workers and efforts and the rising impact of dependence on narcotics exports)
As for the Army of the Republic of Vietnam Forces (ARVN), it remains dependent on United States and other outside allied aid in dollar terms, in airpower, and on "train and assist support" from some 21,522 United States and allied uniformed personnel in the NATO Resolute Support Mission and other roles as of June 2018.
The United States publicly reported the it deployed a nominal total of 14,000 uniformed personnel before the President indicated in December 2018 that they might be cut by 50% in December. This 14,000 total, however, did include the large numbers of supporting troops outside Afghanistan necessary to support the 14,000 actually in country, and does not seem to have included significant numbers who were deployed on temporary duty assignments. It also made no mention of the fact that the United States alone depended on 26,922 additional contractors inside Afghanistan country, 10,128 of which were American citizens and 10,527 more were not Afghan nationals and most of which would leave the country if United States forces withdrew.
The LIG-OCO estimated in October 2018 that the United States alone was providing $5.2 billion in FY2019 in direct aid to the Afghan security forces, and a total of $46.3 billion in military aid for counterterrorism operations and the mission to train, advise, and assist the Afghan security forces – although the United States has never reported the actual war costs for Afghanistan alone. This $46.3 billion also supports operations across the Middle East in Kuwait, Qatar, Bahrain, and the United Arab Emirates that are not specific to Afghanistan. Some of this money also goes to stability and counter-terrorism operations in the Horn of Africa and the Philippines, and detainee operations at Naval Station Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
It is hard to put the problems in Afghan forces in any form of quantitative perspective. The United States Departments of State and Defense have steadily cut back on the content of their public official reporting on every aspect of Afghanistan and the War, including on every part of the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF).
Defense still does, however, issue a semi-annual report and both the LIG-OCO and SIGAR provide more detailed coverage of the ANSF in spite of growing over-classification and non-reporting by the Departments of State and Defense. SIGAR stated in its October 30, 2018 report to Congress that,
Other unclassified data show the ANDSF made minimal or no progress in pressuring the Taliban over the quarter. RS-provided data showed that the ANDSF failed to gain greater control or influence over districts, population, and territory this quarter. While the districts, territory, and population under insurgent control or influence also decreased slightly, the districts, territory, and population “contested”—meaning under neither Afghan government nor insurgent control or influence—increased. Notably, Afghan government control or influence of its districts reached the lowest level (55.5%) since SIGAR began tracking district control in November 2015. The Afghan government controls or influences districts in which about 65% of the population lives, unchanged since October 2017
It is clear from Untied Nations, SIGAR, LIG-OCO, media sources and other reporting that the Taliban, Haqqani Network, and ISIS are making serious gains in challenging government forces in the countryside and in some provincial capitals. It is also clear that the ANSF have not made serious gains anywhere. Further, the Taliban has sharply increased its control of the narcotics industry that now virtually dominates the hard currency earning sector in the Afghan civil economy.
As a result, official reporting on the course of the fighting has tended to make more and more efforts to “spin” the fighting into success. More honest command briefings, however, have made it clear that the overall balance seems to be tilting in favor of insurgents and extremists in spite of limited increases in the size and role of the United States train and assist mission after President Trump took office. So, has virtually all media reporting – such as the excellent reporting in theLong War Journal. More and more districts are coming under Taliban control or see insurgents actively challenging the government.
The ANSF does not have conscription as Vietnam did. It does, however, recruit largely because young Afghan men have no other sources of jobs and income. SIGAR reports also make it clear that the ANSF has serious retention problems that mirror image the “desertion” problems that official United States Army histories of the war show crippled the ARVN before the collapse of Vietnam. SIGAR stated in its Quarterly Report for October 30, 2018 that,
The ANDSF also struggled to maintain its personnel strength this quarter. The ANDSF’s July 2018 strength of 312,328 personnel—comprising 194,017 in the Afghan National Army (ANA) and 118,311 in the Afghan National Police (ANP)—was the lowest strength reported for comparable periods since 2012. ANDSF strength decreased by 1,914 personnel since last quarter and by 8,827 personnel since the same period last year. This puts the ANDSF at roughly… 11%, below their target strength of 352,000.According to DOD, ANDSF attrition is due to a number of factors, including personnel being killed in action, going absent without leave, or declining to reenlist…When SIGAR asked RS to comment on the issue, they responded, “From the period of May 1 to the most current data as of October 1, 2018, the average number of casualties the ANDSF suffered is the greatest it has ever been during like periods.
..this puts the ANDSF at only 88.7% of its authorized strength, down from 91.2% during the same period in 2017… This quarter, USFOR-A classified all ANA attrition information; last quarter it provided limited attrition information.
Afghan force levels are driven in part by pay problems, ethnic and sectarian divisions, and steadily higher casualty rates. These data are classified by the Afghan government, but press estimates put the total at more than 25,000 Afghan soldiers and police killed toward the end of December 2018, Casualty estimates showed a sharp rise during 2018.
Afghanistan has no direct equivalent to "Rolling Thunder" and the bombing campaigns in Vietnam. However, in practice, Afghan forces have only held together because of the U.S. and NATO train and assist mission, the high levels of military aid funds, critical combat support of the best Afghan units from key cadres of United States counterinsurgency forces, and a more than 58% increase in year-long combat air support from the United States between 2017 and 2018.
The Public Affairs Office of the United States Air Force Central Command (AFCENT) reports that the United States flew 4,603 manned strike sorties in all of 2017, and 7,291 in the first 11 months of 2018. The total number of munitions dropped by manned and unmanned aircraft rose by more the 56% from 4,361 in all of 2107 to 6,823 in the first 11 months of 2018.
The small Afghan Air Force is making progress, and beginning to acquire fully mission capable light attack aircraft. It has no plans, however, to acquire anything like the United States air capabilities it now depends upon. Moreover, like Afghan ground forces, it is at least half a decade away from being a force capable of replacing United States and NATO allied forces. There is no predictable time in the next decade where it will not be dependent on major transfers of both military and civil aid. It is currently locked into a war of attrition with the Taliban and other enemies where they still have near sanctuary in Pakistan and now seem to be getting significant Russian and Iranian aid.
It would be unfair to accuse any element of the US. government as having had the wrong strategy for Afghanistan. The real accusation should be that it has had so many partially conflicting strategies that it never properly resourced or implemented overtime, or actively reversed, that it has had no real strategy at all. The United States has been remarkably inconsistent and ineffective in both its military civil programs in Afghanistan since its first great successes in aiding Afghan forces to drive out the Taliban in 2000-2001.
United States attempts at strategy have varied by year. Many new strategies have been false starts that have never been seriously implemented, and they often had wild swings in funding from year-to-year. The United States delayed funding and supporting the build-up of effective Afghan forces for half a decade because of the priority it gave to Iraq and intelligence assessments that sharply understated the resurgence of the Taliban. It then reversed this position and "surged" more United States troop into Afghanistan, only to suddenly begin a major effort to rush into a full-scale military withdrawal beginning in 2014.
This withdrawal effort has since been partly reversed, but only in partial and poorly defined ways. The United States has not provided the military personnel to implement the kind of train and assist program the ANSF need, and has pulled back from efforts to create effective civil and civil military programs. As noted earlier, it has talked about making aid “conditional,” but largely just talked. Ironically, as Congressional Budget Office (CBO) studies have shown, it also has had to keep a massive support effort going for fewer and fewer troops, getting only marginal savings for providing too few personnel.
For all the faults of the various Afghan forces involved in limiting or ending Afghan progress, the lack of consistent, effective United States efforts is probably as much to blame. The United States will also be primarily to blame if it repeats any aspect of the United States “strategy” in leaving Vietnam. It should have already learned that cutting United States support for half-ready Afghan security forces does not magically make them effective, any more than “Vietnamization” could suddenly and magically transform the ARVN.
Suddenly announcing a potential 50% cut in the 14,000 United States troops in Afghanistan without any prior consultation of the Afghan government and our allies is a mistake. Doing this while holding something approaching unilateral peace talks with a Talban that refuses to even talk to the Afghan government has done more than provide a twisted mirror image of United States actions in Vietnam. It not only has discredited the United States as an ally, but it has given the Taliban a great incentive to keep fighting while rejecting any serious compromise with the Afghan government.
Worse, the Afghan “peace talks” to date seem to be based on the fantasy that the Taliban will shift its positions so radically that it both recognizes the legitimacy of the current Afghan government and accept a limited and non-violent role in that government –andthat the end result will be better than the peace between North and South Vietnam. In practice, the Taliban has already turned United States peace efforts into an extension of war by other means. It is clearly seeking either military victory or a decisive edge at the negotiating table. It may well conclude that any peace that pushes the United States out will leave Afghanistan so fragile and divided that it can violate the peace settlement just as North Vietnam did. One has only to look at Cambodia, Nepal, the Balkans, and Nicaragua for examples of rebels and factions who used “peace” talks and negotiations to win.
This mix of United States force cut announcements and peace efforts in December and January has also undermined the already faltering United States effort to get Pakistan to stop tolerating and support the Taliban. It has shown the limits to Ghani’s influence to his people, and undermined any Afghan effort to create enough unity to keep United States support. Inevitably, it will affect ANSF morale and desertion rates at every level, act as more reason for Russia and Iran to play the Taliban off against the United States, and further undermine United States leverage and any real United States efforts to make aid conditional.
Is there a case for a thorough review of United States options in Afghanistan? Yes, the preceding analysis shows there clearly is! However, a long and agonizing United States failure in Afghanistan is clearly worse than a short one. The options are either to provide the time, resources, and conditionality that have a credible chance of ending the war with some form of victory, or to conclude that the United States take the risk of actually leaving and develop a strategy based on an honest assessment of the risks and costs to U.S. security and the Afghan people. Blundering into repeating Vietnam redux, and relying on the "fog of peace" to replace the "fog of war" is not the answer.
Anthony H. Cordesman holds the Arleigh A. Burke Chair in Strategy at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C. He has served as a consultant on Afghanistan to the United States Department of Defense and the United States Department of State.
Center for Strategic and International Studies1616 Rhode Island Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20036
Tel: 202.887.0200Fax: 202.775.3199
SeeMedia Pagefor more interview, contact, and citation details.
©2024 Center for Strategic & International Studies. All Rights Reserved.

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: Four Lessons to Consider  in Peace Talks with Taliban - The Daily Outlook Afghanistan, print and online English Newspaper
Peace is a long  awaited wish for any Afghan. The Afghan citizens know very well the value of  peace, because they have been the victim of war for more than 4 decades. They  have always supported peace building efforts in the country and have welcomed  the imitated by any side. In trying to end fighting in Afghanistan and secure a  sustainable representative government for Afghans, Afghan government, China,  Russia, Afghan neighbors and especially the United States have continually  tried encouraging Taliban members to work with the Afghan government. However,  initiatives and have talks failed.Building on these past  experiences, there are four lessons for those who have little choice but to  negotiate with stubborn insurgents: set moral guidelines on end goals for the  negotiating team, recognize that it’s challenging for both sides to negotiate  and fight simultaneously; and apply force to back diplomacy and vice versa and  clearly define that Afghanistan conflict has only political solution.Fragmentation among opponents  is frustrating when commitments are not met, but can lead to breakthroughs. For  most it’s puzzling why a few ideologues prefer endless pursuit of power, at any  cost, over peace and stability.According to the  political scholars, attempts at US-Taliban talks require persistence, moral  guidelines on end goals.As mentioned before,  here are details of four lessons learnt during sitting across the negotiating  table from the Taliban that may be helpful to those who may seek to negotiate  with them or others who need to talk to an insurgent group in some present or  future conflict:Set clear conditions and moral guidelines  and stick to them.These  need not be preconditions. Indeed, before talks with the Taliban began. It  shall be clearly clarified to them that Afghan people would support  reconciliation with only those insurgents who met four important end  conditions: Break with al Qaeda and ISIS, end violence, and live inside an  Afghan Constitution that guarantees the rights of all individuals, especially  women. So far most of the talks have reached no agreements on some critical  parts of this sequence showing the moral ambiguity of talking to insurgents.It is hard to fight  and negotiate at the same time.Taliban has mounted  their pressure during the talks and have done so in an unconstrained manner,  using brutal tactics such as attacks on schools and hospitals, and the  assassination of influential figures. They have applied these tactics to keep  the Afghan government, the US and NATIO busy or distracted while they continued  to carry out military operations, waiting for ultimate withdrawal of the US and  causing more casualties the ANSF.Force must be backed  by diplomacy, and diplomacy must be backed by force.Talking with the Taliban shall be part of the larger “diplomatic  campaign” through complementing the military surge. Such tactics will harness  all of the instruments of non-military power to support Afghanistan, such as  development assistance, private-sector investment and support for civil  society. As part of this effort, it calls for organizing meetings at which  nations and international organizations pledge future political and material  support for Afghanistan. These conferences shall also be designed to send the  Taliban clear messages that the international community was committed to  supporting Afghanistan beyond reaching a peace deal or not.Afghanistan conflict  has only political solutionThe Afghanistan  government, as well as the United States, shall clearly clarify to the Taliban  that there can only be a political solution and not a military solution to  Afghan War. Taliban shall not misunderstand the efforts of the Afghan  government and the US as a weakness that they are ready to surrender to any demands  of Taliban including the revival of Emirate or resuming their harsh policies  against the ethnic groups and women.In a nutshell, a  peaceful end to the Afghan war on terror now requires that the international  community meets the commitments it has made to Afghanistan. President Trump  also faces the challenging question of how long the US troops shall stay in  Afghanistan spending extra billion dollars to continue the longest US war.  However, no peace deal must sacrifice the constitution and democratic  achievements of Afghanistan.
Copyright ©2010www.outlookafghanistan.net - All Rights Reserved.

Title: 
	      Army willfully ignores Islamic motivations behind Afghan killings of US troops | 
	  The Daily Caller
	
The U.S. Army command recently announced that only 25% of the lethal “green on blue” Afghan military insider attacks against U.S. and N.A.T.O. troops were attributable to the Taliban.
Mere “personal grievances,” we aretold, account for the other 75% of attacks committed by our Afghan allies.
How could it be that so many Muslims in the Afghan National Army (A.N.A.) have become murderously enraged over personal disagreements and accidental insults? What has caused this upsurge in murders that has killedat least 40U.S. troops since January 2012?
The answer is buried deep in a May 12, 2011unclassified reportby a U.S. Army “Red Team.” This report, titled “A Crisis of Trust and Cultural Incompatibility,” contains a litany of bureaucratic puffery that tries to explain away these acts of murder committed against the U.S. and N.A.T.O. troops by their A.N.A. “allies.”
During a recent press conference, General John R. Allen, Commander, U.S. Forces Afghanistan, claimed that Ramadan fasting, combined with operational tempo during the summer heat, were causing the current spate of killings of his own troops by Muslim A.N.A. soldiers.
That doesn’t seem right. The U.S. Army has been in Afghanistan for 11 years, and the number of attacks has climbed enormously in the last year.
But a careful reading of the report reveals numerous paragraphs showing the real gulf between U.S. soldiers and Afghans.
The report is based upon extensive interviews with U.S. and N.A.T.O. troops. It shows they are disgusted with, and highly suspicious of, the Islamically sanctioned practices and behaviors of their Afghan military allies, the Afghan National Security Forces (A.N.S.F.) and A.N.A., as well as Afghan civilians:
US soldiers … reported pervasive illicit drug use, massive thievery, personal instability, dishonesty, no integrity, incompetence, unsafe weapons handling, corrupt officers, no real NCO [non-commissioned officer] corps, covert alliances/informal treaties with insurgents, high AWOL rates, bad morale, laziness, repulsive hygiene, and the torture of dogs (“given the standing of dogs in Islam.”). Perceptions of civilians were also negative stemming from their insurgent sympathies and cruelty towards women and children.
The report alsonoted,
… numerous accounts of Canadian troops in Kandahar complaining about the rampant sexual abuse of children they have witnessed ANSF personnel commit, including the cultural practice ofbacha bazi[dancing boys], as well as the raping and sodomizing of little boys …
U.S. soldiers were thoroughlyrevoltedby such “abuse and neglect” of Afghan children, whileexcoriatingthe “poor treatment and virtual slavery of women in Afghan society,” whichthey found “repugnant.”
The most important point was placed on page 50, where item No. 40 jumps out from 58 comparatively trivialrecommendationsabout how to counter the Afghan attacks on U.S. soldiers:
Better educate US soldiers in the central tenets of Islam as interpreted and practiced in Afghanistan. Ensure that this instruction is not a sanitized, politically correct training package, but rather includes an objective and comprehensive assessment of the totalitarian nature of the extreme theology practiced among Afghans.
In a practical and alarming elaboration (onp. 38), the report laments that a majority of A.N.S.F. members believe self-immolating homicide bombers attain “Salvation,” while U.S. soldiers killed in action do not. Concordantly, most A.N.S.F. members accept that killed “infidel” U.S. soldiers are condemned to Hell. Moreover, the report further warns about “A.N.S.F. religious officers” who espouse that such homicide bombers are Islamic martyrs who gain “Paradise,” and/or promote the notion that these homicide bombers’ actions are justified. Such Afghan Muslim views, in turn, reiterate classical, authoritative Islamic doctrine onjihadandjihad martyrdomfrom Islam’s most important canonical sources, i.e., the Koran (see verses9:111;98:6), and the traditions of the Muslim prophet Muhammad (“hadith,” such as Sahih Bukhari,Volume 4, Book 52, Numbers 53 and 54).A February 17, 2011 Washington Poststorydemonstrated how the U.S. military’s utter failure of imagination engendered the delusive — and dangerous — belief that U.S. largesse would solve a millennium of Afghan Muslim hatred of Jews and other infidels, and the related historic use of mosques to foment and physically supply murderous jihadism. In Kabul’s largest and most famous “blue” mosque, a distinguished cleric, Enayatullah Balegh, pledged support for “any plan that can defeat” foreign military forces in Afghanistan, excoriating what he called “the political power of these children of Jews.” Balegh, who is also a professor of Islamic law at Kabul University, stated in an interview, “I don’t think even a single Afghan is happy with the presence of the foreign military forces here.”
As a Pentagon expert on Islamic law, former Major Stephen Coughlin,observedin 2007:
If the Enemy in the War on Terror (WOT) states that he fights jihad in furtherance of Islamic causes that includes the imposition of Sharia law and the re-establishment of the Caliphate; And Islamic law on jihad exists and is available in English; Then Professionals with WOT responsibilities have an affirmative, personal, professional duty to know the enemy that includes ALL the knowable facts associated with the law of jihad.
Coughlin, a well-trained lawyer, furtherarguedthat such understanding by our military leaders is obligatory if they are to uphold their essential commission.
The Red Team report’sacknowledgement, no matter how buried, of Islam’s role in shaping the attitudes and actions of our allies and enemies can help us understand why Afghans are increasingly murdering their U.S. trainers and allies — and free us from the perilous politically correct puffery pitched by General Allen and his pusillanimous peers.
Andrew G. Bostom, MD, is the author of “The Legacy of Jihad” (2005) and the forthcoming “Sharia Versus Freedom.”

TRENDING
©2024 The Daily Caller, Inc.
The Daily Caller | 1775 Eye Street NW | Suite 1150-290 | Washington, DC 20006

PREMIUM ARTICLE: Subscribe To Keep Reading
Continue Reading
Already have an account?Login

By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use


By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use

By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use


By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use

By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use


By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use

By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use

By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use
$3.00
A Month (Billed Annually)
Cancel Anytime
$8.25
A Month (Billed Annually)
Cancel Anytime
$9.95
A Month
Cancel Anytime
$12.50
A Month (Billed Annually)
Cancel Anytime
Honor Our Heroes Program: Verify your Active Military, Veteran, or First Responder Status for Additional Discounts
Readers,
Instead of sucking up to the political and corporate powers that dominate America, The Daily Caller is fighting for you — our readers. We humbly ask you to consider joining us in this fight.
Now that millions of readers are rejecting the increasingly biased and even corrupt corporate media and
joining us daily, there are powerful forces lined up to stop us: the old guard of the news media hopes
to marginalize us; the big corporate ad agencies want to deprive us of revenue and put us out of business;
senators threaten to have our reporters arrested for asking simple questions; the big tech platforms want
to limit our ability to communicate with you; and the political party establishments feel threatened by our
independence.
We don't complain -- we can't stand complainers -- but we do call it how we see it. We have a fight on our
hands, and it's intense. We need your help to smash through the big tech, big media and big government blockade.
We're the insurgent outsiders for a reason: our deep-dive investigations hold the powerful to account.
Our original videos undermine their narratives on a daily basis. Even our insistence on having fun infuriates
them -- because we won’t bend the knee to political correctness.
One reason we stand apart is because we are not afraid to say we love America. We love her with every fiber of
our being, and we think she's worth saving from today’s craziness.
Help us save her.
A second reason we stand out is the sheer number of honest responsible reporters we have helped train. We have
trained so many solid reporters that they now hold prominent positions at publications across the political
spectrum. Hear a rare reasonable voice at a place like CNN? There’s a good chance they were trained at Daily
Caller. Same goes for the numerous Daily Caller alumni dominating the news coverage at outlets such as Fox News,
Newsmax, Daily Wire and many others.
Simply put, America needs solid reporters fighting to tell the truth or we will never have honest elections or a
fair system. We are working tirelessly to make that happen and we are making a difference.
Since 2010, The Daily Caller has grown immensely. We're in the halls of Congress. We're in the Oval Office.
And we're in up to 20 million homes every single month. That's 20 million Americans like you who are impossible
to ignore.
We can overcome the forces lined up against all of us. This is an important mission but we can’t do it unless you —
the everyday Americans forgotten by the establishment — have our back.
Please consider becoming a Daily Caller Patriot today, and help us keep doing work that holds politicians,
corporations and other leaders accountable. Help us thumb our noses at political correctness. Help us train a new
generation of news reporters who will actually tell the truth. And help us remind Americans everywhere that there
are millions of us who remain clear-eyed about our country's greatness.
In return for membership, Daily Caller Patriots will be able to read The Daily Caller without any of the ads that
we have long used to support our mission. We know the ads drive you crazy. They drive us crazy too. But we need
revenue to keep the fight going. If you join us, we will cut out the ads for you and put every Lincoln-headed cent
we earn into amplifying our voice, training even more solid reporters, and giving you the ad-free experience and
lightning fast website you deserve.
Patriots will also be eligible for Patriots Only content, newsletters, chats and live events with our reporters
and editors. It's simple: welcome us into your lives, and we'll welcome you into ours.
We can save America together.
Become a Daily Caller Patriot today.
Neil Patel
Internal promotions, affiliate content, recommended content and spam will be embedded in their paid
content and players may still be included on the site.
CONTENT
CONTINUE READING FOR$120$1
ALSO, ENJOY THE MANY BENEFITS OF PATRIOTS MEMBERSHIP

Title: As a nation, we do not know where we are heading? – Pajhwok Afghan News
Username or Email
Password
Remember me
Lost your password?

Don't you have an account with Pajhwok Afghan News?
Click here to subscribe.
Political scientists believe that even momentary failures in crisis situation can spell the end for ruling elites. The ferocious blunder for Governments is to promise moon and offer stars in lay-away plan to public. The Afghan National Unity Government committed the political fault of raising the public expectations who promised to bring sweeping reforms, ward-off notorious corrupt officials, cleanse faulty systems, and enforce laws on all and every citizen in Afghanistan during campaign and early days of its term.
Since early 2014, President Ghani was assumed to be the re-born version of King Amanullah Khan, or President Dawod Khan who called himself reformists and target oriented. Both late Afghan rulers left the unforgettable legacy; though they could not have delivered. King Amanullah was opposed and failed by so-called religious mob plotted by international conspirators where NUG is jinxing itself by digging his grave by his own hand doing faulty things. President Ghani ascended to power in the utmost grave security situation where US and NATO allies had already left Afghanistan all alone in solo fight. It is unjust to blame President Ghani for not being able defeating terrorism, but it is absolute just to say that NUG is failed to go from bad to worse situation since 2014.
No one can expect that why Terrorism has not been dismantled and defeated, but this is a worrying surprise that insurgent groups have grown to be more powerful, vigorous, and domineering in year 2019. Along with that; the emergence of more than 19 different terrorist factions in the country, the collapse of provinces from time to time and the findings of SIGAR’s report that NUG exercise less territorial control since 2001 is saddening news. Why this has happened? No one knows yet, but the obvious reason could be the NUG’s unpredictable political moves and leaps from stone to stone.
What Have gone Wrong?From the onset, the formation of unity government has been a wrong political test with no precedence and legislative foundation. President Ghani signed-off the back-room deal with Dr. Abdullah Abdullah to carve-up political power evenly and exercise parallel ruling authorities. Not only the new power sharing phenomenal has been against the constitutional orders; the deal assumed to be the death-warrant against the nascent momentum of democratic efforts including election and respect to citizens’ votes. From the very beginning, neither Abdullah Abdullah unleashed the uncontested power to President Ghani, nor President Ghani heeded Abdullah Abdullah as his 50% power-sharing stake-holder. This way, within the government; two power blocks have been formed and political wrangling among the parties took a full show.
Afghanistan is suffering the aftermath of the past 37 years’ on-going war. The number of current active notorious politicians and heartless war-mongers of today’s Afghanistan are the outcome of the past three decades’ skirmishes. The strongmen and their cronies have put a hard grip over the financial resources, political aura, and military institutions. Not only part of the current government failures reverts to the disruptive interventions of such war-lords, but also assumed as the key bottlenecks toward reformed government system and ordered societies.Luckily, President Ghani has been so hard against the illicit power holders but the struggles have not been divorced from politics. Many acts of reformation have been engineered to deter political dissidents for the personal political interests of NUG rather than national interests. Also, the intention behind the efforts to cripple corrupt politicians was not pluralist, inclusive and nationalistic; instead it has seen selective, politicized and unframed. Since then, no gun lord, corrupt official, and unlawful strongman has been arrested, convicted and incarcerated. Not only their power has not been limited and ended; the war-lords now even breathe in freer and unshackled ways under the eyes of Unity Government.
In addition to that, the volume of empty promises by NUG dampened the hopes toward better future. For instance, last year President Ghani announced to build 6000 new schools. In a country like Afghanistan where the heartland of the big cities such as Kabul are not safe and controlled; how the 6000 new schools in remote areas such as Ghazni, Noristan, Urozgan, Farah, Helmand and other provinces can be constructed?After the announcement of President Ghani; Public heard the voice, believed it and stitched their eyes toward the fulfillment of the promise.  Nothing has happened over the promise, instead people lost trust on ruling figures who are now paranoid and skeptical.
War against insurgent groups has been unprofessionally managed. The majority of ministers and top ranked officials of security sectors are militarily naïve and professionally incapable. Except few; there are outnumbered security sectors official who had not worked single day in security departments before they stepped in to the position. After years of working, many of them still seems unserious and sleepy with no real-world knowledge of security management in crisis situation. Regardless of other baseless political appointments in security security sectors; the new MOI and MOD ministers are the happy news but we still need to wait and see the tangible results.
For instance, the successor of a skilled and ripe policy deputy minister with over 7 years of consecutive working experience on the same position; a female deputy policy minister for ministry of interior has been appointed by President Ghani. The new MD for policy affair is 25 years old with business background and zero former experience in security sector. How on the face of earth this decision has come from? How such delegation of authority could be justified by NUG that the new DM will devise a plan to police the Afghan cities and safe-guard the nation against the outnumbered crimes in the Afghan streets?
Ladies are the indivisible part of the Afghan society lose life daily, 60% land is suffering daily conflict, security sectors go through dwindling budget, regional countries are playing proxies, big power countries breaches their promise toward future, and internally, the nation is heaped under the heavy foot of illegal armed strongmen; how such appointment can ensure security success? May be, NUG do not know the roles of play or appoint such young ladies to garner youngsters support for future election. Whatever the reason should be; such decision can affect the Afghans’ daily life and deject hopes for a brighter tomorrowThe new female DM for policy affairs is not the only flimsy case; a large number of unfit male ministers, deputy ministers, politically dilettante governors, and a bunch of unskilled close aides to the president who know nothing but carry hats in hand with yes-man mentalities are the poor decision taken in the past 4 years. The president by himself seems a true son of this nation with patriotic style; but unluckily enveloped by few con political artists with skeptical characters.
Since 2014, the country is not going toward betterment; instead it leaps from worse to worst situation. The Asia Foundation for Afghanistan recent report justify the claim of dark future ahead. In a country of abundant challenges, the national rulers must move forward with wise and calculated steps. Afghanistan is surrounded by treacherous neighbors, deteriorated security situation, economic recession, outnumbered terrorist groups, fractured political spheres and bleak future of all types. The Afghan government has the slightest margin of errors. Advertently or inadvertently; even a small political decision can skid-off NUG toward precipitous slides. Regardless of the inevitable nature of politics in Afghanistan; a huge number of political decisions in the past 4 years could had been taken differently. May be, the political elites will have their own play in the fuzzy game, or they naively commit wrong decisions that face the nation with blight destiny and dark future.
Shortly, NUG could have done things differently, or they may rethink on the trend and style they govern, unless the history will record this period as moments of misery and misfortune for the Afghan nation.
I still see President Ghani as a second thinker of the world and revered his worldly knowledge, but I am sure many things have gone wrong under his supervision. I hope peace, war strategy, regional diplomacy and internal polity should have designed and implemented differently as the current trends have been proven idealistic and unworkable at all.
Looking are the darkening scenario in the country, sadly “as a nation, we do not know where we are heading?
View expressed in this article are of the author’s own and do not necessarily reflect Pajhwok’s editorial policy.
The views expressed in this article do not necessarily reflect Pajhwok's editorial policy.

Title: The US political crisis reaches fever pitch - World Socialist Web Site
The political battle within the US ruling elite is reaching a new peak of intensity, with an ongoing media campaign portraying Trump as a Russian agent, Democratic Party demands to cancel the State of the Union address, and Trump’s response Thursday afternoon, blocking a planned foreign trip by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi that would have included a visit to US troops in Afghanistan.
While the anti-Russian campaign against Trump escalates, spearheaded by theNew York Timesand theWashington Post, with nearly daily “exposés” depicting Trump as a puppet of Vladimir Putin, Trump answered with a fascistic rant against the supposed “radical left” takeover of the Democratic Party, delivered to a military audience at the Pentagon. “The party has been hijacked by the open borders fringe,” he claimed.
The mutual vilification takes place under conditions of a partial shutdown of the federal government that will reach the one-month mark next Tuesday, with 800,000 federal workers going without paychecks. More than 300,000 are furloughed and nearly 500,000 are forced to work without pay.
The United States has clearly entered into a major political crisis, which cannot be reduced to the personalities involved, or the seeming accident of Trump’s presidency. Like any significant political phenomenon, this crisis has deeper socioeconomic and material roots, which have produced an unprecedented degree of dysfunction in the US political system and disorientation in the ruling elite.
There are two main historical factors at work, one of them developing over many decades, the other of more recent origin.
The first is the absolute failure of the conceptions and policies adopted by the US ruling elite in response to the crisis and breakdown of the Soviet Union and the Soviet bloc as a whole. Beginning with the administration of George H. W. Bush, Washington was emboldened to use military force on a far wider scale than at any time since World War II.
Bush hailed the prospect for a “new world order” defined by American military supremacy, freed of the pressure from the Soviet Union that had set definite limits to US military intervention throughout the Cold War. He hoped to put an end to the “Vietnam syndrome,” the deep popular opposition to overseas military adventures after the debacle in Southeast Asia. Imperialist strategists called for seizing the “unipolar moment.” Some even proclaimed the “end of history,” and envisioned a long succession of American administrations dominating the world, like the emperors of ancient Rome.
But after 30 years of virtually unbroken military conflict—Desert Storm, Somalia, the Balkans, Panama, Haiti, the invasion of Afghanistan in 2001, the invasion of Iraq in 2003, the bombing of Libya in 2011, the US-backed civil wars in Syria and Yemen—what is there to show for it? American bombs and missiles have wrought devastation over a vast expanse from North Africa to Central Asia, killing millions, displacing tens of millions, destroying entire societies.
But despite the expenditure of trillions of dollars, to say nothing of the human cost both at home and abroad, American imperialism is in a weaker position in the Middle East than before the first Persian Gulf war, while its main regional target, Iran, and its global antagonists in China and Russia have grown stronger. The relative economic decline of the US, particularly in relation to China, is a major factor in the United States' loss of global hegemony.
A recent analysis in theNational Interestwas headlined, “There is no Military Victory in Afghanistan.” It came to the gloomy conclusion that “the Afghan national security forces (ANSF) and the kleptocratic Islamic republic they protect will not survive without generous Western aid,” adding that these forces, “314,000 strong on paper, are unable to defeat a Taliban force less than a fifth their size” and are also “fiscally unsustainable,” absorbing nearly the entire national income of Afghanistan.
A scathing analysis published last week by the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), a leading imperialist think tank, blasts the failure of both Republican and Democratic administrations to develop a viable strategy in the Persian Gulf region, particularly in relation to Iraq and Iran, while calling the current debate over Trump’s call for a pullout of American forces from Syria a meaningless sideshow. The real problem, argues Anthony Cordesman of CSIS, is that Iraq is effectively bankrupt, unable to serve US interests in the world oil market or maintain domestic stability.
Nor have Trump’s efforts to shift the focus of US intervention from the Middle East to the Asia-Pacific region borne fruit.Foreign Policymagazine critiques the ongoing US naval engagements with China over the South China Sea as largely for show, provoking Beijing’s anger while failing to reassure potential allies like the Philippines. “For all its tough talk on China and increased activity in the South China Sea, the Trump administration’s credibility in Southeast Asia is eroding,” the report concludes.
While the decline in the global position of American imperialism has been a protracted process, the second major factor underlying the political crisis in Washington is of more recent vintage: the growth of the class struggle and pro-socialist sentiment in the United States.
The most alarming aspect of the 2016 presidential campaign, as far as the US ruling elite was concerned, was not the election of Trump. He is one of them, and, media hysteria to the contrary, his class loyalty is not in doubt. What struck fear into both factions of the ruling elite, Democratic and Republican, was the revelation that there was mass support for socialism among a broad swathe of working people and youth, with more than 13 million votes cast for Bernie Sanders. The Vermont senator is not, of course, a genuine socialist, only a liberal who used socialist phrases to bolster his “left” credentials. The popular response, however, shocked the entire US ruling class and all its political representatives, including Sanders himself.
This has been followed, beginning in 2018, by an upsurge in the class struggle, with tens of thousands of teachers joining in statewide strikes in West Virginia, Oklahoma and Arizona, organized through social media and outside the unions, and a wave of other strikes and struggles by auto workers, public employees, utility and telecommunications workers. This is part of a broader radicalization of the working class internationally, a political awakening with revolutionary implications.
Both the failure of its long-term geopolitical strategy and the emergence of working class opposition at home have profoundly disoriented the American ruling elite. In the wake of US failures abroad, bitter recriminations have led to the hunt for scapegoats. The question of “Who lost China?” played a major role in the McCarthy witch hunts of the 1950s. The new McCarthyism of the Democratic Party poses the question “Who lost Syria?”
The eruption of significant class battles at home is even more disturbing, even terrifying, to the ruling class than setbacks abroad. Now it is a question of the most vital interests of the bourgeoisie, the defense of its wealth and property in the face of the developing challenge from below. Each side within the ruling elite plays at pro-worker demagogy, whether in the form of Trump’s vicious immigrant-baiting, combined with trade war, or the Democrats’ more traditional, but completely phony, posturing as the “friends of labor.” But both factions are utterly hostile to any genuine assertion of the independent interests of the working class.
There is a mounting sense that neither bourgeois faction can find a way out of the current crisis, and that the answer has to come from the intervention of the working class. This realization produced a rare moment of truth on NBC News Thursday evening, when “Meet the Press” host Chuck Todd, asked how the federal government shutdown could be ended, said that the only thing that could force the opposing camps to abandon their posturing would be an all-out strike by TSA passenger screeners and air traffic controllers, which would close down the entire air travel system.
The emergence of the working class is fundamental to changing the political situation, not only in the United States, but throughout the world. One year ago, in a commentary on the beginning of the year 2018, WSWS Editorial Board Chairman David North wrote: “This new year of 2018—the bicentenary of Marx’s birth—will be characterized, above all, by an immense intensification of social tensions and an escalation of class conflict around the world.” This assessment has already been vindicated in the events of the past year. Going forward, the central task facing the working class is the building of a new revolutionary leadership, committed to the struggle for a socialist perspective.
The bicentenary of Marx’s birth, socialism and the resurgence of the international class struggle[3 January 2018]

Title: DW talks to Pakistani foreign minister – DW – 01/18/2019
In an exclusive interview with DW, Pakistan's Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi said that Islamabad is cooperating with Washington to find a political solution to the protracted conflict in Afghanistan.
DW: Efforts to bring the Taliban into negotiations with the US are underway. But US President Donald Trump has criticized Pakistan a number of times for supporting Islamist extremists in the region. He also alleges that Islamabad provides safe havens to militants that launch attacks in Afghanistan. Will these differences have an impact on peace efforts?
Shah Mehmood Qureshi: Presently, there is new thinking within the Trump administration and a new convergence of interests is emerging.Prime Minister Imran Khanhas been stressing that there is no military solution to the Afghan conflict. If we want peace in Afghanistan, it must come through a negotiated political settlement. Reconciliation through an intra-Afghan dialogue is the best way forward.
Right now, the Taliban, Afghanistan, Pakistan, the US and almost every regional stakeholder are on the same page. Pakistan is trying to facilitate the dialogue. Hopefully, this will be a game-changer for the region.
Read more:Is Trump handing over Afghanistan to Pakistan?
Last year, an international terror watchdog put Pakistan on its "gray list" for Islamabad's inability to stop terror funding. Why has Pakistan failed to convince the international community that it is clamping down on terrorism funding?
Pakistan has taken concrete measures in this regard. Our team was recently in Australia to explain to [the watchdog representatives] about the steps we have taken since our government came to power [in August last year]. We are getting positive feedback. Hopefully, when the matter will be discussed in Paris at some point, Pakistan will be removed from the"gray list."

But some political observers say that Pakistan has not really acted against the Jamaat ud-Dawa (Lashkar-e-Taiba)…
Pakistan has taken serious measures to stop money laundering and terror financing. We are cognizant of our responsibilities and we will fulfill them.
PM Khan says he is in favor of pursuing dialogue with India, Pakistan's arch regional rival. But it hasn't kicked off. Why not?
We want peace and stability in the region and to achieve it, talks with India, with which we have outstanding issues, are absolutely vital. When our party [Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf, PTI) came to power, we offered New Delhi to come to the negotiating table to resolve conflicts. We feel it is the only way forward. PM Khan said that if India took one step toward peace, Pakistan would take two steps.
Unfortunately, India is in the middle of an election campaign and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is gearing up for the next general election. I don't think they are ready for talks at the moment. We have made the offer to India, and our offer is sincere. Whenever they are ready, we will engage with them.
Read more:Why Taliban won't make peace with Kabul
Pakistan's worsening economic situation is considered by many experts as a huge threat to its security. Don't you think that better economic ties with India would be beneficial for Pakistan?
Corruption and bad economic policies in the past have had a negative impact on our economy. Our government has inherited a very challenging economic situation. But PM Khan's government is working relentlessly to pull the country out of this economic mess. We have engaged with a number of institutions, including the International Monetary Fund (IMF), along with friendly countries to help our economy stabilize. We are also taking measures to attract foreign investment to Pakistan. We are also considering liberalizing the visa regime to promote tourism.
Regional trade, of course, is important. Normalizing our relations with India, Afghanistan and other regional countries is vital. Peace in the region, in my view, will promote bilateral and regional trade.
Does PM Khan's civilian government have complete control over the country's foreign policy? This has been a bone of contention between past governments and Pakistan's powerful military.
Obviously, foreign policy is conceived, drafted and implemented by the foreign office. Our office has very capable and competent people to do this job. Having said that, with the situation we are in, we need to seek input from our national security institutions. Our government has a good working relationship with our security institutions. We are in touch with them. We discuss things openly and collectively decide what is in our national interest.
Read more:Can Turkey broker peace in Afghanistan?
The interview was conducted by Shah Meer Baloch.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video


Title: Business News Today: Read Latest Business news, India Business News Live, Share Market & Economy News | The Economic Times
Get only relevant updates on WhatsApp. No Spam.
Learn from the top business gurus.
September 23
India's corporate travel sector, valued at over USD 10.6 billion, is projected to grow at a 10.1% CAGR to USD 20.8 billion by FY30. This gro...
India's electric two-wheeler market is booming, but exports remain minimal. Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari sees potential for India ...
Monthly instalment schemes by jewellers are sustaining gold demand despite high prices. Tanishq, Reliance Jewels, and Senco Gold have seen s...
Vodafone Idea has been directed to pay Rs 50,000 in compensation to a senior citizen for mental harassment due to abrupt disconnection of hi...
Quick commerce is driving growth in grocery shopping, with 31% of Indian shoppers using it for core needs and 39% for top-ups, according to ...
The expo and the conference combined represent the most sought-after event of the Oil & Gas industry that is held every year to bring the in...
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Java Programming with ChatGPT: Learn using Generative AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Basics of Generative AI : Unveiling Tomorrow's Innovations
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Generative AI for Dynamic Java Web Applications with ChatGPT
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Mastering C++ Fundamentals with Generative AI: A Hands-On
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Master in Python Language Quickly Using the ChatGPT Open AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Zero to Hero in Microsoft Excel: Complete Excel guide 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Stock Trading
Market 101: An Insight into Trendlines and Momentum
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Markets 102: Mastering Sentiment Indicators for Swing and Positional Trading
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Market 103: Mastering Trends with RMI and Techno-Funda Insights
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Market 104: Options Trading: Kickstart Your F&O Adventure
By - Saketh R, Founder- QuickAlpha, Full Time Options Trader
Astrology
Vastu Shastra Course
By - Sachenkumar Rai, Vastu Shashtri
Data Science
SQL for Data Science along with Data Analytics and Data Visualization
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Web Development
A Comprehensive ASP.NET Core MVC 6 Project Guide for 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Stock Trading
ROC Made Easy: Master Course for ROC Stock Indicator
By - Souradeep Dey, Equity and Commodity Trader, Trainer
Stock Trading
RSI Made Easy: RSI Trading Course
By - Souradeep Dey, Equity and Commodity Trader, Trainer
Stock Trading
Technical Analysis for Everyone - Technical Analysis Course
By - Abhijit Paul, Technical Research Head, Fund Manager- ICICI Securities
Office Productivity
Mastering Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and 365
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Marketing
Digital marketing - Wordpress Website Development
By - Shraddha Somani, Digital Marketing Trainer, Consultant, Strategiest and Subject Matter expert
Web Development
Mastering Full Stack Development: From Frontend to Backend Excellence
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Finance
Financial Literacy i.e Lets Crack the Billionaire Code
By - CA Rahul Gupta, CA with 10+ years of domain experience, trainer
Stock Trading
Introduction to Technical Analysis & Candlestick Theory
By - Dinesh Nagpal, Full Time Trader, Ichimoku & Trading Psychology Expert
Leadership
Business Storytelling Masterclass
By - Ameen Haque, Founder of Storywallahs
Marketing
Future of Marketing & Branding Masterclass
By - Dr. David Aaker, Professor at Haas School of Business
HR
Human Potential and the Future of Employment
By - Lynda Gratton, Co-chair of the World Economic Forum Council on Work, Wages and Job Creation, Professor of Management Practice
Strategy
ESG and Business Sustainability Strategy
By - Vipul Arora, Partner, ESG & Climate Solutions at Sattva Consulting Author I Speaker I Thought Leader
Stock Trading
Options Trading Course For Beginners
By - Chetan Panchamia, Options Trader
Finance
Financial Reporting and Analytics
By - Dr. C.P. Gupta, Professor: Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi
Stock Trading
Options Scalping Made Easy
By - Sivakumar Jayachandran, Ace Scalper
Stock Trading
Futures Trading Made Easy: Future & Options Trading Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Markets Made Easy
By - elearnmarkets, Financial Education by StockEdge
Stock Trading
Renko Chart Patterns Made Easy
By - Kaushik Akiwatkar, Derivative Trader and Investor
Stock Trading
Options Trading Made Easy: Options Trading Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Investing Made Easy: Beginner's Stock Market Investment Course
By - elearnmarkets, Financial Education by StockEdge
Stock Trading
Macroeconomics Made Easy: Online Certification Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Valuation Made Easy
By - Rounak Gouti, Investment commentary writer
Tuesday, 24 Sep, 2024
Vodafone Idea (Vi) has said it’s now up to the government to come up with a mechanism to offer financial relief to the company, after the Supreme Court’s recent rejection of the telco’s curative petition seeking a re-computation of its adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues.
India’s aspiration to be a $7-trillion economy by the end of the decade can be achieved as a “strong” Prime Minister Narendra Modi rolls out the digital and physical infrastructure that’s drawing multinationals involved in manufacturing advanced products and services, said Jamie Dimon, chairman and CEO, JPMorgan.
This is India’s moment and the country should seize it, Nvidia chief executive Jensen Huang said after a roundtable in New York between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and leading technology industry CEOs. Sundar Pichai, the CEO of Google and its parent Alphabet, said the Prime Minister has a clear vision of the opportunity that artificial intelligence will create, and is challenging top companies to do more in India.
Securing a US student visa is just the beginning for international students. Maintaining it is crucial, as violations like prolonged absence, unauthorized transfer, or fraudulent activities can lead to revocation. Immediate steps include understanding the reason, contacting university services, reapplying or appealing, and seeking legal assistance if necessary.
High net worth Indians are using corporate credit cards for personal expenses during overseas travels to avoid breaching the $250,000 annual limit on foreign remittance. The government may soon implement rules to include international credit card spends under this limit, but distinguishing personal from business expenses remains challenging.
Prodigy Finance has announced a $5,000 scholarship for students pursuing higher education abroad for the Spring 2025 intake. Applications open in September 2024 and close on September 30, 2024. Eligible candidates must be accepted into a Prodigy Finance-supported program and demonstrate academic excellence and community commitment.
Rajinikanth to Mahesh Babu: South Stars Steal The Spotlight at Anant Ambani's Wedding
Explore Goa In The Rains: 10 Must-Do Activities, Places To Visit
Sonakshi Sinha wedding photos out: Actress marries Zaheer Iqbal in civil ceremony
How Four Words from Chiranjeevi Saved Pawan Kalyan's Life
​Mushrooms Can Lower Risk Of A Cancer Diagnosis​​​
What To Eat, What To Avoid During Pregnancy? Follow This ICMR Guide
Want To Live Longer? Watch Your Salt Intake, Advises ICMR
How vegans can get enough protein? What ICMR says
Balakrishna's 5 Controversies. Latest: Actress Anjali Incident
Why These Two Rs 10 Notes Fetched Over Rs 12 Lakhs At Auction?
Magnificent Mango: 5 Beauty Secrets Of This Summer Delight
​Radhika Merchant’s Space Suit Designer For Ambani Pre-Wedding Bash, Has Worked With Jennifer Lopez & Karlie Kloss!​
​Flax Seeds Can Aid In Weight Loss, Improve Gut Heath: Here’s The Best Time To Consume Them​
​NASA Finds 126 Alien Planets! Does This Mean There’s Extraterrestrial Life?​
You Can Enjoy This 5-Day Cruise For Just Rs 5,000. Thanks To Indian Govt
Scandals that destroyed Bollywood celebs' career
​From Vedavid To Vamika, 6 Bollywood Babies With Unique Names​
Blockout 2024: From Taylor Swift To Alia Bhatt, Celebs Are Being Boycotted Online
Gainers & Losers: Vedanta, IEX among 7 stocks in limelight on Tuesday
SIPs in 5 small cap mutual funds multiplied wealth by 100x in 15 years
9 famous street food to try when in Gujarat
8 yoga poses to reduce stubborn waist fat
8 health benefits of having ghee coffee in the morning
9 excellent immunity boosting food for kids
9 chia seeds benefits for skin and hair
These 4 F&O stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest
These 4 stocks closed above VWAP on September 23
These 3 stocks showed RSI Trending up on September 23
Bullish Momentum: These 3 stocks with White Marubozu Pattern on September 23
These 4 stocks closed below VWAP on September 23
At multi-year highs: These 6 stocks witnessed 5-year swing high breakouts
Positive Breakout: ACC among 4 stocks crossed their 200 DMAs
Chia Seeds: Miracle Superfood Or Overhyped Trend
Who Has Chris Martin Dated? A Look At Coldplay Singer's Famous Girlfriends
Gainers & Losers: Vodafone Idea, Indus Towers among 6 stocks in limelight on Monday
7 immunity boosting drinks for weather change
7 high-protein dishes made with chickpeas
7 house plants best suited for bathroom
7 effective morning exercises to lose weight
Gold price up more than 23% in one year; check latest price of gold
7 common mistakes you are doing to lose weight
7 health benefits of drinking haldi doodh everyday at night
7 homemade drinks to boost energy
Tech Mahindra among 3 stocks showing RSI trending up
Cochin Shipyard among 5 stocks with White Marubozu Pattern
These 5 F&O stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest
Finolex Industries and 3 other stocks close below VWAP
Vodafone Idea and 3 other stocks closed above VWAP
Check out these iconic Bonedi Bari Durga Puja in Kolkata
Why your EPF claim may get rejected: Here are 11 reasons
What DonaldTrump promised to accomplish on day one as president
Cancer patients: Tips to go through chemotherapy
Direct Tax Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme 2024: CBDT notifies these rules, forms from October 1, 2024
Oscars 2025: 'Laapataa Ladies' picked as India's entry; how Kiran Rao reacted, top film contenders and other details
India’s first Mpox clade 1 case in Kerala: Symptoms, treatment, risk factors, travel advices and other details
Want to visit the equator? Countries to consider and your budget guide from India
Top 5 flexi-cap funds with up to 28% returns in 3 yrs
Kamala Harris isn't alone! 5 Indian politicians who love to cook and eat
Hot on Web
In Case you missed it
Top Calculators
Top Prime Articles
Top Performing MF
Top Story Listing
Top Commodities
Top Definitions
Top Slideshow
Latest News
Follow us on:

Title: Bill to terminate Pakistan's designation as major non-NATO ally introduced in Congress - The Economic Times
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Java Programming with ChatGPT: Learn using Generative AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Basics of Generative AI : Unveiling Tomorrow's Innovations
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Generative AI for Dynamic Java Web Applications with ChatGPT
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Mastering C++ Fundamentals with Generative AI: A Hands-On
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Master in Python Language Quickly Using the ChatGPT Open AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Zero to Hero in Microsoft Excel: Complete Excel guide 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Astrology
Vastu Shastra Course
By - Sachenkumar Rai, Vastu Shashtri
Data Science
SQL for Data Science along with Data Analytics and Data Visualization
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Web Development
A Comprehensive ASP.NET Core MVC 6 Project Guide for 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Mastering Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and 365
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Marketing
Digital marketing - Wordpress Website Development
By - Shraddha Somani, Digital Marketing Trainer, Consultant, Strategiest and Subject Matter expert
Web Development
Mastering Full Stack Development: From Frontend to Backend Excellence
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Finance
Financial Literacy i.e Lets Crack the Billionaire Code
By - CA Rahul Gupta, CA with 10+ years of domain experience, trainer
Leadership
Business Storytelling Masterclass
By - Ameen Haque, Founder of Storywallahs
Marketing
Future of Marketing & Branding Masterclass
By - Dr. David Aaker, Professor at Haas School of Business
HR
Human Potential and the Future of Employment
By - Lynda Gratton, Co-chair of the World Economic Forum Council on Work, Wages and Job Creation, Professor of Management Practice
Strategy
ESG and Business Sustainability Strategy
By - Vipul Arora, Partner, ESG & Climate Solutions at Sattva Consulting Author I Speaker I Thought Leader
Finance
Financial Reporting and Analytics
By - Dr. C.P. Gupta, Professor: Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi
(Catch all theBusiness News,Breaking News,Budget 2024Events andLatest NewsUpdates onThe Economic Times.)
Subscribe toThe Economic Times Primeand read theET ePaperonline.
(Catch all theBusiness News,Breaking News,Budget 2024Events andLatest NewsUpdates onThe Economic Times.)
Subscribe toThe Economic Times Primeand read theET ePaperonline.

Flyers are denied free airport lounge access. The behind the scenes that led to it.
In the new world trade order, is narrative shifting from profits to wages?
Alcobev firms undergo a hangover in Q1 FY25 despite premium push
8 things India should know about Pakistan’s new spy chief
A 98% haircut for SUUTI in Modern Syntex resolution plan raises eyebrows
Can BookMyShow’s Coldplay mess be Zomato’s big ticket opportunity?
US backs India, Japan & Germany for UNSC permanent seats
'Don’t make a mockery of our sentiments...'
A bird may sing in Kabul, but a girl may not: Meryl Streep
PM Modi caps his US trip with a meeting with Zelenskyy
Israel targets Hezbollah missiles buried in civilian buildings
MUDA scam case: K'taka HC's big jolt to CM Sidda
Iran seeks a world free of nuclear weapons: Pezeshkian
K'taka mandates Urdu proficiency for Anganwadi teachers' posts
Hugs, diplomacy, Bonhomie! Highlights from PM Modi’s US visit
Iron Dome Defends Israel from Hezbollah Rockets
Hot on Web
In Case you missed it
Top Searched Companies
Top Calculators
Top Definitions
Top Commodities
Top Slideshow
Private Companies
Top Prime Articles
Top Story Listing
Latest News
Follow us on:
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Reason for reporting:
Your Reason has been Reported to the admin.
Log In/Connect with:
Will be displayed
Will not be displayed
Will be displayed
Stories you might be interested in

Title: Bill to terminate Pakistan designation as major non-Nato ally introduced in US Congress - Times of India
9 most unique and rare birds in the world
10 foods that contain highest protein per 100 grams
8 Indian cities where non-vegetarian food is banned
How to make South-Indian style Chicken Pakora
10 lines from Shakespeare's sonnets that are profound life lessons
Most beautiful hill stations in the Western Ghats for a serene vacation
8 yoga poses that can reduce waist size effectively
7 home remedies to remove yellow stains from teeth
10 books that will help transform your life in the next 3 months
Ganesh Chaturthi 2024: 10 South Indian dishes to make for Lord Ganesha

Title: Bill to terminate Pakistan's designation as major non-NATO ally introduced in Congress
My Account
Follow us on:
Powered By
See the top gainers, losers, invest and get updated what's happening in the crypto market
Invest Now
Powered By
India's Largest Regional Retail Option Traders Summit. (BOTS) is a prestigious options trading event organized by Traders Gurukul. Held on the 2nd OR 3rd Sunday of every month, across top cities in India
Invest Now
Powered By
This functionality will provide users with ease of access navigation and enable create a new revenue line by generating leads of potential customers for brokers in a more integrated manner.
Invest Now
An influential US lawmaker has introduced a legislation in Congress to terminate the designation of Pakistan as a major non-NATO ally.
Introduced by Republican Congressman Andy Briggs, the resolution 73, introduced in the House of Representatives, seeks termination of Pakistan as a major non-NATO ally and also sets conditions for its re-designation if any.
The resolution has been sent to the House Foreign Affairs Committee for necessary action.
It states, for future redesignation, the US President need to certify to the Congress that Pakistan continues to conduct military operations that are contributing to significantly disrupting the safe haven and freedom of movement of the Haqqani Network in that country.
It also seeks certification from the Congress that Pakistan has taken steps to demonstrate its commitment to prevent the Haqqani Network from using any Pakistani territory as a safe haven and that the Government of Pakistan actively coordinates with the Government of Afghanistan to restrict the movement of militants, such as the Haqqani Network, along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.
The resolution asks the President to certify that Pakistan has shown progress in arresting and prosecuting Haqqani Network senior leaders and mid-level operatives.
Discover the latestbusiness news,Sensex, andNiftyupdates. ObtainPersonal Financeinsights, tax queries, and expert opinions onMoneycontrolor download theMoneycontrol Appto stay updated!
Copyright Â© e-Eighteen.com Ltd. All rights reserved. Reproduction of news articles, photos, videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form 
        or medium without express writtern permission of moneycontrol.com is prohibited.
You are already a Moneycontrol Pro user.

Title: 
	Bill to terminate Pakistan designation as major non-NATO ally introduced in Congress  - The Hindu

To enjoy additional benefits
CONNECT WITH US
Published- January 12, 2019 08:13 am IST - Washington:
Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan. File
An influential U.S. lawmaker has introduced a legislation in Congress to terminate the designation of Pakistan as a major non-NATO ally.
Introduced by Republican Congressman Andy Briggs, the resolution 73, introduced in the House of Representatives, seeks termination of Pakistan as a major non-NATO ally and also sets conditions for its re-designation if any.
The resolution has been sent to the House Foreign Affairs Committee for necessary action.
It states, for future redesignation, the U.S. President need to certify to the Congress that Pakistan continues to conduct military operations that are contributing to significantly disrupting the safe haven and freedom of movement of the Haqqani Network in that country.
It also seeks certification from the Congress that Pakistan has taken steps to demonstrate its commitment to prevent the Haqqani Network from using any Pakistani territory as a safe haven and that the Government of Pakistan actively coordinates with the Government of Afghanistan to restrict the movement of militants, such as the Haqqani Network, along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.
The resolution asks the President to certify that Pakistan has shown progress in arresting and prosecuting Haqqani Network senior leaders and mid-level operatives.
Published- January 12, 2019 08:13 am IST
Pakistan/USA/international relations
Copyright© 2024, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
BACK TO TOP
Terms & conditions|Institutional Subscriber
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by ourcommunity guidelinesfor posting your comments.
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.

Title: Defence News - Read Latest Updates on Indian Defence



Title: Bill To Remove Pakistan As Major Non-NATO Ally Introduced In US Congress
An influential US lawmaker has introduced a legislation in Congress to terminate the designation of Pakistan as a major non-NATO ally.
Introduced by Republican Congressman Andy Briggs, the resolution 73, introduced in the House of Representatives, seeks termination of Pakistan as a major non-NATO ally and also sets conditions for its re-designation if any.
The resolution has been sent to the House Foreign Affairs Committee for necessary action.
It states, for future redesignation, the US President needs to certify to the Congress that Pakistan continues to conduct military operations that are contributing to significantly disrupting the safe haven and freedom of movement of the Haqqani Network in the country.
It also seeks certification from the Congress that Pakistan has taken steps to demonstrate its commitment to prevent the Haqqani Network from using any Pakistani territory as a safe haven and that the Government of Pakistan actively coordinates with the Government of Afghanistan to restrict the movement of militants, such as the Haqqani Network, along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.

The resolution asks the President to certify that Pakistan has shown progress in arresting and prosecuting Haqqani Network senior leaders and mid-level operatives.
TrackLatest NewsLive on NDTV.com and getnewsupdates fromIndiaand around theworld