Title: Afghan politician cautions Tehran against aiding Taliban | Middle East Institute








Ahmad Majidyar
A prominent Afghan politician has cautioned that it is not in the interest of Iran to have close relations with the Taliban,Afghan media reported. “As an Afghan, I explicitly state that cultivating close relations – I hope it is a mistake – with an enemy, which has no difference with ISIS in its essence and substance, is harmful not only to the Iranian people but also to the people Afghanistan,” Amrullah Saleh, the head of the Afghan Green Trend and former intelligence chief, said at the Tehran Security Conference. He further reminded the audience at the conference that the Taliban harbors sectarian hatred toward the Shiites and massacred ethnic Afghan Hazaras when the terrorist group was in power prior to the 2001 US intervention. Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif also spoke at the conference.
Comment: Since the fall of the Taliban 16 years ago, Iran has played both sides of the conflict in Afghanistan. On the one hand, Tehran has cultivated close ties with Kabul and contributed to Afghanistan’s rebuilding process. Iran has also emerged as Afghanistan’s largest trading partner as relations between Kabul and Islamabad has been deteriorating. At the same time, however, the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) has been providing training, money, arms and sanctuary to Taliban militants to pressure the U.S. military forces to leave the country. The Iranian government has also used its ties with the Taliban to seek political concessions from the Kabul government.
Lately, the Afghan government has become more vocal about Iran’s relationship with and support for the Taliban. In September, for example, the Chief of General Staff for the Afghanistan National Defense and Security Forcessaidthat the Kabul government has evidence that Iran is providing weapons and other military assets to the Taliban in western Afghanistan. In an interview with the BBC Persian, Lieutenant General Mohammad Sharif Yaftali added that President Ashraf Ghani discussed the issue with his Iranian counterpart Hassan Rouhani in Tehran in August but did not disclose details of the meeting. He stressed that the Afghan government wants to resolve the issue through “dialogue and understanding”
Lately, Iran has been particularly alarmed by the growth of ISIS in Afghanistan. Tehran fears that the terrorist group can infiltrate into Iran by recruiting disenchanted Sunni youth in its southeast and northwest regions. The Iranian province of Sistan and Baluchestan, which borders Afghanistan and Pakistan, has long suffered low-intensity insurgency. To counter the threat, Iran, according to Afghan officials, has expanded its support to Taliban groups in western Afghanistan to create a buffer zone and keep ISIS at bay. But given that most ISIS militants in Afghanistan are Taliban splinters, as Saleh elaborated on during his remarks at the Tehran conference, the IRGC is indeed exacerbating the terrorism problem that destabilizes Afghanistan and increasingly threaten Iran as well.
Likewise, the top American commander in AfghanistantoldCongress last February that Iran and Russia are supporting the Taliban to undermine the U.S. mission to stabilize the war-ravaged country. Army Gen. John Nicholson told the Senate Armed Services Committee that the Iranian government is providing the Taliban with weapons and financial assistance, particularly in western Afghanistan. He also noted that Tehran is also recruiting Shiite fighters in Afghanistan and deploying them to defend the Syrian regime of Iran’s ally Bashar al-Assad. "Russia, Iran, and al Qaeda are playing significant roles in Afghanistan—this wasn't the case a few years ago," the American generaltestified. “I believe [these actions] are in part to undermine the United States and NATO, and prevent this strong partnership that we have with the Afghans in the region,” he told lawmakers during a Congressional hearing.
On the surface, Iran’s support for the Taliban does not appear logical: Taliban is a reactionary militant group that massacred Afghan Shiites in late 1990s, and Iran and the Taliban almost went to war when the latter killed Iranian diplomats in northern Afghanistan. The Taliban's return to power in Afghanistan would undermine Iran’s geopolitical interests in South and Central Asia and pose a serious threat to Iran’s internal security as well – particularly in its restive Sunni-majority province of Sistan and Baluchestan. But by providing measured support to the Taliban, the Iranian government is pursuing several key objectives in Afghanistan: to accelerate the withdrawal of U.S. troops from its eastern border; to establish a buffer zone in western Afghanistan against a potential threat of Islamic State; to use its ties with the Taliban for its geopolitical agenda in South and Central Asia as well as in the Middle East; and to pressure the Afghan government for political concessions.
The Middle East Institute (MEI) is an independent, non-partisan, non-for-profit, educational organization. It does not engage in advocacy and its scholars’ opinions are their own. MEI welcomes financial donations, but retains sole editorial control over its work and its publications reflect only the authors’ views. For a listing of MEI donors, please clickhere.
media@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x241
events@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x202
development@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x203
mej@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x205
communications@mei.edu
202-785-1141
Middle East Institute1763 N St. NW, Washington D.C. 20036

© 2018 Middle East Institute All Rights Reserved |Accessibility Policy| Built bySocial Driver.

Title: 
            Senior Afghan politician says Taliban leadership not in Pakistan
          
US
Mahaz-e-Milli party says it will take along delegation of clerics to engage Taliban in talks
COMMENTS (5)
Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive.
For more information, please see ourComments FAQ
Ryan Murphy responds to Erik Menendez's criticism of Netflix's 'Monsters: The Lyle and Erik Menendez Story’
This news follows reports that Kim is becoming increasingly worried about Kanye’s recent behavior.
Fans react as Meek Mill declares, 'I wanna hire an investigative team,' offering $100K to clear his name in Diddy case
TikToker Jacob Savage faces controversy after alleged explicit video of him cheating with ex Rachel Weaver goes viral.
LHC orders removal of Parvez Elahi’s name from no-fly list
Drug-using youngsters soaring into millions
COAS General Syed Asim Munir visits Wana, praises security forces and local support
Six companies to bid as PIA goes up for auction on October 1
Indian actor and member of parliament arrested in rape case released on bail
Pindi seals 108 under-construction buildings
Increasing Commercial Confidence through Meditation
Future of higher education
TAPI progression and prospect of Pakistan-Iran gas pipeline
Understanding constitutional package: a logical approach
Pakistan-BD proximity and scepticism in India
Bharat and the idea of India
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
redistributed or derived from. Unless otherwise stated, all content is
copyrighted © 2024 The Express Tribune.

Title: Why Trump is right about Pakistan – Sonoran News
In his first Tweet of 2018, President Donald Trump highlighted the chronic Pakistani duplicity in regard to the war in Afghanistan:
“The United States has foolishly given Pakistan more than 33 billion dollars in aid over the last 15 years, and they have given us nothing but lies & deceit, thinking of our leaders as fools. They give safe haven to the terrorists we hunt in Afghanistan, with little help. No more!”
While publicly supporting U.S. efforts to stabilize Afghanistan, Pakistan secretly provides safe haven andde factosponsors a Taliban educational, training and financial infrastructure to sustain a proxy war against Afghanistan in order to preserve it as a client state.
Case in point from information provided by on-the-ground sources in Pakistan.
Abdul Basit Ahmedzai Mengal operates a religious school (Madrasa Qazi Abad) and mosque in Nushki District, Balochistan province, Pakistan. Originally from the village of Zaro Chah near the border with Afghanistan, he has two wives and his son, Abdul Latif Mengal, is a student at Bolan Medical College in Quetta.
Abdul Basit Ahmedzai Mengal is said to be affiliated with the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam Nazryati political party and a staunch supporter of the Taliban. The Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (JUI) party has its origins in the fundamentalist Deobandi ideology and the JUI offshoots have opposed Pakistan’s logistical support of the U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan. Abdul Basit Ahmedzai Mengal reportedly lived in Afghanistan when the Taliban were in power.
Whether Abdul Basit Ahmedzai Mengal is aware or not, the sources claim that the Madrasa Qazi Abad is a well-known transit point and resting place for Taliban fighters going to and returning from Afghanistan.
It is also said to be located near a Pakistani Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) office/safe house with whom Abdul Basit Ahmedzai Mengal is reported to have close relations.
This alleged Taliban transit point and rest stop in Pakistan is about a forty-minute drive on public roads from the Afghanistan border. Despite numerous Pakistani military check-points along this route, local observers have noted no restrictions for personnel traveling to and from Madrasa Qazi Abad.
The Taliban are said to cross the border into the Kandahar province, Afghanistan from an area called Gaz Nali and then move to temporary camps in the region known as Ghori or Goori. The Afghanistan area for the movement of Taliban fighters back into Pakistan’s Nushki district is most often Shorawak.
Such on-the-ground reports of official Pakistani support of or acquiescence to the Taliban presence are difficult to verify because access to border areas is highly restricted. Nevertheless, there are dozens of other such examples demonstrating a permanent infrastructure in Pakistan that sustains the Taliban and acts as staging grounds for attacks in Afghanistan. The strategy Pakistan employs is always to do just enough to prevent the U.S. and NATO from succeeding in Afghanistan, that is, perpetual stalemate.
That should not be surprising because Pakistan sees China as its most important ally, not the U.S. And Chinese regional ambitions cannot be achieved if the U.S. maintains influence or a presence in Afghanistan.
The ISI chief, Lieutenant General Naveed Mukhtar, for example,wrotein his U.S Army War College thesis entitled “Afghanistan — Alternative futures and their implications,” that there are four possible scenarios for the future of Afghanistan, all of which involve U.S. and NATO withdrawal. He states that Afghanistan’s true stakeholders are its six immediate neighbors China, Iran, Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, and Turkmenistan. The future U.S. role in Afghanistan, according to Mukhtar, is relegated to diplomacy, where “America would have to make aggressive diplomatic efforts to dissuade provocative action or intervention by regional players,” meaning, mainly, preventing Indian influence in Afghanistan.
President Trump is correct to question our investment in Pakistan’s intentions, as well as an Afghanistan strategy dependent upon them.
Lawrence Sellin, Ph.D. is a retired colonel with 29 years of service in the US Army Reserve and a veteran of Afghanistan and Iraq. Colonel Sellin is the author of “Restoring the Republic: Arguments for a Second American Revolution”He receives email at[email protected].

Title: No title found


Title: Afghanistan under attack – The Frontier Post
Mohammed Harun Arsalai
The recent attack on Save the Children in Afghanistan is further proof that the country is still at war, and solutions to end the violence are few and far between. Residents of Nangarhar province are being attacked from all sides. The Taliban, Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP) and other militant groups pass back and forth through Nangarhar’s 100km border with neighbouring Pakistan.
Local leaders and strongmen hold a tight grip on poor local communities, the Taliban are ever-present even offering to broker land disputes, the US military regularly conducts airstrikes which often times kill civilians, but it’s ISKP that all factions in Nangarhar want eliminated. A suicide car bomb was detonated allowing for insurgents armed with AK-47s to enter the Save the Children NGO building in Jalalabad city early Wednesday morning.
Sources on the ground indicate that the fighting is ongoing and employees of Save the Children, a Non Governmental Organisation based in the UK, were still holed up in the buildings bunker as security forces continue to battle their way through the building. Sources within the governors office have confirmed that the first and second story of the NGO have been cleared by Afghan security forces, but that two floors and at least one insurgent remained. There were approximately 50 people inside the building at the time of the attack and up to 40 maybe still be in the compound, trapped, at the time of writing this.
“The governor received a call from the head of the organisation shortly after the first explosion” said an anonymous source within the governor’s office, “he said that many of the NGO’s employees were hiding in a bunker and asked that the security forces please be careful in their operation not to harm the employees”. At least 20 people, including children, had been taken to a local hospital.
At least two have been confirmed killed, one civilian from the explosion of the initial car bomb and an Afghan soldier who died during the battle with insurgents. A local shopkeeper told me that a car bomb detonated killing a beggar pulling a cart and also killing or severely injuring another shopkeeper. So far two attackers have been killed with at least two more insurgents continuing to battle Afghan security forces.
The Taliban were quick to deny any involvement leading authorities to believe that ISKP militants carried out the attack – the group has now released a message claiming responsibility.
The Murky History of ISKP in Nangarhar: As US and Afghan forces battle to stop the growth of ISKP in Nangarhar the group continues to hold ground in several rural areas in the mountainous Achin district as well as in Boti Kot, Khogyani and Pacher Agam, but continue to be a violent and deadly force in other regions of the country like Jawzjan in the north and within major cities like Kabul and Jalalabad. ISKP’s growth inside Afghanistan, much like the group’s inception, has been a point of contention among journalists, analysts and government officials alike.
Blame has been thrown in the direction of Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the Haqqani Network, Pakistan’s intelligence service – the ISI, the Afghan NDS as well as others including the USA. The groups appearance was first reported by locals in Achin, but shortly after in Boti Kot and other districts as well, though the two do not seem connected. In Achin, locals say refugees fleeing the Pakistani military and US drone strikes came and settled in the region.
Some of the young men among them encouraged the locals to join them and fight of what they called “the oppression of the Taliban” – which they did, successfully. What came after, was a brutality that the locals had not yet witnessed. In the Boti Kot region however, a disgruntled Taliban leader angry with the groups peace negotiations with the National Unity Government declared his allegiance to ISIS and began a campaign in his local area. Children were abducted and forced to fight along side his men.  This led to fighting among the newly formed ISKP and the Taliban who had traditionally held territory in the areas.
Locals also began taking up arms against ISKP and joined “uprising” groups led by local strongmen, while others coordinated with Afghan Security Forces or even the Taliban in an effort to fight off ISKP in Nangarhar. Local politician and strongman, Haji Zaheer Abdul Qadeer was initially the main advocator and actor in the battle against ISKP in Nangarhar but according to the Afghan Analysts Network (AAN), “other mobilising forces for the militias are Haji Hayat Khan, another former jihadi commander, close to Provincial Governor Muhammad Gulab Mangal and active in Kot.”
In a 2015 interview with this journalist Qadeer complained that the government had done little to nothing to support his efforts and that the group was being allowed to spread, even claiming that the president’s Chief Intelligence Advisor Mohamad Hanif Atmar was behind ISKP’s inception.
Qadeer pointed to an interview with Paktika governor Abdul Karim Mateen in which Mateen claims that Atmar brought money to a branch of the Taliban that then initiated an ISIS cell in the area. Others within the government have also suggested this by indicating Atmar was eager to foment in-fighting amongst the Taliban who had been having deep internal disputes and either mistakenly, or consciously funded the most radical elements of the Taliban.
President Ashraf Ghani was forced to investigate the claims, but has maintained that the allegations are without merit. On 13 April 2017, newly elected president Donald Trump and his generals in Afghanistan dropped the MOAB or the “mother of all bombs” in the area of Achin, which did little to nothing to stop ISKP in the area.  Achin remains the most dangerous place for US troops in the world.
ISKP continues to target civilian or soft targets as well the Hazara community in an effort further destabilize and sectarianise an already devastated country. At this point it is clear the group is lodged in quite deeply and their popularity is growing among the youth. Ashraf Ghani’s approach has not centered on building alternatives for Afghans outside of joining armed groups, be that the ANA or the ISKP. Without an approach that centres Afghanistan’s underprivileged, the violence will continue to be an inevitability.
Copyright © 2024. All right reservedThe Frontier Post

Title: Islamic State Claims Attack on Save the Children Office in Jalalabad – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
As of writing, official sources indicate that at least three people have been killed and 20 injured.
Smokes rises after a deadly suicide attack in Jalalabad, east of Kabul, Afghanistan, Wednesday, Jan. 24, 2018. Attahullah Khogyani, spokesman for the provincial governor, said a group of gunmen stormed the office of the non-governmental organization, Save the Children.
On Wednesday morning, about 9 a.m. local time, a suicide bomber detonated a vehicle-borne explosive device near the entrance to a compound housing Save the Children’s offices in Jalalabad, Afghanistan. Gunmen then entered the compound.
As of writing,official sources indicatethat at least three people have been killed and 20 injured.
The Islamic State reported a suicide attack and raid on “British, Swedish and Afghan institutions in Jalalabad” by three of its fighters in amessagedisseminated via its news agency, Amaq.
Save the Children, based in London, is an international non-governmental organization promoting the rights of children and providing relief and support services in developing countries. The organization, which operates in 120 countries, has been active in Afghanistan since 1976. According to its website, Save the Children currently is implementing programs in 16 of Afghanistan’s 34 provinces, and said in a statement it reaches almost 1.4 million children in the country.
In astatement, Federica Mogherini, the European Union’s High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs, said, “Saving lives should not cost lives.” The statement went on to condemn that attack as a “grave violation of international humanitarian law.”
“We will not allow acts of terror to deter our support to those most in need in Afghanistan,” the statement declared.
Save the Children announced it would be suspending operations in Afghanistan temporarily. “We remain committed to resuming our operations and lifesaving work as quickly as possible, as soon as we can be assured that it is safe to do so,” a spokesman said in anemailed statement.
Aid agencies and humanitarian NGOs have found it increasingly difficult to operate in Afghanistan. In some cases, these groups are targeted specifically by militants. In others, such as thedevastating U.S. airstrikeon a MSF hospital in Kunduz, serious and deadly mistakes are made.
Jalalabad is the capital of Afghanistan’s eastern Nangarhar province, which borders Pakistan. The province is considered a stronghold for the Islamic State’s Afghanistan affiliate, sometimes referred to as ISIS-K or ISKP (Islamic State in Khorasan Province).
In April 2017, the United States dropped the so-called Mother of All Bombs (MOAB — Massive Ordnance Air Blast bomb) on a tunnel complex used by ISIS-K in Achin, a district in Nangarhar. As an AAN report in the aftermath noted, U.S. forces had been launching air strikes throughout 2016 and early 2017 in coordination with ground operations led by Afghan and U.S. Special Forces in the province.
“The emerging pattern of these efforts, though, was that of successful offensives, with the seizure of significant territory from ISKP, followed by the inability of conventional Afghan forces to hold the ground that the Special Forces had taken,” the report noted. “As a result, ISKP would push back and return. In several cases, ISKP brutally killed local Afghan forces after the operations had ended.”
The usage of the MOAB, a first, was viewed through several lenses. The American political sphere viewed it in part as a demonstration of President Donald Trump’s unleashing of ‘his generals.’ Months later, when the administration finally unveiled its Afghanistan strategy — labeled its South Asia strategy —Trump pledged to refocus the fight, abandoning timetables and lashing out at Pakistan for its role as a “safe haven” for terrorists. “Working alongside our allies,” he said in announcing the strategy, “we will break [the terrorists’] will, dry up their recruitment, keep them from crossing our borders, and, yes, we will defeat them, and we will defeat them handily.”
The Afghan government has welcomed the Trump administration’s recommitment to the fight, including promises to send a few thousand more troops But the impact of this shift toward the offensive has not become clear.
The Islamic State attack on Save the Children in Jalalabad comes days after a Taliban attack on the Intercontinental Hotel in Kabul, an assault which has resulted in at least 30 deaths.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:30Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: 
		'Persistent, Expanding and Worrisome': ISIS Rebounds in Afghanistan	
Your Trusted Source for National Security News & Analysis
YouTubeLinkedInXFacebookInstagram
Bottom Line:With the original ISIS core nearly expelled from its so-called caliphate in Syria and Iraq, other ISIS branches are growing in influence and lethality. Skilled fighters and funding are flowing to ISIS Khorasan Province in Afghanistan where the group has taken advantage of the country’s weak central government and harsh geographic terrain to fend off invaders and exude a winning aura.U.S. and Afghan forces claim they have killed ISIS fighters by the thousands, but those numbers are being replenished by new militant recruits eager to join what they see as a “winning” team.
Background:ISIS in Afghanistan, known as ISIS Khorasan Province (ISKP), first emerged in 2014 and operates primarily in the country’s eastern Nangarhar Province along the porous Afghan-Pakistan border.
Access all of The Cipher Brief’s national security-focused expert insight by becoming a Cipher Brief Subscriber+ Member.
Sign UpLog In
Related Articles
EXPERT INTERVIEW — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has arrived in the U.S., bringing with him what he calls a “plan for victory” to present to President[…]More

DEEP DIVE — Few Americans have ever heard of Unit 29155 or 161 Center. For those who have, the names evoke fear and loathing.    Access[…]More

SUBSCRIBER + INTERVIEW – We say this often, but it really is a pivotal moment in Russia’s war against Ukraine. While Russian troops make small[…]More

DEEP DIVE — Ismael “El Mayo” Zambada, a co-founder and leader of Mexico’s notorious Sinaloa Cartel, has entered a not guilty plea to 17 drug trafficking[…]More

EXPERT INTERVIEW — Even by the standards of Mideast intrigue and covert operations, what happened Tuesday afternoon in Lebanon was startling: for roughly an hour, beginning[…]More

EXCLUSIVE REPORTING — It’s become the premier conference on the war in Ukraine, and this year it had the feel of a political or even[…]More

Trending

YouTubeLinkedInXFacebookInstagram
For general inquiries please email[email protected]
For general inquiries please email[email protected]YouTubeLinkedInXFacebookInstagram
Search

Title: 
		'Persistent, Expanding and Worrisome': ISIS Rebounds in Afghanistan	
Your Trusted Source for National Security News & Analysis
YouTubeLinkedInXFacebookInstagram
Bottom Line:With the original ISIS core nearly expelled from its so-called caliphate in Syria and Iraq, other ISIS branches are growing in influence and lethality. Skilled fighters and funding are flowing to ISIS Khorasan Province in Afghanistan where the group has taken advantage of the country’s weak central government and harsh geographic terrain to fend off invaders and exude a winning aura.U.S. and Afghan forces claim they have killed ISIS fighters by the thousands, but those numbers are being replenished by new militant recruits eager to join what they see as a “winning” team.
Background:ISIS in Afghanistan, known as ISIS Khorasan Province (ISKP), first emerged in 2014 and operates primarily in the country’s eastern Nangarhar Province along the porous Afghan-Pakistan border.
Access all of The Cipher Brief’s national security-focused expert insight by becoming a Cipher Brief Subscriber+ Member.
Sign UpLog In
Related Articles
EXPERT INTERVIEW — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has arrived in the U.S., bringing with him what he calls a “plan for victory” to present to President[…]More

DEEP DIVE — Few Americans have ever heard of Unit 29155 or 161 Center. For those who have, the names evoke fear and loathing.    Access[…]More

SUBSCRIBER + INTERVIEW – We say this often, but it really is a pivotal moment in Russia’s war against Ukraine. While Russian troops make small[…]More

DEEP DIVE — Ismael “El Mayo” Zambada, a co-founder and leader of Mexico’s notorious Sinaloa Cartel, has entered a not guilty plea to 17 drug trafficking[…]More

EXPERT INTERVIEW — Even by the standards of Mideast intrigue and covert operations, what happened Tuesday afternoon in Lebanon was startling: for roughly an hour, beginning[…]More

EXCLUSIVE REPORTING — It’s become the premier conference on the war in Ukraine, and this year it had the feel of a political or even[…]More

Trending

YouTubeLinkedInXFacebookInstagram
For general inquiries please email[email protected]
For general inquiries please email[email protected]YouTubeLinkedInXFacebookInstagram
Search

Title: Three IS Key Members Among 14 Dead in Laghman Airstrikes | Ariana News
‘Engagement is key’ with Afghanistan, says UN political chief
UN chief says new laws ‘strip Afghan women and girls’ of all their rights
IEA blasts UN for not being invited to United Nations General Assembly
Iran walls off part of border with Afghanistan
IEA extends condolences to Iran following deadly coal mine explosion
Biden designates UAE as a second major defense partner after India
Israeli troops raid, order closure of Al Jazeera’s West Bank bureau
Top Hezbollah commander among 14 killed in Israeli strike on Beirut
More than 100 killed or missing as Sinaloa Cartel war rages in Mexico
Israel unleashes heavy strikes on Lebanon as US, UK urge restraint
Iran’s Guards ban communications devices after strike on Hezbollah
Pakistan picks new chief of powerful spy agency ISI
Sri Lankans elect Marxist-leaning Dissanayake as president to fix economy
At least 30 dead in Iran coal mine explosion
Iran gave Russia missiles but no launchers, sources say
Tahawol: Kabul-Islamabad ties discussed
Tahawol: 79th session of UN General Assembly discussed
Tahawol: UNSC meeting on situation in Afghanistan reviewed
Tahawol: Central Asian countries’ demand to engage with Afghanistan discussed
Tahawol: UNSC to hold meeting on Afghanistan discussed
Trade between Afghanistan and Pakistan drops sharply
Construction of 252 MVA substation in Kabul’s Tarakhel gets underway
Energy minister, Indian company talk handover of Arghandi 500 KV substation
Baradar hails Termez Trade Center as a ‘new chapter’ in Afghan-Uzbek partnership
Bayat Power in talks with Afghan officials for Phase 2 of gas to electricity project
Afghan national cricket players return to Kabul after ODI series win against South Africa
France accused of ‘match-fixing’ over dismal performance against Iran at Futsal World Cup
South Africa win last game of ODI series against Afghanistan
Afghanistan advance to knockout stage of FIFA Futsal World Cup in Uzbekistan
Afghanistan’s Futsal WC fate hangs in balance
Did the US just get lured into war with the Houthis?
OPED: Is the West’s conscience being overshadowed by its political ego?
Peace won’t be found in silence or fear, says AIHRC chair
OPINION: The awful truth about growing up in Afghanistan
Published
on
By

Three key members of the Islamic State terror group were killed along 11 terrorists as the result of airstrikes carried out by Afghan Air Forces in Laghman province, said the Ministry of Interior through a statement.
"Afghan Air forces targeted Islamic State terrorists yesterday with airstrikes after identifying and locating them in Masoor, Kandagul, and Noorlam villages of Alingar district", the statement issued today reads.
According to Ministry of Interior (MoI), the three dead key members of the Islamic State or Daesh terror group were identified as Musa, Mawlawi Feroz and Mawlawi Turab.
It further noted that some weapons and munitions belonging to the terror group were also destroyed in the airstrikes.
Afghan forces have recently intensified its air fight against the Islamic State of Khurasan Province (ISKP) which also known locally as Deash terror group in the country.
Dozens of Daesh fighters including citizens of France and Uzbekistan were reportedly killed in Afghan airstrikes which were carried out last week in the Northern Jawzjan province.
While it was previously claimed by Afghan president and the international forces in Afghanistan that ISKP terrorists are on the run in the country, but the terrorists have recently spread a significant presence in some provinces of the country.
New Year’s Eve 2020 Celebrations Across the World
Afghan-origin gym owner shot dead in Delhi
German police shoot to death an Afghan man who carried out attack
Türkiye sends in more humanitarian aid to Herat earthquake victims
Israeli strikes kill at least 37 Palestinians near Gaza’s Rafah as offensive expands
Floods leave 33 dead, 27 injured in past month
Muttaqi calls Hamas leader following the death of his three sons in Israeli strike
Rosemary DiCarlo said the situation has been complicated by the IEA’s new morality law
Published
on
By
The head of UN political affairs, Rosemary DiCarlo, on Monday warned that the Doha process is at risk given the Islamic Emirate’s increasing restrictive policies.
Addressing a meeting on women’s rights in New York, ahead of the UN General Assembly, she said the Doha process “entails a step-for-step approach” with the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (IEA), requiring them to, for example, make governance more inclusive, and to respect women’s and girl’s rights.
In exchange, the international community would then incrementally ease restrictions and provide development support.
DiCarlo said the situation has been complicated by the IEA’s new morality law.
“We had Member States willing to engage, willing to go forward with a step-for-step project. However, I think we risk right now of ending this process,” she warned.
“At this point, those who've been participating in our process want to continue, but they really expect the Taliban (IEA) to take part in good faith, and they've got to start abiding by their international obligations.”
She emphasized that “engagement is key”, stressing that “we cannot let Afghan women and men down.”
The general debate of the 79th session of the General Assembly opened Tuesday, 24 September, and will continue through Saturday, 28 September, and conclude on Monday, 30 September 2024.
The theme for the general debate of the 79th session of the General Assembly is "Leaving no one behind: acting together for the advancement of peace, sustainable development and human dignity for present and future generations".


The UN chief stressed that the oppression of women undermines Afghanistan’s development
Published
on
By
UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres on Monday warned that Afghanistan’s new laws "strip Afghan women and girls of their rights and freedoms across the board," and are causing harm to the nation.
Speaking on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly in New York, Guterres said there was "a deep crisis of gender-based discrimination and oppression" against women in Afghanistan.
"Afghan women and girls are largely confined to their homes, with no freedom of movement and almost no access to education or work," said the UN chief.
Stating that Afghan women also suffer high rates of violence, honor killings, and rising maternal mortality, he said many feel "unsafe, isolated and powerless."
The UN chief stressed that the oppression of women undermines Afghanistan's development and said: "Extreme gender-based discrimination is not only a systematic abuse of women and girls and a violation of human rights conventions and laws. It is self-harm on a national scale."
He called on Afghan authorities to remove all restrictions against women and girls, reopen schools, and allow women to fully participate in society.
"Without recognizing the rights of one-half of its population, Afghanistan will never take its rightful place on the global stage," Guterres said.
The ruling Islamic Emirate has however repeatedly said that women’s rights are ensured in Afghanistan in accordance with Sharia law.
Zia Ahmad Takal, Deputy Spokesman of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said the absence of an IEA representative at the summit was a violation of the rights of the people of Afghanistan.
Published
on
By
Afghanistan’s foreign ministry has lashed out at the United Nations for not inviting an Islamic Emirate representative to attend the 79th UN General Assembly which gets underway in New York on Tuesday.
Zia Ahmad Takal, Deputy Spokesman of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said the absence of an IEA representative at the summit was a violation of the rights of the people of Afghanistan.
He said given the situation in the country, positive decisions should be made by the international community with regards to the country.
The Islamic Emirate appointed Suhail Shaheen as the permanent representative of Afghanistan to the United Nations, but the UN has not yet handed over the seat to the IEA.
The 79th UN General Assembly, deemed one of the largest global diplomatic events, will get underway on Tuesday in New York.
The General Assembly is held annually at UN headquarters in New York, bringing together the heads of state and government of member states. It is to take place from Sept. 24 to 30.
The 79th session will be opened by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and will be chaired by Cameroonian President Philemon Yong.
At least 133 heads of state and government, three vice presidents, 80 deputy prime ministers and 45 ministers are expected to attend.
UN leaders are meeting as numerous crises, conflicts and wars play out around the world.
Many of these, including Gaza, Ukraine, Sudan and Haiti crises are expected to be on the agenda.
On Gaza, along with emphasizing a cease-fire, member states are expected to highlight Israel’s violations of international law and UN resolutions, as well as the difficulties in delivering humanitarian aid to the region, Anadolu reported.
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas is scheduled to speak the morning of Sept. 26, while Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is scheduled for the afternoon.
This year, the main theme of the UN General Assembly discussions is "Leaving no one behind: acting together for the advancement of peace, sustainable development and human dignity for present and future generations."
"Today's global order simply does not work for everyone. In fact, I would go further and say: it's not working for anyone," said Guterres.
Therefore, it is expected that leaders will address the reform of the Security Council and the international financial architecture.

Pakistani minister calls for increased foreign aid for Afghan refugees
Iran through to knockout phase after defeating Guatemala in Futsal World Cup
South Africa confirms it will continue playing bilateral cricket with Afghanistan
Israel unleashes heavy strikes on Lebanon as US, UK urge restraint
Miller accuses House Republicans of subpoenaing Blinken over Afghanistan when he’s away
Tahawol: UNSC meeting on situation in Afghanistan reviewed
More than 100 killed or missing as Sinaloa Cartel war rages in Mexico
Afghanistan hand South Africa another heavy defeat
Copyright © 2024 Ariana News. All rights reserved!

Title: World Report 2018 - Afghanistan | Refworld
Search
Search
Search
Events of 2017
Fighting between Afghan government and Taliban forces intensified through 2017, causing high numbers of civilian casualties. Principally in Nangarhar province, government forces also battled the Islamic State of Khorason Province (ISKP), the Afghan branch of the extremist group Islamic State (also known as ISIS). A number of particularly deadly suicide attacks in urban areas, some claimed by ISKP, killed and wounded more than 2,000 people across the country. A growing number of these attacks targeted Afghanistan's Shia Hazara minority. Civilian casualties caused by government forces during ground fighting declined; however, US forces expanded their use of airstrikes, including drones, in military operations, causing increased civilian casualties.
Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) continued to rely on irregular militia forces, some of which killed and assaulted civilians. War crimes suspect Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, one of several political figures accused of shelling Kabul during the 1990s, returned to Kabul as part of a 2016 peace deal with the government; clashes between his militia forces and rivals killed at least 20 civilians. Both the Taliban and ANSF used schools for military purposes, which, together with countrywide insecurity, deprived many children, especially girls, of access to education.
The government made some progress in adopting legislation to curb torture, but failed to prosecute serious offenders. Promised reforms to end the use of unscientific and abusive "virginity examinations" for women taken into custody, and the imprisonment of women for so-called morality crimes, did not materialize. Only a fraction of the reported cases of violence against women resulted in prosecutions. The government announced that district council and parliamentary elections would be held in July 2018, three years behind schedule. However, political infighting and security concerns threatened to delay the vote.
Armed Conflict
The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan (UNAMA) documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISKP were responsible for two-thirds of these. Civilian deaths and injuries by pro-government forces and their allies during ground engagements declined; however, those from aerial operations by government and international forces increased by 52 percent to 205 deaths and 261 injured.
Insurgent attacks in major cities caused hundreds of civilian deaths and injuries. ISKP claimed responsibility for the March 8 attack on Kabul's Daud Khan hospital, the main treatment center for wounded Afghan soldiers, that killed at least 30 and wounded dozens. In that attack, insurgents reportedly dressed as doctors shot dead patients in their beds. The May 31 truck bomb that killed at least 92 and wounded more than 500 was the deadliest such attack ever in Kabul. Suicide attackers targeted Shia mosques in Kabul and Herat, killing more than 100.
On August 3-5, local Taliban forces in Sar-i Pul province launched an assault on the village of Mirza Olang, following weeks of fighting between insurgents and Afghan Local Police (ALP) forces. According to UNAMA, the Taliban separated women and children from men, and shot dead at least nine ALP and other pro-government militia members, along with 27 male civilians; among them were four boys ages 13 to 17, and 13 men over 60. They also killed one woman as she was trying to flee. The commander responsible, a relative of the Taliban "shadow governor," had self-identified as being affiliated with ISKP.
The number of internally displaced persons (IDPs) who fled from their homes due to the conflict surged as fighting intensified. More than 250,000 were displaced in the first 10 months of 2017, bringing the nationwide total to at least 1.7 million people. Among the displaced were hundreds of thousands of refugees coerced out of Pakistan with the support of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in 2016. Attacks on civilians contributed to depression and other mental disabilities; Afghanistan has few community-based mental health services to provide treatment.
Women's and Girls' Rights
On March 12, the Attorney General's Office issued a report on prosecutions under the Elimination of Violence against Women (EVAW) law revealing that mediation remains the preferred route for most prosecutors, which women are often compelled to accept due to pressure from family and justice officials. Registered cases represent only a fraction of the actual crimes of violence against women. In late 2016, the Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission (AIHRC) investigated 5,575 cases, noting that most cases of violence against women go unreported. A long-standing effort to reform family law, including divorce provisions, remained stalled.
On March 4, the revised penal code was adopted by presidential decree. It incorporated all the provisions of the EVAW law, while strengthening the definition of rape. However, because a number of conservative members of parliament have opposed the EVAW law, some activists campaigned to preserve the law in its stand-alone form decreed in 2009. In response to their efforts, in August President Ghani ordered the Ministry of Justice to remove the EVAW chapter from the new penal code. The controversial reversal has left the status of the law in limbo.
A long-promised plan by the Afghan government to implement UN Security Council Resolution 1325, which calls for women's equal participation in issues surrounding peace and security, was further delayed during the year. The Kabul Process peace talks in June included only two women among 47 government and international representatives.
Deaths and injuries among women in the conflict increased sharply in 2017, with 298 deaths and 709 injured in the first nine months of the year. Most occurred as a result of suicide bombings and aerial attacks.
Arbitrary Detention, Torture, and Discriminatory Practices
An April report by UNAMA documented the highest levels of torture of conflict-related detainees in police custody since 2010. The report singled out the Kandahar police for torturing 91 percent of detainees by forcibly pumping water into their stomachs, crushing their testicles with clamps, suffocating them to the point of losing consciousness, and applying electric current to their genitals.
In a significant sign of progress in curbing torture, the government in March enacted anti-torture legislation, as part of the new penal code. The law left out a compensation system for victims of torture by state security forces, but in August the cabinet approved an annex to provide for victim redress.
Although the Afghan Constitution prohibits torture, the new provisions expand the definition in conformity with the UN Convention Against Torture, and create a new monitoring body, the Commission Against Torture; however, as of December it was not clear whether this would include staff from the AIHRC. The government did not prosecute any senior officials accused of torture.
In May, a report by the UN Committee Against Torture described "numerous and credible allegations" of severe human rights abuses, including torture and extrajudicial killings, and urged that all alleged perpetrators "be duly prosecuted and, if found guilty, convicted with penalties that are commensurate with the grave nature of their crimes."
In January 2017, the Afghan attorney general ordered nine of First Vice President Abdul Rashid Dostum's guards to answer questions in connection with the abduction, illegal imprisonment, and sexual assault of rival Uzbek politician Ahmad Ischi. Dostum refused to allow his guards to report to the attorney general, who then settled for interviewing seven of them on the premises of Dostum's compound. On November 1, seven of the bodyguards were convicted in absentia of sexual assault and illegal imprisonment, and sentenced to five years' imprisonment. As of December 2017, none was in custody.
In Afghanistan, same-sex relations are punishable by 5 to 15 years in prison under a law that bans all sex between individuals not married to each other.
Freedom of Expression
The year looked likely to surpass 2016 as the bloodiest since 2001 for Afghan journalists, with 10 killed in the first six months of the year, most of them victims of insurgent bombing attacks. Since January, the Afghan Journalists Safety Committee (AJSC) recorded 73 cases of violence and threats against journalists, including deaths, detentions, beatings, and intimidation. Government officials and security personnel were responsible for slightly more than half of the cases; insurgent groups were responsible for the deaths of 10 journalists in suicide attacks in Kabul and Khost.
Protests, Excessive Use of Force, and Restrictions on Freedom of Assembly
On June 2, civil society groups, political activists, and relatives of victims of the May 31 truck bomb attack converged in central Kabul to protest deteriorating security conditions. Some participants threw stones at police, and the group included some armed men among the crowd.
Security forces, principally the presidential palace guard, used water cannons to disperse the crowd, but then used live ammunition despite no real threat to public safety -- first firing guns over the heads of demonstrators, injuring some protesters, then shooting into the crowd, killing seven. The government promised to conduct an investigation. As of December, the results of this investigation had not been made public.
The government subsequently accelerated its consideration of new legislation to restrict demonstrations. The Law on Gatherings, Demonstrations and Strikes narrows the definition of allowed venues for protests; prohibits "influential people" from "politically intervening" in any kind of protest, without clearly defining those terms; and limits protests only to those that have "reform objectives" rather than criticism of government policies alone. Civil society groups condemned the law, which as of December, was pending before parliament.
Children's Rights
Despite the fact that the government in 2016 criminalized military recruitment of Afghans under 18 years old, the practice continued, most notably among the ALP and pro-government militias. The AIHRC reported on increased recruitment by groups affiliated with ISKP in Nangarhar. Both the ANSF and the Taliban continued to occupy or use schools for military purposes in contested areas, affecting the access to education of thousands of children, especially girls.
Afghanistan's new penal code criminalizes the sexual abuse of boys, known in Afghanistan asbacha bazi.
Conflict-related deaths and injuries of children continued at high rates, with 689 deaths and 1,791 injuries in the first nine months of 2017. Almost half of the children detained in relation to the conflict reported being tortured or mistreated.
Key International Actors
On August 22, US President Donald Trump outlined a new US strategy for the war in Afghanistan, vowing to expand military operations to target criminal and terrorist networks, pressure Pakistan to end support for Afghan insurgents, and set no timetable for withdrawal.
In September, the Trump administration reportedly was considering a CIA request to carry out covert drone strikes in Afghanistan; the US military has had exclusive authority to carry out such strikes.
Trump authorized the deployment of an additional 3,900 troops, but the Pentagon acknowledged that actual troop levels were already close to 11,000, significantly higher than the 8,000 previously reported. US airstrikes increased through 2017, and the US provided Black Hawk helicopters and other equipment to support expanded Afghan government air operations.
In September, diplomatic sources indicated that the US was supporting an Afghan government initiative to create an additional village defense force, the Afghan National Army Territorial Force. The force would reportedly absorb some existing militias under army command, though it remained unclear how it would avoid replicating the record of the abusive Afghan Local Police. The US military command in Afghanistan also began classifying key data related to the development of Afghan security forces, most of which has been public since 2008.
In February, the European Union (EU) signed a new agreement with Afghanistan requiring it to accept rejected asylum seekers from Europe and undertake other measures to reduce migration. The agreement also included EU support for development, women's rights, ending corruption, and electoral reform. In July, the European Commission proposed a new EU strategy for Afghanistan, based on these objectives. In May, NATO members agreed to provide Afghan security forces with US$1 billion annually through 2020, and in November agreed to increase their troop commitments by an additional 3,000.
On November 20, the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court (ICC) asked the court's judges for permission to open an investigation into possible war crimes and crimes against humanity in Afghanistan committed by the Taliban and affiliated forces, Afghan National Security Forces, and US armed forces and the Central Intelligence Agency since May 1, 2003, when Afghanistan became a member of the court. The ICC's preliminary examination of allegations of serious international crimes in Afghanistan began in 2007.
[Refworld note:In addition to these texts, someWorld Report 2018country profiles also include "In Numbers" infographics, videos and links to related material. Check for this country on the relevant HRW pagehere.]
Disclaimer:© Copyright, Human Rights Watch
This is not a UNHCR publication. UNHCR is not responsible for, nor does it necessarily endorse, its content. Any views expressed are solely those of the author or publisher and do not necessarily reflect those of UNHCR, the United Nations or its Member States.

Title: Analyst: IS groups unlikely to reconcile with Philippine govt | FMT


Title: Afghanistan: No Letup in War’s Civilian Toll | Human Rights Watch
Few Results on Torture, Women’s Rights Reforms
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
(New York, January 18, 2018) –Afghanistan’sarmed conflict took a high toll on civilians throughout the year, with insurgents carrying out particularly deadly suicide attacks in urban areas, Human Rights Watch said today in itsWorld Report 2018. A new national policy to mitigate harm to civilians during military operations may have contributed to a decrease in civilian casualties by Afghan government forces, but expanded US and government airstrikes caused increased civilian losses.
In the 643-pageWorld Report, its 28th edition, Human Rights Watch reviews human rights practices in more than 90 countries. In hisintroductory essay, Executive DirectorKenneth Rothwrites that political leaders willing to stand up for human rights principles showed that it is possible to limit authoritarian populist agendas. When combined with mobilized publics and effective multilateral actors, these leaders demonstrated that the rise of anti-rights governments is not inevitable.
In Afghanistan, the government’s human rights policy reforms failed to translate into meaningful improvements in curbing torture. Government pledges to end the use of unscientific and abusive “virginity examinations” for women taken into custody, and the imprisonment of women for so-called morality crimes, did not materialize.
“While the Afghan government made progress in passing crucial legislation on torture and recognizing state practices that harm women, real change is not yet realized,” saidPatricia Gossman, senior South Asia researcher at Human Rights Watch. “It’s not enough to enact reforms – there needs to be a meaningful commitment to enforce them.”
Afghanistan’s civil war continued in 2017, with the United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan (UNAMA) documenting 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and armed groups claiming allegiance to the Islamic State of Khorason Province (ISKP), the Afghan branch of the extremist armed group Islamic State (also known as ISIS), were responsible for two-thirds of these. Deaths and injuries from aerial operations by government and international forces increased by 52 percent to 205 deaths and 261 injured. The year looked likely to be the bloodiest since 2001 for Afghan journalists – with 11 killed, most of them the victims of insurgent bombing attacks.
The number of internally displaced persons due to the conflict surged as fighting intensified mid-year. More than 250,000 were displaced in the first 10 months of 2017, bringing the nationwide total to at least 1.7 million people. They included hundreds of thousands of refugees that Pakistani authorities pressured to leave Pakistan in 2016.
In March, the government enacted anti-torture legislation, delayed since 2015. The law omitted a system for compensation for victims of torture by state security forces, but in August the cabinet approved an annex to provide for victim redress. A UNAMA report covering the period from January 2015 through December 2016 documented the highest levels of torture of conflict-related detainees in police custody since 2010. No high-level officials were prosecuted for torture.
In September, diplomatic sources indicated that the US was supporting an Afghan government initiative to create an additional local defense force, the Afghan National Army Territorial Force. The force would reportedly absorb some existing militias under army command, though it remained unclear how it would avoid replicating the record of the abusive Afghan Local Police. The US military command in Afghanistan also began classifying key data related to the development of Afghan security forces, most of which has been public since 2008.
“Trying to bring stability to Afghanistan through irregular militia forces is irresponsible and dangerous,” Gossman said. “All armed forces in Afghanistan need to adhere to the laws of armed conflict, be held responsible when they don’t, and recognize that reducing harm to civilians is essential for genuine security.”
Discrimination and Other Abuses Against Papuans in Indonesia
Abusive Forced Evictions in Pakistan
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
Human Rights Watch defends the rights of people in close to 100 countries worldwide, spotlighting abuses and bringing perpetrators to justice
Get updates on human rights issues from around the globe. Join our movement today.
Every weekday, get the world’s top human rights news, explored and explained by Andrew Stroehlein.
Human Rights Watchis a 501(C)(3) nonprofit registered in the US under EIN: 13-2875808

Title: The fall of ISIS and its implications for South Asia
Author :Kabir Taneja
With the territorial defeat of ISIS in Iraq and Syria, analysts are pondering the kind of organisational form the group would take next. The influence of the so-called Islamic State in South Asia may be minimal, but India, Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan, have all had the shadow of ISIS’ global footprint land on their doorstep. This brief sheds light on how the influence of ISIS spread across South Asia, specifically after 2014, when pro-ISIS social-media platforms circulated the ‘ISIS Khorasan’ maps that showed the region as part of the caliphate’s global ambitions of conquest.
Kabir Taneja is Associate Fellow, Observer Research Foundation.
Iraq’s Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi landed in the besieged city of Mosul on the eve of 10 July 2017 to announce the defeat of the so-called Islamic State. “I announce from here the end and the failure and the collapse of the terrorist state of falsehood and the terrorism which the terrorist Daesh announced from Mosul,”[i]he said in a speech picked up by the international media.
The narrative of the demise of ISIS, and in effect, that of the so-called Islamic State had started to appear in primarily Western discourse months before Abadi’s trip to Mosul. In 2014, ISIS had taken over Iraq’s second largest city with relative ease, and their leader, Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi took to the Great Mosque of Al-Nuri in the city centre to announce the institutionalisation of their proto-state. Between 2014 and 2016, ISIS conquered territory at a perilous pace in both Iraq and Syria, setting up governates (wilayat) to install its rules and laws according to the organisation’s interpretations of Islam. This brief attempts to analyse and contextualise the influence and impending effects of a territorially down, but ideologically stable ‘post-geography’ Islamic State in South Asia. It utilises comparative works and primary research to understand a dynamic war that has gone beyond the concepts of land and borders.
The rapid decline of the ISIS caliphate has raised many questions over the structure that the group would take after their loss of territory. Researchers have studied available data and examined scenarios looking at the fate of other global insurgency movements in the past, along with local sectarian dynamics in Syria and Iraq. These methodologies, in some ways, have re-designed the scholarly debate around the topic of terrorism itself. They have, however, their own limitations when used to study IS. The grey areas under which the proto-state operated offered no compelling and targeted arguments on the future form of the organisation, both political and strategic.
The fall of Mosul was a pivotal point in the war against ISIS, with the recapture of the city that ended with ISIS destroying the Al-Nuri mosque. Moving forward from July 2017, ISIS has lost its territorial controls at a rapid pace, as the Iraqi military, backed by a collective of anti-ISIS militias and US-led Western coalition under the programme ‘Inherent Resolve’ liberated one city after the other (See Figures 1 and 2). In Syria, while the optics were politically different — with Russia and Iran backing Syrian president Bashar Al-Assad’s regime — territorial loss for ISIS, including the recent loss of its de-facto capital Raqqa, diminished its influence. Perhaps, more importantly, its global narrative has also weakened.[ii]
However, the narrative of the “end” of ISIS is based on a false equation that defines a long-term military victory over the group as a strategic win. It is imperative to remember that ISIS started as an insurgency, born out of Al Qaeda’s attempts to set up a strong presence in Iraq under Al Qaeda in Iraq’s (AQI) first leader and ideologue, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi.[v]Relinquishing territory back to the Iraqi and Syrian governments has been a significant moral setback for ISIS. This can be measured by its constant and often increasing media output, trying to maintain the morale of not only its fighters on the ground, but the important online support base the organisation has skilfully cultivated over the past four years.
The narrative of the “end” of ISIS is based on a false equation that defines a long-term military victory over the group as a strategic win. It is imperative to remember that ISIS started as an insurgency, born out of Al Qaeda’s attempts to set up a strong presence in Iraq under Al Qaeda in Iraq’s (AQI) first leader and ideologue, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi.
These said losses over the past year, which includes critical cities and towns such as Mosul, Kirkuk, Tikrit Fallujah, Ramadi, Tal Afar, Deir ez-Zor, Albu Kamal and now Raqqa, are in themselves a significant study of local politics and socio-cultural and ethnic realities. They hold clues to what the future of ISIS might be. The loss of Raqqa means ISIS will largely be concentrated only in Syria, and predominantly the country’s desert regions in Deir ez-Zor. Facing this situation, ISIS is expected to transform itself from its current proto-state structure back to its original organisational form, which was of an insurgency movement. Even as the Iraqi military has made progress against ISIS, there are signs that the political vacuum in the country that initially led ISIS to succeed in capturing territory is re-emerging.[vi]Members of Sunni tribal militias, in the aftermath of ISIS, have blamed the Iraqi military for labelling them as the Islamic State as well.[vii][viii]This sort of political vacuum, and the lack of political capital to bridge sectarian divides between the Shias and Sunnis in the country was the reason behind Mosul, a largely Sunni city, in large pockets, welcoming ISIS into its streets in 2014. The government of then Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki had suspended Sunnis from the Iraqi military and replaced them with often inept and junior Shias, even for high-ranking roles.[ix]
The situation is more complicated in Syria. While ISIS is on the downturn, the landscape is riddled with smaller insurgencies and terror groups. Some are fighting for the overthrow of the Assad regime, and others are looking to set up their own proto-states that are not too dissimilar to that of the caliphate. Foreign powers such as Russia, US, Iran and Turkey are backing their own militias, creating an extremely complicated web of violence and political interests that makes it increasingly difficult to offer a hypothesis on a plausible permanent outcome. These issues in both Iraq and Syria also leave the door open for ISIS or another similar, mass-moved and well-orchestrated entity, to seep into the power vacuums being left behind.
On 18 September 2017, ISIS released an audio clip allegedly of its elusive leader, al-Baghdadi. The 46-minute clip[x]was divided into two parts. The first addressed an ideological gap in ISIS on the issue oftakfir(or accusing another person of Islamic faith of apostasy),[xi]which had garnered a lot of debate within the organisation. The second was on geo-politics and ISIS, which was important amidst ISIS’ losses and the prolonged silence from al-Baghdadi. The supposed caliph not only addressed internal ideological issues, but gave a morale boost to ISIS fighters saying territorial loss should not be linked to the “truth” (which can be translated to the ideological goals of the organisation). Baghdadi blamed the exhaustion of American foreign policy in the Middle East for its failures to counter Russia’s presence in the region, and ended his speech with a Hollywoodesque statement, “The show must go on.”[xii]
Despite the losses incurred by ISIS, and the various complexities of the ground situation in both Iraq and Syria, one aspect of ISIS’ influence and ability to mobilise supporters that gets lost in the narrative is the organisation’s reach beyond the region, and its abilities and strategies to influence individuals or groups to act in its name in foreign lands. ISIS has governates in places such as Libya and the Philippines, among others; the Philippines is home to the Abu Sayyaf group, which is engaged in fierce fighting with the military in the besieged southern city of Marawi.[xiii]India has even donated a token amount to the Philippines in its battle against ISIS and its affiliates in South East Asia.[xiv]
Despite the initial euphoria, ISIS has not been able to create much of an influence in India. However, the story is not the same for other South Asian states. Afghanistan, where ISIS Khorasan Province (ISKP) has made significant inroads into the country’s complex tribal districts, is now facing a new challenge of its own. Meanwhile, in Bangladesh, the ISIS-inspired attack in July 2016 in the capital Dhaka, and the ongoing Rohingya refugee crisis have raised serious concerns on the prospects of concentrated attempts to radicalisation, specifically in the refugee camps, not only by ISIS, but also by Al Qaeda and a multitude of local jihadist factions. Despite the relative absence of pro-ISIS incidents in countries such as India, the threat remains active; it simply is currently muted due to local dynamics and the fact that ISIS itself has concentrated more on Europe. South Asia’s complex socio-political and socio-cultural narratives remain an open door to ISIS’s marketable fantasy, more than an ideology.
Despite the initial euphoria, ISIS has not been able to create much of an influence in India. However, the story is not the same for other South Asian states.
So far, India has had some 82 active cases of investigations on individuals suspected of engaging in pro-ISIS activities. These include a small group of cases that involved people travelling to or attempting to travel to Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan or Libya with the intention to join ISIS, or those who have shown intentions online to do so. A handful of cases have also involved citizens’ intentions to finance pro-ISIS related activities, either in Iraq, Syria or Afghanistan. The fact that India, with the second largest population of Muslims in the world, has only 80-odd cases of pro-ISIS activities may be regarded as extraordinary, and can be offered as a collection of hypothesis on why Indian Muslims have not taken to the idea of the caliphate’s version of jihad.[xv]The most significant ISIS-related case as far as Indian discourse goes was neither an attack, a bombing nor assassination, but an anonymous account on Twitter, which allegedly became one of the most vocal proponents of ISIS on the internet. The Twitter account known as ShamiWitness (@ShamiWitness) was being run by one Mehdi Biswas, an engineer in a multinational corporation in India’s IT capital, Bengaluru.[xvi]Even during the height of his popularity as ShamiWitness, the Twitter account which even this author followed, was not flagged by Indian authorities. The owner was eventually identified in an investigation by British media organisation Channel 4, which initially thought the account was owned by someone in Sheffield, a city in England with a sizeable South Asian population. This was widely seen as a failure of Indian agencies such as the National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO), India’s premiere technical intelligence agency. The other aspect highlighted from an Indian discourse, but one that was prevalent in Syria and Iraq via the demographics of many of its foreign fighters, was the fact that Biswas was a well-educated and financially stable middle-class individual whose radicalisation could not be traced to traditionally accepted explanations such as poverty and lack of opportunity.
In Afghanistan and Bangladesh, the influence of ISIS has been more prominent and endangers the stability of the wider region. The July 2016 attack in an upscale restaurant in Dhaka, the Holey Artisan Bakery, where 22 people were killed, most of them foreigners, brought the global spotlight of terrorism to Bangladesh. The country had previously been in the news for the killings by Islamists of secular bloggers, minorities, and atheists. The 2016 attack, orchestrated by middle-class, educated Bangladeshi youth, had the signs of ISIS-inspired violence — such as using machetes to hack people to death. ISIS claimed responsibility for the attack, with its media outlets highlighting Bangladesh as its ‘Bengal’ governate.[xvii]In a video released later, Abu issa al-Bengali, a Bangladeshi fighter allegedly with ISIS in Syria said, “What you witnessed in Bangladesh was a glimpse. This will repeat, repeat and repeat until you lose and we win and the sharia is established throughout the world.”[xviii]ISIS claiming the attack showed that local jihadist factions in the country were in touch with the Islamic State, keen to join their vision of the ‘caliphate’ and act upon it. The attraction towards ISIS in Bangladesh has seen a lot of access to the country’s middle class. There have been examples of Bangladeshi and Indian pro-ISIS individuals attempting to work together online to form a larger base of like-minded individuals to create an organised entity that, as other such groups have shown, would build up to an organisation capable of directly coopting with ISIS.[xix]In fact, a former senior military official of Bangladesh has told this author that one of his own family members had gone to Syria to join the Islamic State. This underscores the challenges in attempting to understand a person’s attraction towards IS purely from a demographical, societal or cultural point of view.[xx]
Meanwhile, in Afghanistan, the situation has been more complicated. The Islamic State in Khorasan (ISKP), the Afghan avatar of ISIS, has more territorial presence in the vast ungoverned borderlands between Pakistan and Afghanistan along the disputed Durand Line. Most of the fighters in the ISKP brand are former Pakistan Taliban (TTP) members, who had been fleeing military operations conducted by the Pakistani armed forces in the country’s tribal areas such as FATA and Waziristan. These jihadists arrived in the Achin district in the Nangarhar province and its surrounding areas under the cover of being refugees, and were initially aided by local villagers who sympathised with them for being Pashtuns.[xxi]These “refugees” used the situation to look for new avenues to return to their career path of terrorism, and started to develop an environment and infrastructure for the same, possibly with backing from Pakistani military-supported actors. The United States has taken a more hands-on approach against the ISKP in Afghanistan, with the launch of a GBU-43/B (also known as the ‘Mother of All Bombs’) airstrike against the group in the country’s restive Achin district.[xxii]Media reports say that in US airstrikes and drone strikes against ISKP, some of the fighters who have been killed were Indians from the southern state of Kerala who had travelled to Afghanistan to join ISIS.[xxiii]
Afghanistan’s political vacuum and divisional socio-religious landscape could, however, become a new ground for ISIS, or the debris left behind by the so-called demise of the organisation. An illustration of this is the emergence of reports on foreign ISIS fighters, including those of French and Algerian nationalities, recently arriving in Afghan districts such as Darzab in northern Jowzjan.[xxiv]Analysts have long flagged Afghanistan as a country ripe to host the fall of the Islamic State as fighters flee Iraq and Syria, fueled by the fact that thousands of foreign fighters in ISIS ranks were from Central Asian states that border Afghanistan in the north. For example, Jowzjan, near the city of Mazar-e-Sharif, lies only few hundred miles from a tri-intersection of Afghanistan’s borders with Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan. According to the Soufan Center, 8,717 foreign fighters in ISIS emerged from the erstwhile Soviet Bloc, with Turkmenistan having more than 400 fighters, Uzbekistan more than 1,500 and Tajikistan 1,300.[xxv]The hypothesis of increased terror activities in Afghanistan by the ISKP has strong empirical and historical connotations of jihadist activities in the country, for whom ISKP is only a new, globally popular brand to operate under.
Afghanistan’s political vacuum and divisional socio-religious landscape could, however, become a new ground for ISIS, or the debris left behind by the so-called demise of the organisation.
The influence of ISIS in South Asia is divided according to the local politics, economics and socio-cultural complexities of each state. There is no observable pattern of convergence between various ISIS-affiliated groups or those who have claimed ownership of an attack in the name of the caliphate and only later, on an act of opportunism, has ISIS claimed their deeds. With further losses of manpower, territory and clout, ISIS has also shown signs of claiming failed attacks and rebranding them as a “success”. As terrorism researchers Charlie Winter and Haroro J. Ingram note, singular attacks, irrespective of their size or strength, will become increasingly important for the organisation as it restructures from a proto-state to a terror group, and it will take opportunities of even the miniscule of attacks and play it up to keep the ISIS brand afloat.[xxvi]Winter takes the example of the ‘fire-bomb’ attack in London’s metro train systems in September 2017 targeting a carriage at the Parsons Greens station. The attack was crude, and poorly planned and executed. The Improvised Explosive Device (IED) used was almost unbecoming of what is usually expected from ISIS attacks in Europe. The ingredients were a bucket, some wires and a failed concoction of easily available domestic chemicals. Nonetheless, ISIS claimed ownership of the attack, branded it a success, and eventually gained what it is seeking more of nowadays – a wide-reaching global narrative to counter its losses of the supposed caliphate. In more recent events, ISIS, via its news agency Amaq, claimed the killing of a police officer in Srinagar, Jammu & Kashmir, making it its first “official” operation in the state.[xxvii][xxviii]However, two days later, theal-Nabanewsletter, which comes up with infographics on operational statistics for the group, did not mention India as part of the 19 countries it boasted of ISIS conducting attacks in 2017.
Winter and Ingram further note: “We have to recognize that ISIS’s claims of responsibility are never “just” claims of responsibility. Rather, they are central parts of the terrorist deed, psychological addendums geared toward rigging popular perceptions that are, at times, more impactful than the operation itself. Understanding how these claims — which ISIS itself describes as “media projectiles” — impact a given attack is critical if we are to weather this storm.”[xxix]This hypothesis sketches a picture of what ISIS’ brand and influence can be translated to, in regions far away from the caliphate, including in South Asia.
Other analysts have used previously existing South Asian insurgency models to understand the future course of the Islamic State. In a recent study, Paul Staniland, associate professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago, used the final consequences of insurgencies in South Asia as a comparative to construct a hypothesis on the demise, or the final construct of Islamic State as a proto-state.[xxx]Staniland compares the possible future scenarios for ISIS by studying the likes of the CPI (Maoist) and United Liberation Front of Assam (ULFA) in India, Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) in Sri Lanka, and Kachin Independence Organization in Burma, amongst others. He has devised three plausible scenarios for the future of the Islamic State, the first of which is “fighting to the death”, where a comparative with the LTTE between 2006 and 2009 “Eelam War IV” was achieved.[xxxi]The second is “containment and possible collapse”, where Staniland envisions a “less dramatic” end to the insurgency, with “sustained pressure” diluting the insurgency into guerilla/terror operations, an outcome which has the highest probability. Lastly, there is ISIS returning to its insurgency roots, stepping back, regrouping and reorganising for a comeback during a more politically opportune time.[xxxii]This is seen today particularly with the re-emergence of the Taliban in Afghanistan, which during the peak of the American-led war and the relentless air-campaign in the Tora Bora mountains against Al Qaeda saw the insurgency go underground, detaching Osama Bin Laden’s capabilities to command Al Qaeda’s various insurgencies across the Middle East.[xxxiii]The latest quarterly report released by the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) highlights the deteriorating territorial control of the Afghan government to the Taliban. According to the report, Taliban increased its territorial influence to a total of 13.5 percent of Afghan territory, fully controlling 13 districts and influencing 42.[xxxiv]
One anomaly that currently stands tall in ISIS’ influence in South Asia is that of Pakistan. While few significant cases have come up in Pakistan, ISIS claimed responsibility for two attacks in 2017. The first was in February, when an attack on a Sufi shrine in Baluchistan killed 88 people,[xxxv]and the second was in August, when 15 people were killed in Quetta.[xxxvi]Both attacks were in the restive Baluchistan area where Taliban’s spiritual leadership — known as the Quetta Shura — also resides. Pakistan offers an intertwined military-jihadist-civilian complex to accurately place ISIS’ presence or influence. However, in Kashmir, for both India and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), the influence of ISIS has some quasi-official narrative. According to one of the ISIS cases being investigated in India, the accused pontificates on Kashmir. “In my view, Kashmir was deliberately not chosen by Islamic State to launch their ‘Quest for Caliphate’ in al-Hind. Had it been chosen, there would have been two-front battles. First, with Indian Kuffar Army and second, with Pakistani nationalists, so-called jihadi groups Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT), Hizbul Mujahideen, Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) etc. Wallahi, these factions would never accept merger with Islamic State as their foundation is based on ‘nationalism’ or ‘patriotism’.”[xxxvii]In simpler terms, the quagmire of India and Pakistan’s overtures in Kashmir may actually help in keeping ISIS out.
Over the next few months, ISIS is expected to operate more as a terror organisation, closer to the operational models of Al Qaeda and its peers, as opposed to a ‘caliphate’. According to some media reports, ISIS leaders have already started to move money out of Syria and Iraq in the form of secret financial transfers and business investments.[xxxviii]These resources, which to this day include ISIS earnings of over US$1 million from oil smuggling, will be critical for its future operations both in Syria, Iraq and beyond. The internet is going to remain a steadfast access point for command and control for ISIS. Despite scholars around the world remaining divided on the magnitude of the actual threat posed online by ISIS, there is no reason to doubt that communications by the organisation via Twitter, Facebook and encrypted applications such as Telegram and Wickr, aided by its well-accustomed communications strategy using its own media ecosystem, offer continuous legitimacy to ISIS. Its online presence provides ease of access to its sympathisers and global media alike, a direct connection with its ‘media jihadists’, and perhaps most importantly, a continuous stream of legitimacy. To try and maintain the same level of discourse that ISIS created using media, violence and fear during the period of 2014-15[xxxix]would remain a critical part of its survival strategy.
The deterrence towards ISIS is going to be a combination of on-ground engagement between communities and governance, along with a robust online anti-terror apparatus to keep tabs on pro-ISIS movements on social media, banking, travel, and other arenas. Many cases, for example in India, of authorities alerted towards pro-ISIS activities on Facebook came from foreign intelligence agencies and not domestic ones. While India has showcased a steadfast and robust human intelligence record against deterring terror activities, the Achilles heel remains the online world. A well-operated online intelligence network in India will not only have a domestic benefit, but will give gains to the neighbourhood as well with intelligence sharing, joint online operations and database convergence to keep a check on ISIS’s influence on the internet. However, an intra-South Asian combined effort on issues such as cyber-intelligence faces a massive obstacle in the form of Pakistan, which as a known state-sponsor of terror would not only be a significant loose-end in such an envisioned cyber-intelligence concert, but will look to undermine such an idea to protect its own interests.
[1] “Mosul victory marks collapse of ISIS, says Iraqi Prime Minister”,The Independent, July 10, 2017.
[ii]“US-backed fighters ‘seize 80% of Raqqa from Islamic State’”,The Guardian, September 20, 2017.
[iii]SyriaLive database.
[iv]Ibid
[v]Understanding ISIS: From conception to operationsby Kabir Taneja,Observer Research Foundation, September 2017.
[vi]“How ISIS is transforming”,Foreign Affairs, September 2017.
[vii]“The year after ISIS: The struggles of a Sunni village in northern Iraq”,The Washington Post, September 27, 2017.
[viii]“Locals in former extremists areas live in ruins, cope with lawless militias”,Niqash.org, September 2017.
[ix]Marc Lynch, Iraq Between Maliki and the Islamic State, The Project on Middle East Political Science, 2014, Pg 7.
[x]“ISIS leader seemingly breaks 11 month silence with audio recording”,CNN, September 30, 2017.
[xi]“Dispute over Takfir rocks Islamic State”,MEMRI, September 2017.
[xii]Copy of full speech accessed by the author
[xiii]“Marawi siege ‘most serious terror event’ in Southeast Asia in past 15 years”,PhilStar.com, August 25, 2017.
[xiv]“To fight ISIS, India grants Rs 3.2 crore aid to Philippines”,Times Now, July 12, 2017.
[xv]Tracking ISIS influence in India: Tracking a dynamic global war via New Delhi,Observer Research Foundation, September 2017.
[xvi]“Not merely a sympathizer, Mehdi Biswas represented ISIS”,India Today, June 3, 2015.
[xvii]“New evidence reveals deep ISIS involvement in Bangladesh massacre”,The Wire, December 1, 2016.
[xviii]“‘This will repeat, repeat, repeat’, says ISIS about Dhaka café attack”,NDTV, July 6, 2016.
[xix]This information is a corroboration of information from charge sheets accessed by the author, unavailable for public discourse at the time of writing.
[xx]The Bangladesh military official and his family member’s story was told to the author during talks with Bangladeshi officials in a visit to Dhaka.
[xxi]Osman, Borhan. “The Islamic State in ‘Khorasan’: How it began and where it stands now in Nanagarhar”.Afghanistan Analysts Network, July 27, 2016.
[xxii]“US ‘mother of all bombs’ killed 92 ISIS militants, say Afghan officials”,The Guardian,April 15, 2017.
[xxiii]“Missing Kerala man, suspected ISIS recruit, killed in Afghanistan drone strike”,NDTV, April 14, 2017.
[xxiv]“French ISIS fighters move to Afghanistan after facing defeat in Syria”,Khaama Press, December 10, 2017.
[xxv]“Beyond the Caliphate: Foreign Fighters and the Threat of Returnees”,The Soufan Center, 2017. Pg 12.
[xxvi]Winter, Charlie and Ingram, Haroro J, “Why ISIS is so good at branding its failures as successes”The Atlantic, September 19, 2017.
[xxvii]“Amaq reports first attack In Kashmir valley”,SITE Intelligence, November 18, 2017.
[xxviii]“Probe on into IS claim on Srinagar attack”,The Hindu, November 19, 2017.
[xxix]Ibid
[xxx]Staniland, Paul. “Whither ISIS? Insights from Insurgent Responses to Decline”,The Washington QuarterlyFall 2017. Pg 29.
[xxxi]Ibid
[xxxii]Ibid
[xxxiii]Lister, Charles. “Al Qaeda vs ISIS: Competing Jihadist Brands in the Middle East”,Middle East Institute Counterterrorism Series, 2017, Pg 4
[xxxiv]SIGARQuarterly Report to the US Congress(released October 30, 2017).
[xxxv]“Pakistan launches crackdown as ISIS shrine attack toll rises to 88”,The Guardian,February 17, 2017.
[xxxvi]“ISIS claims suicide bombing that killed at least 15 in Pakistan”,The New York Times, August 13, 2017.
[xxxvii]This excerpt is from a charge sheet accessed by the author. Further details are unavailable for public disclosure at the time of writing.
[xxxviii]“ISIS finds escape routes for the profits of war”,Financial Times, August 23, 2017.
[xxxix]Burke, Jason. “The Age of Selfie Jihad: How Evolving Media Technology Is Changing Terrorism”,CTC Westpoint, November 30, 2016.
Kabir Taneja is a Fellow with Strategic Studies programme. His research focuses on Indias relations with West Asia specifically looking at the domestic political dynamics ...
ORF © 2024Website Design and Development bySterco Digitex

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: Report: Islamic State 'Increasing Footprints' in Pakistan
The Islamic State (ISIS/ISIL/IS) wing in South Asia is intensifying its presence in Pakistan, particularly in areas along the country’s border with war-ravaged Afghanistan, the Pakistan Institute for Peace Studies (PIPS) think tank cautions in a new report.
PIPSreports:
Some new challenges are rearing their heads like the emergence of self-radicalized individuals and small terrorist cells, growing incidence of religious extremism including on educational campuses, persisting cross-border attacks by Pakistani militants relocated to Afghanistan, and increasing footprints of Daesh [ISIS] in parts of the country and convergence of its fighters in Afghanistan near Pakistani border.
These have made Pakistan’s countering terrorism efforts even more challenging, which are also evolving in line with the changing regional scenario especially the pressure mounted by the US administration.
U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration recently suspended an estimated$1 billionin security aid for Pakistan over Islamabad’s alleged refusal to stop harboring terrorist groups, namely the Afghan Taliban and its al-Qaeda-linked ally, the Haqqani Network.
In response, Pakistan has reportedlyannulledits alliance with the United States.
According to the U.S. military, themajorityof ISIS jihadists in South Asia are Pakistani — former members of the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) terrorist group.
ISIS-K is “actively recruitingfrom the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan,” reiterated American Gen. John Nicholson, the top commander of U.S. and NATO troops in Afghanistan, in November. “So as you’ll recall, when the Pakistan army … in 2014 pushed a lot of the TTP into Afghanistan — hundreds of thousands of TTP fighters and their families pushed into Afghanistan and it’s from these ranks that [ISIS] has been recruiting heavily.”
“Most of these [ISIS] fighters came from Pakistan,” stressed Nicholson, noting that about 1,000 ISIS jihadists are in Afghan provinces that border Pakistan, including “600 to 800” in Nangarhar, considered the group’s primary bastion in the region.
The Afghan Taliban and its Pakistani counterpart consider themselves two separate organizations.
TTPjihadists, their affiliates, and other terrorists with similar objectives, including ISIS members, carried out nearly 60 percent (213) of the total 370 reported attacks in Afghanistan last year, notes PIPS.
The Islamic State (IS) alone was allegedly responsible for the six deadliest attacks in Pakistan, which killed 153 people in 2017.
“IS has claimed responsibility for just six terrorist attacks in the country, but they were the most deadliest ones,” Muhammad Ismail Khan, the senior project manager at the PIPS think tank,toldDawn.
“There is a need to take the matter more seriously because there is a possibility thatforeign fighterswould come to Pakistan in near future as things are continuously changing in the Middle East,” he added.
As the so-called ISIS caliphate in Iraq and Syria continues tocollapseat the hands of the U.S.-led coalition and its allies, the ISIS branch in the Afghanistan-Pakistan region isgrowing, according to theUnited Nations.
Known as the Khorasan Province (ISIS-K), the Islamic State wing in South Asia officiallyestablishedits presence in Afghanistan in early 2015, less than a month after former U.S. President Barack Obamadeclaredthe American combat mission in Afghanistanoverat the end of 2014.
“Despite a 16% decline in terrorist attacks in 2017, Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan and its associated groups remained the most potent threat [in Pakistan]; they were followed bynationalist-insurgentgroups,” reveals thereport.
“Nationalist insurgent groups,” including militants seeking independence in the Balochistan region, were responsible for 138 attacks in Pakistan, which killed 140 people and injured another 265 people, notes the PIPS think tank.
Most of the 2017 casualties in Pakistan are civilians, but they also include security and law enforcement personnel as well as militants.
“The report noted that as compared to 2016, the attacks in the country from across Afghan, Indian and Iranian borders in 2017 witnessed a significant surge (131pc). A total of 171 cross-border attacks claimed 188 lives and left 348 people injured,” reportsDawn.
While Afghanistan and the United States accuse Islamabad of harboring the Afghan Taliban, PakistanclaimsKabul provides sanctuary to TTP.
Pleaselet us knowif you're having issues with commenting.




Copyright © 2024 Breitbart

Title: Afghanistan: At least 15 ISIS militants killed in Kunar province | Indiablooms - First Portal on Digital News Management
Kabul, Jan 8 (IBNS): At least 15 ISIS militants have been killed in Afghanistan's Kunar province on Sunday, local Tolo News reported.
In addition, 20 militants were injured.
The incident took place in the evening after the militants attacked a police check post in Chawki district of the province.
At least three policemen were killed and 13 others were injured during the clash, officials confirmed.
IBNS is not driven by any ism- not wokeism, not racism, not skewed secularism, not hyper right-wing or left liberal ideals, nor by any hardline religious beliefs or hyper nationalism. We want to serve you good old objective news, as they are. We do not judge or preach. We let people decide for themselves. We only try to present factual and well-sourced news.

Title: Afghanistan: At least 15 ISIS militants killed in Kunar province | Indiablooms - First Portal on Digital News Management
Kabul, Jan 8 (IBNS): At least 15 ISIS militants have been killed in Afghanistan's Kunar province on Sunday, local Tolo News reported.
In addition, 20 militants were injured.
The incident took place in the evening after the militants attacked a police check post in Chawki district of the province.
At least three policemen were killed and 13 others were injured during the clash, officials confirmed.
IBNS is not driven by any ism- not wokeism, not racism, not skewed secularism, not hyper right-wing or left liberal ideals, nor by any hardline religious beliefs or hyper nationalism. We want to serve you good old objective news, as they are. We do not judge or preach. We let people decide for themselves. We only try to present factual and well-sourced news.

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: Afghanistan and Failed States Sum Up Obama’s Legacy: Russian Federation and Tajikistan – Modern Tokyo Times
Tokyo News and International News
Afghanistan and Failed States Sum Up Obama’s Legacy: Russian Federation and Tajikistan
Ramazan Khalidov, Sawako Uchida, and Lee Jay Walker
Modern Tokyo Times

The former President Barack Obama of America talked like an effective leader but the reality is the opposite in the realm of international relations. Indeed, only Obama could destabilize Iraq for a second time based on being in the vanguard of seeking political change in Syria. Prior to this, the Obama administration, leading NATO nations, and Gulf powers, had all collectively helped to create a failed state in Libya. The end result being a paradise for al-Qaeda and ISIS (Islamic State – IS) – and a great asset for people smuggling gangs to overwhelm parts of Europe. Therefore, events from Afghanistan to Yemen sums up the abysmal Obama administration.
In Afghanistan, the nations of the Russian Federation and Tajikistan are alarmed by recent events. This isn’t surprising given Obama’s track record but still, the growing menace of the Taliban in Kunduz is worrying. Similarly, with more Sunni Islamist Takfiris from Central Asia fighting in Syria, then other nations throughout the region are worried by Gulf and NATO powers that have destabilized Syria and other parts of the world.
It must be remembered that the provinces of Badakhshan, Kunduz, and Tahor, all share a border with Tajikistan. Of course, in the past few years, many attacks have taken place before in this part of Afghanistan. However, the threat is now growing to a higher level in Kunduz province.
The international Sunni Takfiri dimension under the failed state reality of Obama (Libya, Mali, Syria, and Yemen) – and the re-destabilization of Afghanistan and Iraq under his administration – means that Central Asian nations are extremely worried. After all, growing numbers of Sunni Takfiris from Central Asia are joining various al-Qaeda linked groups and ISIS in several nations.
Umed Partov, The Jamestown Foundation, says,“Central Asian militant groups have already begun to demonstrate leadership in orchestrating terrorist attacks in the Middle East as well as in the current siege of Kunduz city. According to Davlat Vaziri, spokesperson of the Ministry of Defense of Afghanistan, the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) and the Tajikistan-based Ansarulloh are coordinating the fight waged in Kunduz against the ANSF. Foreign fighters from Africa, Pakistan, the Philippines, Bangladesh, China, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan have all been identified in Kunduz. Afghan forces regained some lost ground, but the Taliban is still in control of some areas (Ozodagon.com, October 7). Meanwhile, the press office of the National Security Unit of Afghanistan’s Badakhshan Province recently reported the arrest of four members of the IMU who were in possession of explosives and other weaponry (Ozodagon.com, October 5).”
Recent events in Kunduz highlight that the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) is increasingly struggling to crush the Taliban. This reality is worrying the Russian Federation and Tajikistan – and all Central Asian nations. On top of this, the terrain of vast areas between Afghanistan and Tajikistan is extremely difficult to patrol based on the geographic reality of high terrain.
If the ANSF continues to struggle and returning Sunni Takfiris flee from a fresh onslaught in Iraq, then more international fighters will enter the fray in Afghanistan. At the same time, other international terrorists will return to their respective native homes in Central Asia. Despite this, the angle of military hardware, terrorism, and Salafi indoctrination means that Afghanistan is the central fear for the Russian Federation and Tajikistan. In turn, all Central Asian nations and China are at a loss about the policies of the Obama administration that seems to be leaving chaos behind and bleak realities.
In 2015, the analyst Kasimshoh Iskandarov from Tajikistan said,“There are hundreds of Uzbek, Kyrgyz, Uighurs and Chechen fighters in Afghanistan,” says Tajik analyst Kasimshoh Iskandarov… The Central Asians aren’t just interested in fighting the Afghan government,” he says, adding that many wish to wage jihad in “Central Asia and perhaps even Russia.”
The numbers have increased in early 2017 and with many Sunni Takfiris fleeing the onslaught in Iraq then the omens look negative for the new administration under President Donald Trump. Overall, the legacy of Obama is one of spreading chaos to new failed states (Libya, Mali, Syria, and Yemen) and the re-destabilization of Afghanistan and Iraq. Therefore, the Russian Federation and Tajikistan are increasingly nervous by current events in Kunduz and in other areas of Afghanistan.
https://jamestown.org/program/security-situation-along-afghan-tajik-border-alarms-regional-powers/
http://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-34659530

Modern Tokyo News is part of the Modern Tokyo Times group
DONATIONS to SUPPORT MODERN TOKYO TIMES – please pay PayPal and DONATE tosawakoart@gmail.com
http://moderntokyotimes.comModern Tokyo Times – International News and Japan News
http://sawandjay.comModern Tokyo Times – Fashion
https://moderntokyonews.comModern Tokyo News – Tokyo News and International News
http://global-security-news.comGlobal Security News – Geopolitics and Terrorism
PLEASE JOIN ON TWITTER
https://twitter.com/MTT_NewsModern Tokyo Times
PLEASE JOIN ON FACEBOOK
https://www.facebook.com/moderntokyotimes
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Name*
Email*
Website


Title: Afghanistan and Failed States Sum Up Obama’s Legacy: Russian Federation and Tajikistan – Modern Tokyo Times
Tokyo News and International News
Afghanistan and Failed States Sum Up Obama’s Legacy: Russian Federation and Tajikistan
Ramazan Khalidov, Sawako Uchida, and Lee Jay Walker
Modern Tokyo Times

The former President Barack Obama of America talked like an effective leader but the reality is the opposite in the realm of international relations. Indeed, only Obama could destabilize Iraq for a second time based on being in the vanguard of seeking political change in Syria. Prior to this, the Obama administration, leading NATO nations, and Gulf powers, had all collectively helped to create a failed state in Libya. The end result being a paradise for al-Qaeda and ISIS (Islamic State – IS) – and a great asset for people smuggling gangs to overwhelm parts of Europe. Therefore, events from Afghanistan to Yemen sums up the abysmal Obama administration.
In Afghanistan, the nations of the Russian Federation and Tajikistan are alarmed by recent events. This isn’t surprising given Obama’s track record but still, the growing menace of the Taliban in Kunduz is worrying. Similarly, with more Sunni Islamist Takfiris from Central Asia fighting in Syria, then other nations throughout the region are worried by Gulf and NATO powers that have destabilized Syria and other parts of the world.
It must be remembered that the provinces of Badakhshan, Kunduz, and Tahor, all share a border with Tajikistan. Of course, in the past few years, many attacks have taken place before in this part of Afghanistan. However, the threat is now growing to a higher level in Kunduz province.
The international Sunni Takfiri dimension under the failed state reality of Obama (Libya, Mali, Syria, and Yemen) – and the re-destabilization of Afghanistan and Iraq under his administration – means that Central Asian nations are extremely worried. After all, growing numbers of Sunni Takfiris from Central Asia are joining various al-Qaeda linked groups and ISIS in several nations.
Umed Partov, The Jamestown Foundation, says,“Central Asian militant groups have already begun to demonstrate leadership in orchestrating terrorist attacks in the Middle East as well as in the current siege of Kunduz city. According to Davlat Vaziri, spokesperson of the Ministry of Defense of Afghanistan, the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) and the Tajikistan-based Ansarulloh are coordinating the fight waged in Kunduz against the ANSF. Foreign fighters from Africa, Pakistan, the Philippines, Bangladesh, China, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan have all been identified in Kunduz. Afghan forces regained some lost ground, but the Taliban is still in control of some areas (Ozodagon.com, October 7). Meanwhile, the press office of the National Security Unit of Afghanistan’s Badakhshan Province recently reported the arrest of four members of the IMU who were in possession of explosives and other weaponry (Ozodagon.com, October 5).”
Recent events in Kunduz highlight that the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) is increasingly struggling to crush the Taliban. This reality is worrying the Russian Federation and Tajikistan – and all Central Asian nations. On top of this, the terrain of vast areas between Afghanistan and Tajikistan is extremely difficult to patrol based on the geographic reality of high terrain.
If the ANSF continues to struggle and returning Sunni Takfiris flee from a fresh onslaught in Iraq, then more international fighters will enter the fray in Afghanistan. At the same time, other international terrorists will return to their respective native homes in Central Asia. Despite this, the angle of military hardware, terrorism, and Salafi indoctrination means that Afghanistan is the central fear for the Russian Federation and Tajikistan. In turn, all Central Asian nations and China are at a loss about the policies of the Obama administration that seems to be leaving chaos behind and bleak realities.
In 2015, the analyst Kasimshoh Iskandarov from Tajikistan said,“There are hundreds of Uzbek, Kyrgyz, Uighurs and Chechen fighters in Afghanistan,” says Tajik analyst Kasimshoh Iskandarov… The Central Asians aren’t just interested in fighting the Afghan government,” he says, adding that many wish to wage jihad in “Central Asia and perhaps even Russia.”
The numbers have increased in early 2017 and with many Sunni Takfiris fleeing the onslaught in Iraq then the omens look negative for the new administration under President Donald Trump. Overall, the legacy of Obama is one of spreading chaos to new failed states (Libya, Mali, Syria, and Yemen) and the re-destabilization of Afghanistan and Iraq. Therefore, the Russian Federation and Tajikistan are increasingly nervous by current events in Kunduz and in other areas of Afghanistan.
https://jamestown.org/program/security-situation-along-afghan-tajik-border-alarms-regional-powers/
http://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-34659530

Modern Tokyo News is part of the Modern Tokyo Times group
DONATIONS to SUPPORT MODERN TOKYO TIMES – please pay PayPal and DONATE tosawakoart@gmail.com
http://moderntokyotimes.comModern Tokyo Times – International News and Japan News
http://sawandjay.comModern Tokyo Times – Fashion
https://moderntokyonews.comModern Tokyo News – Tokyo News and International News
http://global-security-news.comGlobal Security News – Geopolitics and Terrorism
PLEASE JOIN ON TWITTER
https://twitter.com/MTT_NewsModern Tokyo Times
PLEASE JOIN ON FACEBOOK
https://www.facebook.com/moderntokyotimes
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Name*
Email*
Website


Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:31Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title:  China's Emergence as a Superpower (2015 onwards) - Page 4
View Tag Cloud
Forum Rules

Title: Syrian War Daily – 3rd of January 2018 | Syrian War Daily
Hello and welcome to the 295th installment of theSWD.
Military events/news are listed below by the governorates:

Aleppo:
Left over Islamic State’s improvised explosive device killed one and wounded three children close to Al-Rai roundabout in the city of Al-Bab. The wounded individuals were transferred to Turkish hospitals for treatment.
Idlib:
Syrian Arab Army captured Rajm al-Mushraf, Mushrifat Khanazir, and Umm Sahrij from the rebel factions in the southern Idlib.

Approximate situation in the southern Idlib – northern Hama region. HD version of this map can be foundhere. Source:Qasioun News Agency
Damascus:
Syrian Arab Army’s artillery shelled Arbeen and Ain Terma, while the Russian Air Force targeted Harasta, Arbeen, and Madyara in the East Ghouta. One civilian was reportedly killed and five wounded by the shelling and air raids over Arbeen. Similarly, a civilian was reportedly killed and 10 wounded by the air raids over Harasta.
Ahrar al-Sham-led offensive in Harasta released avideo statementfor the Syrian Republican Guard and Syrian Arab Army’s elements currently besieged in the ‘Army Armored Vehicle Base’ and Technical Institute in Harasta. The video statement offered besieged elements the last chance to surrender and be exchanged in the future for the prisoners held by the Syrian Arab Army. If the besieged elements refused the offer, the video statement threatened to kill all of them. The video statement was also read by an imam in a mosque in Harasta.
Two Hayat Tahrir al-Sham’s figures, Abu Muhammad bin Laden and Abu Omar were reportedly killed by the Syrian Arab Army in Harasta. Similarly, Ahrar al-Sham killed Syrian Republican Guard’s commander of the 402nd Battalion, Brigadier General Ibrahim Yunus in Harasta.
Jaysh al-Islam recaptured four points in and around Al-Nashabiyah, which Syrian Arab Army captured on the 30th of December. Jaysh al-Islam’s spokesman Hamza Birqdar stated that Jaysh al-Islam repelled Syrian Arab Army’s attacks on Hazrama, Al-Zariqiyah, Al-Nashabiyah, Al-Bilaliyah and Beit Naim fronts. According to Birqdar, 40 Syrian Arab Army’s elements were killed and two T-72 tanks destroyed during the clashes which lasted for four days.
Islamic State’s sniper killed an element of the Syrian Arab Army in Al-Tadamon neighborhood in the southern Damascus, according to the Amaq Agency.
Quneitra:
Rebel “Daraa Martyrs Documentation Office” reported death of a Hayat Tahrir al-Sham’s fighter, due to wounds sustained in clashes with the Syrian Arab Army around Hader.
Baghdad:
Iraqi Security Forces conducted operations in Al-Halabsa and Al-Khairat areas, west of Baghdad. Security Forces found and dismantled several improvised explosive devices.
Iraqi Security Forces arrested two elements of a radical sleeper cell in Abu Ghraib area, west of Baghdad.
Faryab Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (Taliban) launched attacks on Afghan National Security Forces’ positions in Mala Aarefi and Kolani areas of Kohistan district. One element of theANSFwas killed and five wounded in the clashes, while one element of theIEAwas killed and another wounded.
Balkh Province:
Afghan National Security Forces arrested five individuals suspected of belonging to the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan in Chimtal district.
Kunduz Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan ambushed Afghan National Security Forces’ convoy in the province, destroying a tank and another vehicle with RPGs. TwoANSF‘s elements were also killed in the ambush.
Kabul Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s improvised explosive device destroyed Afghan National Army’s vehicle in the city of Kabul, killing five soldiers.
Laghman Province:
Afghan National Security Forces killed three elements of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, including two commanders in the province. Furthermore, five individuals suspected of belonging to the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan were arrested.
Nangarhar Province:
Afghan National Security Forces conducted large-scale operations against the Islamic State in Achin district, killing 23 fighters of the group and destroying a vehicle, as well as a weapons depot.
Six elements of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan were killed by the Afghan National Security Forces in Bati Kot district. One of the killedIEAelements was identified as Khan Muhammad Zakhami, localIEAcommander.
Logar Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan targeted Afghan National Army’s checkpoint in the city of Pol-e Alam, capital of Logar Province, killing two soldiers. Similarly, two elements of the Afghan National Army were killed in the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s ambush in the city of Pol-e Alam.
Paktia Province:
Two elements of the Afghan Local Police were killed in the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s ambush in Zurmat district.
Khost Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s improvised explosive device destroyed Afghan National Army’s tank in Nadir Shah Kot district.
Ghazni Province:
Afghan National Security Forces arrested a wounded Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s fighter in Andar district.
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan clashed with the Afghan National Security Forces in Shalgar district. The clashes reportedly resulted in destruction of twoANSF‘s tanks and killing of six elements.
Paktika Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan ambushed elements of the Afghan National Police in Janikhel district, killing two policemen. Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan seized two assault rifles from the killed elements.
Farah Province:
Afghan National Security Forces reportedly withdrew from a checkpoint in Mala Aman Kala Ghondi area of Pusht Rod district. Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan claimed that the withdrawal occurred due to the fear of the group’s attack.
Nimruz Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s improvised explosive device destroyed Afghan National Army’s armored personnel carrier in Kandaharyano area of Delaram district. Similarly, anotherIEAimprovised explosive device destroyed Afghan National Army’s pickup in the same area.
Helmand Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan stated that Afghan National Security Forces’ convoy retreated from Marjah district. The convoy reportedly arrived 11 days ago from Lashkar Gah and Nad Ali to Marjah in order to assist in the operations. According to theIEA, the convoy retreated due to heavy loses, as the group claimed thatIEAattacks, sniper attacks and improvised explosive devices destroyed 11 armored personnel carriers and a truck, as well as wounded 33 and killed 72 elements ofANSF, including five commanders; Asad Popal, Esmatullah Barakzaiy, Abdul Rehman, Bahadur Khan and another commander of the 4th Corps.IEAalso stated their own casualties from the clashes, which are 16 killed and 13 wounded elements.
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan reportedly ambushed the aforementioned retreating Afghan National Security Forces’ convoy in Marjeh district, destroying two vehicles and killing and wounding six elements.
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s sniper killed two elements of the Afghan National Security Forces in Safar area of Garmsir district.
Kandahar Province:
Afghan National Security Forces destroyed Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s vehicle in Shah Wali Kot district.
CJTF-OIRannounced a change in their publishing policy. Now two strikes reports will be published each week, on Mondays and Fridays.

Egypt:
Islamic State’s improvised explosive device reportedly killed several elements of the Egyptian Army, including a captain, and wounded additional number of elements in Sabika area, western Al-Arish.
Intellectual credited property used may vary from an edition to edition.
Feel free to voice your opinion in the comments section below, constructive criticism is welcomed.
For those of you interested, you can follow us on an official Twitter account@SyrianWarDaily, or me personally on my biased twitter@joskobaricwhere I occasionally tweet some things.

Δ
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address:
Subscribe

Title:  China's Emergence as a Superpower (2015 onwards) - Page 4
View Tag Cloud
Forum Rules

Title:  China's Emergence as a Superpower (2015 onwards) - Page 4
View Tag Cloud
Forum Rules

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: The Haqqani network: one of the world's most lethal terror groups - The Jerusalem Post 
Stay updated with the latest news!
Subscribe to The Jerusalem Post Newsletter

Title: Many Americans have never heard of the Haqqani network, one of the world’s most lethal terror groups – San Diego Union-Tribune
e-Edition
Get the latest news in your inbox!

Get the latest news in your inbox!
e-Edition
Trending:
When the Trump administration announced this week it was suspending military aid to Pakistan until the country takes more aggressive action against terrorist organizations that have targeted Americans, one of the groups it named was the Haqqani network.Compared to other extremist groups, it is unfamiliar to many people in the U.S.So who is Haqqani? What is the network? And what are its links to Pakistan?Jalaluddin Haqqani was an Afghan warlord and a leader of the insurgency against Soviet forces in Afghanistan in the 1980s, when he formed his Sunni Islamist militant organization, which the U.S. government did not designate as a foreign terrorist organization until 2012.Today the group is based primarily in the North Waziristan region of Pakistan, from which it conducts cross-border operations into eastern Afghanistan and Kabul, according to acounter-terrorism guidepublished by the U.S. government’sNational Counterterrorism Center.“It is by far the most lethal group, not just inside Afghanistan, but in South Asia in general,” saidAhmad Majidyar, a fellow at the Middle East Institute and an expert on Afghanistan-Pakistan security issues. “The group is more like a criminal mafia group rather than an insurgent group.”One of its major goals is to reassert the Taliban’s control in Afghanistan and reestablish the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, experts said.Haqqani aligned himself with the Taliban in the mid-1990s and served as its minister of tribal affairs until it was dislodged from power by the U.S. invasion in 2001. He was also a mentor to Al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, according to the U.S. counter-terrorism center.Media reports in 2015 that Haqqani had died have never been confirmed. But at some point, he  handed leadership of the network to his son Sirajuddin, who in 2015 was named as a deputy of the Taliban leadership council.Experts have mixed opinions about the extent of the network’s relationship to the Taliban.“The group acts completely independently from the Taliban leadership and over the past decade it has carried out its military operations mostly in eastern Afghanistan, quite independently,” Majidyar said.ButMarvin G. Weinbaum, professor emeritus of political science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and a former analyst for Pakistan and Afghanistan in the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Intelligence and Research, said: “There is very little distance between the Haqqani network and the Taliban. I tend to say they are partnered groups.”AndBill Roggio, a senior fellow at theFoundation for Defense of Democraciesand editor of its Long War Journal, said it was “a complete misnomer to de-link the Haqqani network from the Taliban.”“It’s like saying the Marines aren’t part of the U.S. military,” he said. “They’re a faction. They’re a branch of the Taliban … but they are the Taliban.”The Haqqani network’s high-profile attacks target “anyone who they deem to be in their way of reestablishing the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan and bringing the Taliban back to power,” Roggio said. That includes Afghan security forces, government buildings, civilians, and Western forces and interests, including the U.S. embassy and military bases.Since the 2013 death of Mullah Omar, the former supreme commander and spiritual leader of the Taliban, the younger Haqqani has effectively risen to become “one of the major military figures for both movements,” Weinbaum said.The group is known to maintain close ties to Al Qaeda, the Pakistani Taliban and to the Pakistani military intelligence services, experts said.It is “well respected amongst the jihadist circles,” Roggio said. “Sirajuddin Haqqani has been used to solve disputes between various factions.”He said that respect comes in large part from the group’s support for global jihad — the armed conflict to expand the Islamic world — by providing shelter, training camps and financing in Afghanistan and Pakistan.Experts said it’s impossible to know the size of the group, but some estimates put its membership at upward of 10,000 people,with many recruits coming from the northern Pakistan region where the group is based.The network is believed to be financed by some Gulf states, including Saudi Arabia, and by the Pakistani establishment. The elder Haqqani reportedly speaks fluent Arabic and is well connected in the Arab Gulf region. One of his two wives is reportedly from the United Arab Emirates. Money generated through the network’s illicit activities, including trafficking in drugs and minerals, also helps fund the group, experts said.To that end, it aims to create ungovernable areas in eastern Afghanistan where it can safely run its criminal enterprises, Majidyar said.But its trademark is the sophistication of its assaults. The groups is known to have effective tactical fighters, expertise in car bombs and suicide attacks, and influence in recruiting foreign jihadists, experts said.“What has made the Haqqani network stand out and also become very much famous is its lethality and also its ability to conduct … attacks in the most secure and most strategic locations across Afghanistan, but most importantly in the capital, Kabul,” Majidyar said.Notable attacks in recent years include the June 2011 assault on the Kabul Intercontinental Hotel and suicide bombings in 2008 and 2009 against the Indian Embassy in Kabul, according to the counter-terrorism center.The agency said the Haqqani network also participated in a September 2011 “day-long assault against major targets in Kabul, including the U.S. Embassy, International Security Assistance Force headquarters, the Afghan presidential palace, and the Afghan National Directorate of Security headquarters.”ann.simmons@latimes.comFor more on global development news, see ourGlobal Development Watch page, and follow me@AMSimmons1on Twitter
Compared to other extremist groups, it is unfamiliar to many people in the U.S.
So who is Haqqani? What is the network? And what are its links to Pakistan?
Jalaluddin Haqqani was an Afghan warlord and a leader of the insurgency against Soviet forces in Afghanistan in the 1980s, when he formed his Sunni Islamist militant organization, which the U.S. government did not designate as a foreign terrorist organization until 2012.
Today the group is based primarily in the North Waziristan region of Pakistan, from which it conducts cross-border operations into eastern Afghanistan and Kabul, according to acounter-terrorism guidepublished by the U.S. government’sNational Counterterrorism Center.
“It is by far the most lethal group, not just inside Afghanistan, but in South Asia in general,” saidAhmad Majidyar, a fellow at the Middle East Institute and an expert on Afghanistan-Pakistan security issues. “The group is more like a criminal mafia group rather than an insurgent group.”
One of its major goals is to reassert the Taliban’s control in Afghanistan and reestablish the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, experts said.
Haqqani aligned himself with the Taliban in the mid-1990s and served as its minister of tribal affairs until it was dislodged from power by the U.S. invasion in 2001. He was also a mentor to Al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden, according to the U.S. counter-terrorism center.
Media reports in 2015 that Haqqani had died have never been confirmed. But at some point, he  handed leadership of the network to his son Sirajuddin, who in 2015 was named as a deputy of the Taliban leadership council.
Experts have mixed opinions about the extent of the network’s relationship to the Taliban.
“The group acts completely independently from the Taliban leadership and over the past decade it has carried out its military operations mostly in eastern Afghanistan, quite independently,” Majidyar said.
ButMarvin G. Weinbaum, professor emeritus of political science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and a former analyst for Pakistan and Afghanistan in the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Intelligence and Research, said: “There is very little distance between the Haqqani network and the Taliban. I tend to say they are partnered groups.”
AndBill Roggio, a senior fellow at theFoundation for Defense of Democraciesand editor of its Long War Journal, said it was “a complete misnomer to de-link the Haqqani network from the Taliban.”
“It’s like saying the Marines aren’t part of the U.S. military,” he said. “They’re a faction. They’re a branch of the Taliban … but they are the Taliban.”
The Haqqani network’s high-profile attacks target “anyone who they deem to be in their way of reestablishing the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan and bringing the Taliban back to power,” Roggio said. That includes Afghan security forces, government buildings, civilians, and Western forces and interests, including the U.S. embassy and military bases.
Since the 2013 death of Mullah Omar, the former supreme commander and spiritual leader of the Taliban, the younger Haqqani has effectively risen to become “one of the major military figures for both movements,” Weinbaum said.
The group is known to maintain close ties to Al Qaeda, the Pakistani Taliban and to the Pakistani military intelligence services, experts said.
It is “well respected amongst the jihadist circles,” Roggio said. “Sirajuddin Haqqani has been used to solve disputes between various factions.”
He said that respect comes in large part from the group’s support for global jihad — the armed conflict to expand the Islamic world — by providing shelter, training camps and financing in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Experts said it’s impossible to know the size of the group, but some estimates put its membership at upward of 10,000 people,with many recruits coming from the northern Pakistan region where the group is based.
The network is believed to be financed by some Gulf states, including Saudi Arabia, and by the Pakistani establishment. The elder Haqqani reportedly speaks fluent Arabic and is well connected in the Arab Gulf region. One of his two wives is reportedly from the United Arab Emirates. Money generated through the network’s illicit activities, including trafficking in drugs and minerals, also helps fund the group, experts said.
To that end, it aims to create ungovernable areas in eastern Afghanistan where it can safely run its criminal enterprises, Majidyar said.
But its trademark is the sophistication of its assaults. The groups is known to have effective tactical fighters, expertise in car bombs and suicide attacks, and influence in recruiting foreign jihadists, experts said.
“What has made the Haqqani network stand out and also become very much famous is its lethality and also its ability to conduct … attacks in the most secure and most strategic locations across Afghanistan, but most importantly in the capital, Kabul,” Majidyar said.
Notable attacks in recent years include the June 2011 assault on the Kabul Intercontinental Hotel and suicide bombings in 2008 and 2009 against the Indian Embassy in Kabul, according to the counter-terrorism center.
The agency said the Haqqani network also participated in a September 2011 “day-long assault against major targets in Kabul, including the U.S. Embassy, International Security Assistance Force headquarters, the Afghan presidential palace, and the Afghan National Directorate of Security headquarters.”
ann.simmons@latimes.com
For more on global development news, see ourGlobal Development Watch page, and follow me@AMSimmons1on Twitter
Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group