Title: Fears Erupt Over Taliban's Plans To Capture The Nesi District of Afghanistan
Copyright ©2021. The EurAsian Times. All rights reserved

Title: Afghan national security adviser quits. Resignations of 3 other officials rejected | CNN
Afghan President Ashraf Ghani accepted the resignation of his national security adviser but refused the resignations of three other security officials as the country battles the Taliban.
“Today the ministers of defense, interior affairs and the director of the national directorate of security presented their resignations to the president. The President did not accept their resignations and asked them to continue in their jobs and gave them necessary guidance for the improvement of security situation,” the President’s office tweeted Sunday.
However, Ghani accepted National Security Adviser Mohammad Hanif Atmar’s resignation, replacing him with the nation’s ambassador to the US, Hamdullah Mohib, the president’s spokesman, Haroon Chakhansuri said.
Related articleTaliban to travel to Russia for Afghanistan talks
Afghanistan’s TOLO News channelquoted Atmar as saying he resigned over “serious differences over policies and approaches at the top level of government.”
Ghani said accepting Atmar’s resignation had been “difficult” but that it was “for the benefit of the country,” TOLO reported. Mohib, 35, took over as national security adviser Sunday morning.
In May, Mohib wrote an opinion article for CNNafter a terror attack on a cricket match in his hometown of Jalalabad that had been organized to celebrate peace and unity during Ramadan. In the article, he described his hopes for a peace that would transcend political and ethnic divisions, saying: “My generation envisions a different Afghanistan.”
For now, violence continues in Afghanistan, with astring of deadly attacks this month.
On August 10, theTaliban launched a brazen attackon the strategic city of Ghazni, south of the capital Kabul, seizing key buildings and trading fire with security forces.
Related articleAmerica's longest war takes worrying new turn
At least 150 people were killed and 40 injured, the majority of them Afghan security forces.
The Taliban had last attacked a major urban center in 2015 andCNN’s Nick Paton Walsh described the assault on Ghaznias the militant group’s “most serious challenge to the authority of Afghanistan’s government in three years.”
“The Afghan government has said it wants to control the territory in which 80% of the population lives by the end of 2019,” Paton Walsh wrote. “It currentlycontrols 65%, up from 64% this time last year.”
On August 14,39 soldiers died in Baghlan provincewhen the Taliban overran their base. And 17 troops were also killed when their base in Faryab was also overrun.
The following day,at least 34 people were killed in a suicide attacktargeting an education center in Kabul. A Taliban spokesman denied responsibility for that attack.
On August 19, Ghanioffered a month-long ceasefire with the Taliban.
Related videoGhani: Taliban violence an indication of weakness
The two sides had abrief truce in Juneand Ghani said then that the government was looking to engage in peace talks with the Taliban and hoped to convert it to a political group.
The Taliban have been waging a bitter fight in Afghanistan, with the ultimate goal of ruling the country and imposing its strict interpretation of Islamic law. The group controlled Afghanistan until its 2001 ouster by the US-led coalition that invaded following the 9/11 attacks.
In recent years, a resurgent Taliban have taken control of significant swaths of the country and raised questions about the Afghan government’s ability to protect the country.
The Taliban grew out of the US and Saudi-backed mujahideen movement  that fought a bloody guerrilla war against the Soviet Union after that country invaded and occupied Afghanistan in 1979.
The Taliban are formally banned in Russia, but in recent months Moscow has stepped up contact with the group.Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said last Tuesdaythat representatives of the Taliban would take part in talks in Moscow next month on the future of Afghanistan.
© 2024 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.

Title: 
            Tajik or Russian plane has bombed an Afghan border area in Takhar province, says Afghan official
          
SG
Eight Taliban insurgents were killed and six others were wounded
COMMENTS
Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive.
For more information, please see ourComments FAQ
Nathan Narra, known for his ‘NateNation’ YouTube channel, tragically died in a car accident in Michigan.
A 2020 tweet from Kamala Harris thanking Sean "Diddy" Combs for hosting a campaign event resurfaced.
A resurfaced video shows Kamala Harris at a 2018 parade with disgraced actor Jussie Smollett protesting deportation.
Samuel L. Jackson opened up about his 44-year marriage to LaTanya Richardson Jackson
Iran's Pezeshkian calls out Israel for provoking regional war, warns of 'irreversible' consequences
US deploys additional troops to Middle East amid rising tensions, Pentagon confirms
Iranian FM says open to nuclear talks at UN General Assembly
Mpox: India's Kerala confirms South Asia’s first case of Clade 1b
VP Kamala Harris opts out of Al Smith gala to focus on campaign in key states
Mayor of Muslim-majority US city endorses Donald Trump for 2024 election
Bharat and the idea of India
Certainty of uncertainty and uncertainty of certainty
Time to close the chapter of 1971 tragedy
Subverting justice
Chief Justice Syed Mansoor Ali Shah
Need for a new strategy and positive approach on Bangladesh
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
redistributed or derived from. Unless otherwise stated, all content is
copyrighted © 2024 The Express Tribune.

Title: Afghan president rejects resignations – DW – 08/26/2018
Afghan President Ashraf Ghani has turned down the resignations of three senior security officials and ordered them to find ways to halt militant attacks. The trio had offered to quit over rising violence in the country.
President Ashraf Ghani on Sunday urged Interior Minister Wais Ahmad Barmak, Defense Minister Tareq Shah Bahrami, and intelligence chief Masoum Stanekzai to stay in their posts, the Afghan government said.
The three officials submitted resignation letters on Saturday, citing policy differences and a spate of deadly attacks.
"President Ghani did not approve their resignations... and gave them the necessary instructions to improve the security situation," a statement from the presidential palace said.
The offers to step down followed the resignation of Ghani's national security adviser and close ally, Hanif Atmar, on Friday. Atmar, one of the country's most powerful politicians, has been replaced by former ambassador to the US Hamdullah Mohib.
Read more:Kabul bombing: Afghanistan and the West 'share a common threat'
Atmar has been a mainstay in Afghan politics since the late 1980s, when he began his security career under the Soviet Union-backed government. He served as interior minister under former President Hamid Karzai and had been the country's top security official under Ghani since 2014.
Afghan local TV station Tolo News reported Saturday that his resignation was a result of his disagreements with the government on issues such as national unity, peace and security, as well as regional and international relations.
Read more:Why are Kabul and Washington not participating in Moscow-led Taliban talks?
Slew of resignations
The security situation in Afghanistan has rapidly deteriorated over the past few months. A number of recent deadly attacks by the Taliban and suspected "Islamic State" militants, including a rocket attack on the presidential palace in Kabul, have shaken the nation.
On Saturday, at least two people were killed and four others wounded when a suicide bomber attacked the office of the Election Commission in eastern Nangarhar province. Afghanistan is set to hold parliamentary elections on October 20, which has elevated the risk of attacks throughout the country.
nm, jcg/aw (Reuters, AFP, dpa)
Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.

Title: Afghanistan: Are Terrorists Gaining Ground? – Analysis – Eurasia Review
A Journal of Analysis and News

Taliban. Photo Credit: Tasnim News Agency.
BySAAG
By R.M. Panda
The situation in Afghanistan is confusing with the interference of all major powers who pursue their own agenda and their strategic interests. The beleaguered Afghan Government that has been legitimately elected has been fighting on all fronts and doing its best.
The ground situation in Afghanistan has dramatically changed with the ISIS entering the fray on the one hand and with terrorists sponsored from other outfits also joining in. Besides the Taliban that is fighting with support from across the border, the entry of other Pakistani terrorist organizations like the Lashkar-e-Taiba has resulted in a dangerous situation.
In the last one month, there have been very many serious incidents by various actors that gives the impression that the Government in power is not in control in most of the areas inside Afghanistan.
On August 10, 2018, about 1000 Taliban militants launched a coordinated attack from four sides on the provincial capital of Ghazni. The Security forces taken by surprise and unable to meet the onslaught confined themselves in protecting the main Government Head Quarters and letting the attackers to occupy other areas that were weakly held. After five days (15th August) with the air support of US and further reinforceents, the Afghan Forces started pushing back the attackers. The Afghan Defense Minister Tariq Shah Bahrami said that at least 194 militants have been killed including 12 of their senior commanders and another 147 other militants have sustained injuries. 20 civilians were also killed during the clashes.
A Security source confirmed that 100 police officers were also killed. The Special Representativeof the UN Secretary General in Afghanistan Tadamichi Yamamoto said that theTaliban attack on Ghazni city has caused terrible sufferings to the civilians causing casualties at around a range from 110 to 150. The Defense minister Bahrami also alleged that the foreign militants, including Pakistanis, Chechens and Arabsupported Taliban were involved in the Ghazni attack.
What is to be noted here is that the incident was not of Taliban alone but that of a combined force of other militants and terrorists of other outfits commonly planned and executed together. This is a dangerous situation.
The leader of the Awami National Party of Pakistan Afrasiab Khattak, a former Pakistani senator said, “Pak government needs to explain reports about the deadbodies of Pakistanis coming in from the war in Ghazni and Pak fighters getting arrested. Is it the repetition of the Jalalabad fiasco in 1989? Pak Afghan Policy is an unmitigated disaster.?CHANGE IT”, he said. There has been no official denial on the involvement of Pak terrorists.
Some Pakistani groups have posted photos ofthe dead bodies and have invited people to attend funeral ceremonies of their members on social media. These groups have proudly stated that “those men were killed there.” The bodies of slain Pakistani nationals have been transported to Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Punjab, and Balochistan provinces. Many of the Pakistani terrorists killed in the battle are reported to belong to Mullah Nazir, a Pro Pakistan militant group.
There are some reports that Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists are also fighting in Afghanistan. The Chief of Army Staff of Pakistan.General Qamar Javed Bajwa in a face-saving statement said that “However, there are scores of Pakistanis working in Afghanistan in connection with various businesses/ labour who periodically fell victim to terrorism acts alongside their Afghan brothers inside Afghanistan. Gen. Bajwa also added “Moreover, differentfactions of TTP, hiding in many sanctuaries inside Afghanistan under Afghan identities on becoming injured/ dead are transported into Pakistan for medical help. His statement lacked credibility and Pakistan should explain to the World why Pakistanis are getting increasingly involved in terrorist attacks in neighbouring countries.
There have been many credible reports of the Taliban fighters and dedicated Taliban intelligence personnel continuing to receive training in safe havens in Pakistan,which offer them key counter-intelligence and security advantages. Beside having access to military trainers and training materials, they continue to receive valuable guidance on counter-intelligence and counter-surveillance procedures from the ISI. The attack on Ghazni could not have been mounted without support from Pakistan’s state and non-state actors since the operational planning and execution involved in the attack reflect sound military preparations, impressive firepower, striking counter-intelligence awareness and remarkable security consciousness.
While Ghazni conflict which was found to be a combined terrorist assault, was going on, the Taliban fighters had overrun an Afghan National Army operations base in northern Afghanistan. Defense Ministry spokesperson Ghafor Ahmad Jawed said Taliban fighters gained control of the base in the Ghormach district of the northern province of Faryab late on August 13. Jawed said 17 Afghan soldiers were killed and at least 19 wounded with some captured and some fled to nearby hills. An army spokesperson, Mohammad Hanif Rezaee, said 100 Afghan soldiers were at the base, known as Camp Chinaya, when the Taliban began their assault against it on August 12. Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid said 57 Afghan soldiers surrendered to the Taliban and another 17 were captured. He said Taliban fighters seized eight military Humvees — four-wheeled armored vehicles that had been provided to the Afghan forces by the United States.
On 15th of August, there was a suicide blast inside an education centre in Kabulcity killing 34 and injuring 56 students. The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria Khurasan (ISIS-K) has claimed responsibility for the deadly attack.
A recent media report gave an assessment that the Taliban controls nearly 50% area of Afghanistan. In an exclusive interview to BBC Gen John Nicholson, said Russia is supporting and even supplying arms to the Taliban. According to Afghan and American high ranking officials, there is evidence to show that Iran is providing Taliban insurgents with weapons, money, and training. One may recall that the former leader of the Taliban, Mullah Akhtar Mansoor, was killed while returning from Iran to Quetta, Pakistan, when a U.S. drone targeted him. Iran claims that the sole purpose of their contacts with the Taliban is to fight their shared enemy: the Islamic State (IS) in Afghanistan. Actually Iran’s grouse is against US presence in Afghanistan and it serves their strategic interest to weaken US presence in their neighbourhood.
What is of interest is that China is also wooing Taliban. China is Afghanistan’s biggest investor and their interest is in safeguarding and pursuing their mining and other economic projects in Afghanistan. It is known that the Taliban delegations have visited China many times. For China nothing serves better than an Afghanistan developing strategic and economic relationship just like Pakistan.
Recently a Taliban political figure Sayed Akbar Agha said Taliban would attend the meeting in Moscow on 4 September next month to discuss about developments in Afghanistan. The Russians as seen now are trying to get close to Taliban in line with the initiative of China. Russia has invited twelve nations including US and Afghanistan for international talks which indicates Moscow is about to take a more prominent and active role in Afghanistan. The Afghan government had rejected this peace talk offer by Russia on the ground that any peace talk on Afghanistan should be carried out in Afghanistan and sponsored by the Afghan government. TheUS also declined to attend the talks.
There are enough credible reports to show that Pakistan is taking a leading role in training, Planning, Intelligence andmedical facilities in support of Taliban. It looks that Pakistan’s objectives are to dominate Afghanistan with a regime friendly to them. In this, it is actively supported by China and this is understandable. The entry of Iran and even Russia in this strategic gamble is not however understandable. Just to spite US should Iran accept a Pakistan dominated regime next door? Analysts point out that specifically, Pakistan’s objectives appear to be
1. A pro Pakistan government in Kabul.
2. To reduce Indian influence of India if it cannot be eliminated
3. Pakistan’s own Economic interests will be best served.
4. The Durand Line dispute
5. To deal better with Secessionist movement of Balochistan
6. The issue of ‘Pashtunistan’
The Taliban in its bid to get more legitimacy in international arena and to achieve a strong negotiating position in the talks has been doing bilateral and multilateral talks with many countries. Though they do not seem to believe in talks when they are winning, they are still engaged in peace talks with US, Iran, China, Pakistan, Russia and even Indonesia!
On the other hand, trilateral talks among Pakistan, Russia and China are going on separately. It is clear by now that both Russia which is seen to be taking a more active and overt role and China would prefer a Taliban government and in the bargain to keep both US and India out of this game!
President Trump’s decision to increase the US military footprint in Afghanistan gives a confusing signal -whether it is for a negotiated peace or an inclusive Government getting all factions including Taliban in the Government or go all out for a military solution or to support the current government to deal on its own.
Historically, India has been maintaining a cordial socio-cultural relationship with Afghanistan. The absence of a common border is a major handicap that poses a geographical hurdle that cannot be wished away. The Indian interests would include an independent Afghanistan not dependent on any particular country.
Saudi Arabia’s objective is limited to fears of Iranian influence in Afghanistan and Central Asia and take counter measures even if this involves supporting some militant factions!
In this confusing situation where the State Actors from different countries with different agenda are maneuvering to get involved to protect their interests, it is Afghanistan and its people who are suffering. If only Afghanistan is left alone, there could be progress but that will not be allowed by other powers with vested interests and not have the interest of Afghanistan or its people.
The writer can be reached at[email protected]
SAAG is the South Asia Analysis Group, a non-profit, non-commercial think tank. The objective of SAAG is to advance strategic analysis and contribute to the expansion of knowledge of Indian and International security and promote public understanding.
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Name*
Email*
Website

What is the MENA region? MENA is the acronym for “Middle East and North Africa”, regularly used in academic and
This article is just plain wrong! The author may have a professorship, but his academic rigor is very poor. To…
there are legitimate reasons for USA to dissolve. the country is divided and bankrupt whoever wins the next election will…
THIS IS ONE OF THE WORSE PIECES EVER POSTED ON EURASIA REVIEW, MOST RACIST, ANTI-SEMITIC ANTI-UKRAINIAN RANT. WHY DID ER…
This is either the most self-deceiving rose-tinted spectacles view of Russia I have ever read, or a despicable set of…
It is wishful thinking to expect Gwadar Port to be a game changer for Pakistan. It has not materialized so…

Title: Prensa Latina - Latin American News Agency
German multinational Volkswagen to implement forced layoffs
Over 400 forest fires in a week in Ecuador
Cuban southeastern region prepares for TURNAT 2024
El Salvador starts September with zero homicides
China calls statements on Xinjiang false and interfering
Syria appreciates Cuba’s support to the Palestinian people
Anuncios Prensa Latina PUBLICIDAD
Anuncios Prensa Latina PUBLICIDAD
| TextSMSto8100with contentPLReceive 4 mesages x 25 cup
© 2016-2021 Prensa LatinaLatin American News Agency
Radio – Publications  – Videos – News by the minute.All Rigts Reserved.
St. E No 454 , Vedado,  Habana, Cuba.Phones: (+53) 7 838 3496, (+53) 7 838 3497, (+53) 7 838 3498, (+53) 7 838 3499Prensa Latina © 2021 .
Web Site developed by IT Division  Prensa Latina.

Title: Afghanistan: Top Taliban commander Qari Qayum among 4 killed – India TV
Afghanistan: Taliban key commander Qari Qayum among 4 killed (representational image)
Taliban key commander Qari Qayum was among four militants who have been killed in Afghanistan's Baghlan province, an army spokesman said on Thursday.
"The security forces have pounded Taliban hideouts in parts of Dand-e-Ghori district of Baghlan province and the death of Taliban notorious commander Qari Qayum has been confirmed. He was killed along with three of his armed men," Mohammad Hanif Rezai said.
Eight more militants were wounded in the offensive, the spokesman added. The elimination of Qayum could be a major blow to the Taliban militants in the province, the official added, without providing more details.
Taliban militants are yet to make comments on the report.RelatedStoriesIslamic State bomber kills 20, Taliban kill 9 policemen in AfghanistanTaliban commander killed in Afghan drone strikeAfghanistan: Govt aircrafts target Taliban hideout in Nawbhar, Taliban commander among 10 militants killed
Top News
Tirupati laddus row: Devotee claims tobacco found in prasadam, TTD denies reports
Tirupati's Laddu Row: Spat between Pawan Kalyan, Prakash Raj continues
Ishan Kishan included, Dhruv Jurel, Yash Dayal picked in Rest of India's squad for Irani Cup
Related World News
BREAKING: Israeli airstrike on Beirut kills Hezbollah commander Ibrahim Quabaisi | Report
'Suicide capsule': In a first, woman dies in Switzerland within minutes of pressing 'death button'
Bangladesh govt chief Yunus evades questions from Indian media in New York | Video goes viral
Israel's deadliest airstrikes on Lebanon kill 558 including 50 children, 94 women: Health Ministry
Harini Amarasuriya named as the new Prime Minister of Sri Lanka | Who is she?
Latest News
BREAKING: Israeli airstrike on Beirut kills Hezbollah commander Ibrahim Quabaisi | Report
'Suicide capsule': In a first, woman dies in Switzerland within minutes of pressing 'death button'
Tirupati's Laddu Row: Spat between Pawan Kalyan, Prakash Raj continues
Muqabla: Badlapur encounter true or fake?
© 2009-2024 Independent News Service.  All rights reserved.
As tensions between Israel & Hezbollah rise, what will be socio-economic impact of a full-blown war?
Yoga, 24 September 2024: 4 'white' enemies in the path of long life...How to get a healthy life?
PM Modi at UN 'Summit of the Future': Poverty to Global South, Top 5 takeaways from PM Modi's speech
Israel-Hezbollah Conflict: IDF bombards over 300 Hezbollah targets in Lebanon, several dead
Horoscope Today, 24 September, 2024: Know Your Zodiac-Based Predictions
Tirupati laddu row: Centre issues show cause notice to ghee supplier
Punjab govt conducts major administrative reshuffle, transfers 124 IAS, PCS officers
OPINION | Encounters: Are They Caste Based?
Breaking News, September 24 | LIVE updates
Aaj Ki Baat: Full episode, September 23, 2024
'Suicide capsule': In a first, woman dies in Switzerland within minutes of pressing 'death button'
Bangladesh govt chief Yunus evades questions from Indian media in New York | Video goes viral
Israel's deadliest airstrikes on Lebanon kill 558 including 50 children, 94 women: Health Ministry
Harini Amarasuriya named as the new Prime Minister of Sri Lanka | Who is she?
Trump accuses US Justice Department, FBI of 'mishandling, downplaying' second assassination bid case
Tirupati's Laddu Row: Spat between Pawan Kalyan, Prakash Raj continues
Sohum Shah’s Tumbbad surpasses Thalapathy Vijay's Ghilli, becomes highest-grossing Indian re-release
Did you know Omar Abdullah had THIS objection to Ranbir-Deepika starrer 'Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani'?
Vashu Bhagnani, Jackky Bhagnani accuse Ali Abbas Zafar for of siphoning funds
Maharaj actor Shalini Pandey joins Dhanush's 'Idli Kadai', begins shooting in Hyderabad
Ishan Kishan included, Dhruv Jurel, Yash Dayal picked in Rest of India's squad for Irani Cup
Ajinkya Rahane to lead, Shreyas Iyer, Shardul Thakur in as Mumbai announce squad for Irani Cup
On This Day in 2007: MS Dhoni-led team India won inaugural T20 World Cup edition beating Pakistan
First time in more than 20 years! Nicholas Pooran touches massive six-hitting milestone in 2024
Virat Kohli on cusp of breaking Sachin Tendulkar and Don Bradman's records vs Bangladesh in 2nd Test
How new Jammu and Kashmir assembly will be different from earlier ones in terms of power?
Israel-Hezbollah tensions peak: What will be socio-economic impact of full-blown war? | EXPLAINED
Jammu and Kashmir Assembly Elections: How many candidates in Phase 2 are facing criminal cases?
When was last 'One Nation, One Election' held in India and who broke the cycle? DETAILS
One Nation, One Election: Why is Centre planning to implement it, what are its benefits? | Explained
Fake registration drive: Tax authorities uncover over 10,000 bogus firms under GST across country
Stock markets early trade: Sensex crosses 85,000-mark for first time, Nifty hits record high
EPFO withdrawal: How to withdraw money from PF account without employer’s approval? Check process
Sensex, Nifty touch all-time closing high levels amid strong foreign fund inflows
Will UPI users discontinue service if transaction fee is imposed? Check what survey reveals
Suffering from back pain? It can be a sign of heart attack, know other symptoms
Fed up of wearing glasses all day long? Follow THESE natural remedies to improve your eyesight
Fatty liver causes several serious health issues, know how to keep the organ healthy
Say goodbye to dirty cholesterol buildup in veins with THESE 5 home remedies
Cold and cough due to weather transition? Consume THIS Ayurvedic powder to get relief

Title: Can Russia End the War in Afghanistan? – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
Russia has been seeking to establish a leading role in the stabilization of Afghanistan.
On August 27, Mohammed Jawed Hejri, a senior official in Afghanistan’s Takhar province, alleged that Russian or Tajikborder aircraftlaunched a bombing raid against narcotics smugglers in northern Afghanistan. While the Russian Ministry of Defenseswiftly deniedHejri’s allegations, the bombing raid sparked a fresh debate on Moscow’s strategic interests in Afghanistan.
Although Russia has been criticized by senior U.S. officials, likeGeneral John Nicholsonand the U.S. Department of State’sAlice Wells, for allegedly providing arms to the Taliban, Russian policymakers have emphasized Moscow’s commitment to peace in Afghanistan. The benefits of a stable Afghanistan for Russian policymakers are manifold, as a peace settlement in Afghanistan would enhance the security of crucial Russian allies in Central Asia, like Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, and stem the inflow of narcotics and militants into Russia’s southern frontiers. Through a series of Moscow-format talks, which began as a result of a December 2016 gathering ofsenior officialsfrom China, Pakistan, and Russia on combatting Islamic State (ISIS), Russia is seeking to establish a leading role in the stabilization of Afghanistan and showcase its conflict arbitration prowess to a broad international audience.
Russia’s strategy to achieve peace in Afghanistan consists of three main policies. First, Russia believes that Afghan National Army (ANA) forces and international actors should intensify their efforts to defeat the Islamic State’s South Asia branch, Islamic State-Khorasan Province (ISKP). To justify Russia’s focus on the ISKP threat, the Russian president’s special envoy to Afghanistan, Zamir Kabulov, has stated that ISKP has10,000 active fightersin Afghanistan. This assessment contrasts withU.S. estimatesof 2,000 active ISKP fighters in Afghanistan. To mobilize its allies against the terrorist group, Russia has argued that ISIS fighters have migrated from the Middle East to Afghanistan, and pose a threat to South Asia and the post-Soviet region.
In order to vanquish ISKP, Russia is calling for a recalibration of U.S. and ANA-backed counterterrorism efforts in Afghanistan. Russian policymakers believe that the U.S. military’s overarching focus on defeating the Taliban is indirectly strengthening ISKP as the Taliban and Islamic State branch have hostile relations and can be pitted against each other. While U.S. policymakers believe that labelling the Taliban as a lesser evil to ISKP mischaracterizes the situation in Afghanistan, Russia hopes that mutual concern over the recent spate of Islamic State terror attacks in Kabul and Jalalabad will allow for greater Russia-U.S. cooperation against ISKP. Russian policymakers viewed the intensification of U.S. military strikes onISKP targets in eastern Afghanistanduring the early June ceasefire as an encouraging development, and Moscow has strategized with its Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) allies ondeveloping a military action planto weaken ISKP.
Second, Russia believes that stability in Afghanistan is an impossibility as long as thenarcotics tradecontinues to provide revenues for militant groups. The narcotics trade in Afghanistan is a highly salient political issue in Russia, as the diffusion of heroin and opium from Afghanistan to Russia contributed greatly to the sustained rise in drug-related fatalities in Russia since 1991. As the Afghan narcotics trade has been a much less prominent part of the U.S. public discourse on Afghanistan, Russia believes that the United States is not doing enough to address this problem.
Even though Russia-U.S. anti-narcotics cooperation ended abruptly after the Obama administrationimposed sanctionson the Director of Russia’s Federal Narcotics Service Viktor Ivanov in 2014, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov publicly endorsed the restoration of NATO-Russia military cooperation against the narcotics trade in a December 2017 statement. While the breakdown of U.S.-Russia relations has stymied short-term hopes for renewed cooperation, Russia has worked with itsCentral Asian partners, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, on combatting drug trafficking from Afghanistan, and hopes that these efforts, combined with periodic U.S. military strikes will reduce inflows of narcotic-derived revenues to extremist groups.
Third, Russia is seeking to divide the Taliban between moderate members that are willing to entertain a political settlement with Ghani’s government, and extremist members that seek the prolongation of the war at all costs. In response to U.S. President Donald Trump’s August 2017 decision to expand the scope of U.S. military operations in Afghanistan, Russia has insisted that pursuing a purely military solution to the war in Afghanistan is destined to fail and that the Talibanneeds to be engagedas a legitimate stakeholder.
Although the Taliban’s refusal to participate in January’s Istanbul talks and March’s Tashkent process seemingly undercut Russia’s case, Moscow has been encouraged by the Taliban’s willingness tohold talkswith U.S. officials in Doha, attend an Uzbek Foreign Ministry-sponsoredmediation summiton August 11, and participate in thenext roundof Moscow-format talks on Afghanistan’s political future.
While the September 4 Moscow-format talks were temporarily postponed after the Afghan governmentrejected Russia’s invitation, Russian policymakers hope that this multilateral peace process will resume shortly, and result in productive dialogue between Afghanistan’s warring factions. If the Taliban were to make a concrete commitment to peace as a result of Kremlin-backed negotiations, the Russian government will be able to highlight Moscow’s indispensability as a diplomatic stakeholder in Afghanistan, and showcase Russia’s great power status to nationalists at home.
Even though Russia has been frequently described as a saboteur of peace in Afghanistan, a closer examination of Moscow’s motives and conduct suggests that a political settlement in Afghanistan would more effectively advance Russia’s interests than continued violence. By confining its objectives to an ambitious, yet achievable agenda, of weakening ISKP, combatting narco-trafficking and diplomatically engaging the Taliban, Russia can contribute to ending the war in Afghanistan, and use its rising diplomatic profile to bolster its own security and international standing in the months to come.
Samuel Ramani is a DPhil candidate in International Relations at St. Antony’s College, University of Oxford. He is also a contributor toThe Washington PostandThe National Interest. He can be followed onTwitter at samramani2, and onFacebook at Samuel Ramani.This article has been previously published by theEastWest Institute.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: ISIS fighters surrender to Afghan forces in Jowzjan province
A large number of Islamic State-Khorasan Province fighters have surrendered to Afghan forces in the northern Jowzjan province, a spokesperson for the U.S. military and NATO mission in Afghanistan said.
Afghan and foreign media reported on Wednesday, August 1 that as many as 150 ISKP fighters had surrendered to the Afghan army overnight.
“We are aware of and have received similar reports, which follow Afghan-led, and U.S. advised and enabled, offensive operations, and most recently Taliban attacks. We can confirm that a large number of ISIS-K fighters have indeed surrendered to Afghan authorities,” Resolute Support and U.S. Forces-Afghanistan spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Martin L. O’Donnell told The Defense Post.
O’Donnell said USFOR-A and Resolute Support were unable to confirm the exact number of fighters who turned themselves in.
The Afghan Ministry of Defense later said more than 150 ISKP fighters surrendered, including the ISKP commander in Darzab district, Mawlawi Habiburahman and his deputy, Mufti Nematullah.
The ministry said in a statement it was “a result of military pressure and heavy blows against the group.”
“Afghan National Army as the nation’s defense forces, are ready to give sacrifice to bring lasting peace and security to the people and are determined to eradicate terror groups in Afghanistan,” the statement added.
The Afghan National Army 209th ‘Shaheen’ Corps releasedphotosshowing some of the ISKP fighters, including some who appear to be children.
“While notable, it is premature to draw conclusions that this degradation of ISIS-K equates to its collapse in the north of the country. That said, there is no safe haven in Afghanistan for ISIS-K, nor ISIS or any other foreign fighter fleeing losses elsewhere and looking to reestablish a presence from which to terrorize innocent Afghan civilians and propagate their violent extremist actions,” O’Donnell said.
Mohammad Hanif Rezaee, a spokesperson for the ANA 209th Corps in the north said that an ISKP “leader and deputy surrendered with more than 150 fighters all at once,” AFP reported.
Thirty women and children also handed themselves in to Afghan authorities, he added.
“While it is still a developing story, we might be convinced that after a heavy one-month long battle against the Taliban, and the U.S. surge earlier this year, that Islamic State project in the north has largely failed,” said Pawel Wojcik, a terrorism analyst who researches jihad in Central and South-East Asia.
“Some ISKP pockets remain in Jowzjan but they seem to be irellevant to whatQari Hekmathad achieved before a U.S. drone hit him in April. His death is the main reason for the Taliban’s success, and that was enabled by U.S. forces.”
ISKP had built a stronghold in the north of Afghanistanbut recently theTaliban has been fighting the groupafter an attack on their forces in Sar-e-Pol last month that killed 15 fighters and a commander.
The Taliban also took credit for the surrender, saying it had “cleared” Jowzjan of ISKP.
Turning east: the rise of Islamic State’s Khorasan Province

This story was updated at 1930 GMT on August 1 to add the Afghan Ministry of Defense statement.
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Name*
Email*
Website


Δ
The Defense Post aims to publish a wide range of high-quality opinion and analysis from a diverse array of people – do you want to send us yours?Click here to submit an Op-Ed

Title: Kafila
If you are looking for beautiful pieces for your gardens, head over
Gainful is a brand of protein, hydration, pre-workout, and performance boosts products,
You can do more with what you have in your wardrobe today.
Are you in search for the best tourist attractions where you can
Zenni Optical offers eyewear for everyone. Are you ready to revolutionize the
Carhartt is the all-time favorite clothing brand among thousands of fashion enthusiasts
Not all shoes are created equal. There are shoes for leisure, sports,
The recreation of vaping is one of the best experiences, for it
Deramores is your online shopping destination for anything about knitting and crochet.
Voogueme is one of the world’s leading providers of stylish prescription eyewear,
If there is that perfect water bottle brand for your needs, it
Are you a self-proclaimed, passionate green thumb? Choose to find your preferred
kafila@freeemail.biz|Contact Us|Privacy Policy

Title: Islamic State attacks show group is intent on killing Afghan peace hopes | Afghanistan | The Guardian
Islamic State’s lethal escalation coincides with renewed efforts to end 17-year Afghan war
The suicide bombing and hostage-taking at a government buildingin Jalalabadis the latest in a series of attacks, attributed toIslamic Stateterrorists, that have killed or wounded hundreds of people in eastern Afghanistan since mid-June.
The Isis offensive appears to be partly in response to stepped-up operations by US special forces and the Afghan army toroot out its fightersin Deh Bala and other rural districts of eastern Nangarhar province and thereby disrupt supply lines reaching into Pakistan.
But the terrorists’ lethal escalation including Tuesday’s assault has also coincided, probably deliberately, with signs of progress in renewed efforts to halt the 17-year-old, US-orchestrated war between the Afghan government and theTaliban, the country’s principal Islamist insurgent group.
Political and territorial rivalry between the Isis affiliate in Afghanistan – known as theIslamic StateKhorasan Province (ISKP) – and the Taliban has been growing since 2014. Analysts say the ISKP, hostile to any accommodation with the west and its “apostate” proxies, has been intent on disrupting peace initiatives before they can get off the ground.
During asuccessful three-day ceasefire last month, Taliban fighters shouldered arms and entered towns and cities for impromptu meetings with local officials and elders.Ashraf Ghani, Afghanistan’s president, looking ahead to parliamentary elections in October, reportedly hopes to agree another, longer cessation of hostilities in August.
Meanwhile, it was revealed last week that senior US officials recently met Taliban leaders in Qatar in anapparent bid to kickstart a peace process. Past US administrations had always refused the insurgents’ demand for face-to-face talks, insisting they deal with the government in Kabul. Now, follow-up meetings have been planned.
Given the confusion and ambiguity surrounding US Afghan policy since Donald Trump took office, this sudden shift should not be interpreted as unusual. Trump has vowed to eliminate Isis, which unlike the Taliban presents a global threat. But he has repeatedly expressed scepticism about continuing American involvement in Afghanistan,implying he would like to withdraw.
Trump has particularly objected to the cost. The US has spent more money, adjusted for inflation, onAfghanistansince 2001 than it did on the Marshall Plan for Europe after 1945. Yet bowing to military advice,Trump has sent troop reinforcementsand asked Nato to follow suit. The UK recently did so.
The US operations in Deh Bala were designed to curb the ISKP’s ability to attack cities such as Jalalabad – an aim that seems to have signally failed. Deh Bala adjoins Achin district, whereTrump ostentatiously dropped a Moab, or massive ordinance air blast – the “mother of all bombs” – on Isis hideouts last year. His claims of success were subsequently mocked in an ISKP video.
Analysts said American concern about the ISKP was shared by Iran and Russia, which have reportedly supplied arms and logistical help to the Taliban. China, always mindful of its regional economic interests, was said to share worries the ISKP could weaken the already divided Taliban leadership and reduce its ability to strike a lasting peace deal.
Despite the fact it has also been split, into eastern and northern factions, the ISKP was believed to have been strengthened by Taliban defectors, fighters displaced from Iraq and Syria, and militants from Sudan, Chechnya, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan. Its funding supposedly comes from private donors, Arab Gulf states and informal local taxes.
According to Sudha Ratan of Augusta University, India and Afghanistan seethe ISKP and its 3,000-5,000 fightersas a “breakaway faction” of the Tehreek-e-Taliban (TTP), or Pakistani Taliban, allegedly groomed by the ISI, Pakistan’s intelligence service. Pakistan has denied the charge. But such claims and counter-claims underscore the challenge facing Pakistan’s prime minister-designate, Imran Khan, who has previously beenaccused of Taliban sympathiesbut has more recently said he wanted better relations with Kabul.
The ISKP’s mostly foreign origins, its extreme brutality – including beheadings and forcing victims to sit on explosives – and its documented, systematic use of rape and abduction interrorising women and girlshave done much to alienate the Afghan civilian population.
Now, in a strange twist, the US and the Afghan government appear to be relying on their bitter Taliban enemies to help them vanquish this greater evil and simultaneously end the war.

Title: No title found


Title: Afghan students defy attackers and return to class - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
Fereshta Abbasi
Madina, 17, headed off to class last Wednesday as she had always done, pursuing her hope to go to university and earn a business degree so she could start her own company. But for Madina and 39 other students – all under 20 years old – those dreams will never come true.
A suicide bomber detonated his explosives inside a large classroom in Kabul’s Mawoud Academy, which runs courses to prepare students for Afghanistan’s university entrance exam. Most of the students had come to Kabulfrom poorer areas of the countryjust for this chance to study. Forty students, male and female,died in the attack, and at least 67 were injured.
Madina died two days after the attack. Her family told me that she had always been frustrated that some girls she knew could not afford tuition fees, and she hoped one day to be able to help other Afghan girls study. To honor those wishes, her father Ismael La’liannounced on social mediathat instead of spending money on a large funeral, he will give 500,000 afghanis (US$6,900) to help pay for the medical treatment of other students injured in the attack, as well as the tuition costs of four of Madina’s classmates.
Ataullah and Farzana, twin brother and sister, were also among the victims. They had hopes ofgoing to law school. Their father was working the night shift in a bakery to afford their tuition. “They left the world together,” he said. “They were one soul, in two bodies.”
The Islamic State of Khorasan province (ISKP), the Afghanistan branch of the Islamic State,claimed responsibilityfor the attack; the attackerwas himself a teenage boy.
The bombing was the latest ina series of horrific crimesby ISKP targeting Hazaras, a predominantly Shia minority in Afghanistan. It was also part of abroader pattern of attacksby the group on the right to education.
Two days later, some students were already back in class, evensome of thosewho were badly injured. Madina’s father expressed the feelings of manywhen he said, “No one can stop us from getting an education. If they kill one of our students, we will enroll five others to schools and send them to universities.”
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Afghan Students Defy Attackers and Return to Class | Human Rights Watch
Suicide Bombing Latest Attack Targeting Shia Community
FereshtaAbbasi
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
Madina, 17, headed off to class last Wednesday as she had always done, pursuing her hope to go to university and earn a business degree so she could start her own company. But for Madina and 39 other students – all under 20 years old – those dreams will never come true.
A suicide bomber detonated his explosives inside a large classroom in Kabul’s Mawoud Academy, which runs courses to prepare students for Afghanistan’s university entrance exam. Most of the students had come to Kabulfrom poorer areas of the countryjust for this chance to study. Forty students, male and female,died in the attack, and at least 67 were injured.
Madina died two days after the attack. Her family told me that she had always been frustrated that some girls she knew could not afford tuition fees, and she hoped one day to be able to help other Afghan girls study. To honor those wishes, her father Ismael La’liannounced on social mediathat instead of spending money on a large funeral, he will give 500,000 afghanis (US$6,900) to help pay for the medical treatment of other students injured in the attack, as well as the tuition costs of four of Madina’s classmates.
Ataullah and Farzana, twin brother and sister, were also among the victims. They had hopes ofgoing to law school. Their father was working the night shift in a bakery to afford their tuition. “They left the world together,” he said. “They were one soul, in two bodies.”
The Islamic State of Khorasan province (ISKP), the Afghanistan branch of the Islamic State,claimed responsibilityfor the attack; the attackerwas himself a teenage boy.
The bombing was the latest ina series of horrific crimesby ISKP targeting Hazaras, a predominantly Shia minority in Afghanistan. It was also part of abroader pattern of attacksby the group on the right to education.
Two days later, some students were already back in class, evensome of thosewho were badly injured. Madina’s father expressed the feelings of manywhen he said, “No one can stop us from getting an education. If they kill one of our students, we will enroll five others to schools and send them to universities.”
The Taliban’s Impact on Boys’ Education in Afghanistan
Neglecting the Rights of LGBT Youth in South Korean Schools
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
Human Rights Watch defends the rights of people in close to 100 countries worldwide, spotlighting abuses and bringing perpetrators to justice
Get updates on human rights issues from around the globe. Join our movement today.
Every weekday, get the world’s top human rights news, explored and explained by Andrew Stroehlein.
Human Rights Watchis a 501(C)(3) nonprofit registered in the US under EIN: 13-2875808

Title: No title found


Title: Cumulus Media
Cumulus Mediais an audio-first media company delivering premium content to over a quarter billion people every month — wherever and whenever they want it.
Cumulus Media engages listeners with high-quality local programming through 401 owned-and-operated radio stations across 85 markets; delivers nationally-syndicated sports, news, talk, and entertainment programming from iconic brands including the NFL, the NCAA, the Masters, Infinity Sports Network, AP News, the Academy of Country Music Awards, and many other world-class partners across more than 9,800 affiliated stations through Westwood One, the largest audio network in America; and inspires listeners through the Cumulus Podcast Network, its rapidly growing network of original podcasts that are smart, entertaining and thought-provoking.
Cumulus Media provides advertisers with personal connections, local impact and national reach through broadcast and on-demand digital, mobile, social, and voice-activated platforms, as well as integrated digital marketing services, powerful influencers, full-service audio solutions, industry-leading research and insights, and live event experiences. Cumulus Media is the only audio media company to provide marketers with local and national advertising performance guarantees.

Title: WICC | WICC 600AM & 959FM








Melissa in the Morning is hosted by Melissa Sheketoff who gathers top news headlines locally and nationally to keep WICC listeners in the know, delivering the information that matters most to you. Every week, enjoy live interviews from state leaders, business owners and local experts. Melissa has recently connected with Governor Ned Lamont, who has…
Listen at the start of every hour for breaking news updates from CBS News.
Host Paul Pacelli jump-started a new week on “Connecticut Today” by pointing out the hypocrisy from some of our elected leaders when it comes to urban gun violence (00:56). University of New Haven criminal justice lecturer and former Supervisory Secret Service Agent Bobby McDonald commented on a new report regarding errors made by the agency…
This week, there’s a wonderful opportunity to check out the Wall the Heals in Bridgeport, thanks to the Port 5 National Association of Naval Veterans. Brian Turco is the Executive Officer of Port 5 NANV and shared the significance of the traveling replicated Vietnam War Wall from DC being here in Connecticut. The Wall That…
For the first time, Attorney General William Tong addressed his part in attacking the Success Village complex between Bridgeport and Stratford. The attorney general spoke with us about his behind-the-scenes work and how his letter to bankruptcy court could have helped in a big way swaying the judge to toss a chapter 11 filing. IMAGE…
UConn upper classmen are reporting a major housing crisis across all five UConn campuses following a record number of incoming freshmen this year. We asked Senator Bob Duff about his talks with UConn’s president about this issue. Image Credit: Getty Images
Join WICC “The Voice of Connecticut” at Stratford’s annual Great Pumpkin Festival on Saturday, October 19th! 12pm – 4pm Boothe Memorial Park, 5800 Main Street in Stratford Get spooky in Stratford! The Annual Great Pumpkin Festival will happen again this year on the grounds of Boothe Memorial Park. Activities include: pumpkin carving contest, kids’ costume…
“Connecticut Today” with host Paul Pacelli opened Friday’s show wondering what – if anything – can be done to prevent student-generated school threats (00:25). Author, columnist and historian Max Boot talked about his new book, “Reagan: His Life and Legend” (07:41) Image Credit: iStock / Getty Images Plus
Historian and award-winning author, Arlen Schumer, joins Lisa Wexler to talk about hosting The Westport Library’s The Twilight Zone Symposium 9/26/24 – 9/29/24. Image Credit: Tracy Molero / iStock / Getty Images Plus
According to new state report, Connecticut’s unemployment rate dropped in August and July. State Republicans are specifically calling attention to manufacturing jobs and the struggle filling positions. We spoke to Connecticut’s Chief Manufacturing Officer, Paul Lavoie, to get a better understanding of the challenges filling manufacturing positions and how the state is tackling the problem.…
United Illuminating’s plans to install monopoles that will greatly impact Fairfield and Bridgeport. Because of House Bill 5507, The Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP) could have a stronger voice in decisions about where utilities infrastructure is placed. We spoke with First Selectman Bill Gerber about the call to action for residents. S end…
Melissa in the Morning is hosted by Melissa Sheketoff who gathers top news headlines locally and nationally to keep WICC listeners in the know, delivering the information that matters most to you. Every week, enjoy live interviews from state leaders, business owners and local experts. Melissa has recently connected with Governor Ned Lamont, who has…
Listen at the start of every hour for breaking news updates from CBS News.
Host Paul Pacelli jump-started a new week on “Connecticut Today” by pointing out the hypocrisy from some of our elected leaders when it comes to urban gun violence (00:56). University of New Haven criminal justice lecturer and former Supervisory Secret Service Agent Bobby McDonald commented on a new report regarding errors made by the agency…
This week, there’s a wonderful opportunity to check out the Wall the Heals in Bridgeport, thanks to the Port 5 National Association of Naval Veterans. Brian Turco is the Executive Officer of Port 5 NANV and shared the significance of the traveling replicated Vietnam War Wall from DC being here in Connecticut. The Wall That…
For the first time, Attorney General William Tong addressed his part in attacking the Success Village complex between Bridgeport and Stratford. The attorney general spoke with us about his behind-the-scenes work and how his letter to bankruptcy court could have helped in a big way swaying the judge to toss a chapter 11 filing. IMAGE…
UConn upper classmen are reporting a major housing crisis across all five UConn campuses following a record number of incoming freshmen this year. We asked Senator Bob Duff about his talks with UConn’s president about this issue. Image Credit: Getty Images
Join WICC “The Voice of Connecticut” at Stratford’s annual Great Pumpkin Festival on Saturday, October 19th! 12pm – 4pm Boothe Memorial Park, 5800 Main Street in Stratford Get spooky in Stratford! The Annual Great Pumpkin Festival will happen again this year on the grounds of Boothe Memorial Park. Activities include: pumpkin carving contest, kids’ costume…
“Connecticut Today” with host Paul Pacelli opened Friday’s show wondering what – if anything – can be done to prevent student-generated school threats (00:25). Author, columnist and historian Max Boot talked about his new book, “Reagan: His Life and Legend” (07:41) Image Credit: iStock / Getty Images Plus
Historian and award-winning author, Arlen Schumer, joins Lisa Wexler to talk about hosting The Westport Library’s The Twilight Zone Symposium 9/26/24 – 9/29/24. Image Credit: Tracy Molero / iStock / Getty Images Plus
According to new state report, Connecticut’s unemployment rate dropped in August and July. State Republicans are specifically calling attention to manufacturing jobs and the struggle filling positions. We spoke to Connecticut’s Chief Manufacturing Officer, Paul Lavoie, to get a better understanding of the challenges filling manufacturing positions and how the state is tackling the problem.…
United Illuminating’s plans to install monopoles that will greatly impact Fairfield and Bridgeport. Because of House Bill 5507, The Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP) could have a stronger voice in decisions about where utilities infrastructure is placed. We spoke with First Selectman Bill Gerber about the call to action for residents. S end…






Title: Kabul: The Second Peshawar for Selling Military Uniforms & Equipment | Small Wars Journal
Kabul: The Second Peshawar for Selling Military Uniforms & Equipment
Abdul Rahman Rahmani
Selling military equipment in Kabul has become a cause for concern among both Afghans and their international partners. To maintain law and order, boost the morale of Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF), and strengthen the trust between ANSF and ordinary Afghans, the Kabul police must ban selling military goods in open markets.
Last month Uzbek’s protested the arrest of Nizamudding Qaisari, an Uzbek warlord and district police chief, by Afghan military forces in the Faryab province. Qaisari used his platform as police chief tothreatenedboth civilian and military officials on several occasions. He was a close ally of Vice President General Abdul Rashid Dostum, “who has fallen out with the Afghan President,” and has chosen to live in exile in Turkey. Most Afghans welcomed the arrest of Qaisari. However, shortly after Qaisari’s arrest, a video circulated on social media criticizing Afghan Commandos for abusing and kicking Qaisari’s men. In thisparticular videoat least one man was wearing a commando uniform, displaying a commando patch on his right arm.
As a direct result of this video, commandos are being criticized by the members of government opposition groups such as newGrand National Coalitionthat emerged last week in Kabul. These opposition groups believe the commandos violated both civil and military laws, claiming the commandos are guilty of various war crimes.  However, top government officials, including General Bismillah Waziri, the commander of the commandos,deniedinvolvement in the incident in Faryab. The only logical answer is that this propaganda video was created to slander the legitimacy of the Afghan Commandos and Afghan government. The question remains, where did that man obtain his uniform and commando patch?  Additionally, while a singular incident, how does a video like this affect the valued opinion of the populace regarding Afghan commandos. And lastly, what should be done to regain the trust between Afghans and the ANSF? If a picture speaks one-thousand words and perception is reality, those who oppose the legitimacy of the Afghan government can easily attack the legitimacy of the ANSF by adopting their uniforms for acts of violence, with increased effectiveness if these acts are captured on social media.
In May of 2018, at least ten Daesh militantswearing U.S. military uniformsattacked the Interior Ministry in Kabul. These attackers, who had counterfeit United States Army identification cards, were heavily armed with rifles, bombs, grenades and utilized armored vehicles. A key finding in the investigation following the attack is where the militants purchased these uniforms.
Researchers have criticized Pakistani black markets for years regarding the practice of selling military goods. For example,this reportconfirms that, “U.S. combat boots, eye protection,  uniforms, knives, torches, tools, socks, beds and even night vision goggles are sold in Chaman and Peshawar,” in Pakistan. However, Kabul has become the second Peshawar for militants because they can openly purchase “uniforms, boots, badges, insignia, and other military and police items,” on theblack market. There are at least four black markets in Kabul - Kohna Foroshi in the East, Pul-e-Khishti in the city’s Center, Kota-e-Sangi in the West andBush Bazaar, which was named after former U.S. President George W. Bush. In these black markets you can find an enormous variety of military gear and equipment, to include U.S. and Afghani uniforms. If you build trust with shopkeepers, you may even purchase original pistols, AK-47s, and M4 rifles. General Waziri openly stated in the mentioned video that the “commandos’ patch and uniform can be found throughout the country.
After 9/11, and the overthrow of the Taliban regime, if Afghan can trust just one thing in their country, it is that their security forces are their last hope against insurgents and violent extremists who are constantly murdering their fellow Afghans. As a symbol of this trust, Afghansgifted rosesto their security forces on many occasions including during a peaceful protest held by Hazaras in Kabul two years ago. To boost morale, people have also held many gatherings in support of military operations conducted by ANSF.  At the same time, in this same city, military equipment is sold openly in many markets. This greatly demoralizes Afghan security forces because this equipment is being used by various militant groups who are killing innocents. The situation in Afghanistan is different than other countries that sell military goods in open markets or online stores. Education is diminished within the country, and some schools are still being burned in certain areas by the Taliban and other terrorist groups. More than20 terrorist organizationsare operating in the country, andmore than 50 Afghansare killed by these insurgents on a daily basis. Afghan military forces are fighting against an imposed war. Selling military goods in such a country does not only eradicate and weaken law and order but also greatly contribute to militant operations throughout the country. It diminishes trust between ANSF and ordinary Afghans and weakens ANSF morale. To maintain law and order, improve the morale of ANSF, and strengthen the trust between ANSF and ordinary Afghans the Kabul police must ban the selling of military goods in open markets. The unifying cloth of the Afghan National Security forces is not just a uniform, it is a symbol of hope in a region that deserves to be protected, and we must protect that symbol of hope from slander by those who wish to delegitimize both the Afghan government and Afghan military.

Abdul Rahman Rahmani is a pilot-in-command at Special Mission Wing in Afghanistan and the author of the book,Afghanistan A Collection of Stories. Rahmani is an Expeditionary Warfare School graduate from Marine Corps University and has bachelor’s degree in Sociology from Kabul University. The conclusions and opinions expressed in his articles are his alone and do not reflect the official position of Afghan National Army, the Ministry of Defense, or the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.
©2005-2020
Small Wars Journal is published bySmall Wars Foundation- a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation.Original content is published under aCreative Commons Licenseper ourTerms of Use.
© Copyright 2024| Site by3C Web Services

Title: Kabul: The Second Peshawar for Selling Military Uniforms & Equipment | Small Wars Journal
Kabul: The Second Peshawar for Selling Military Uniforms & Equipment
Abdul Rahman Rahmani
Selling military equipment in Kabul has become a cause for concern among both Afghans and their international partners. To maintain law and order, boost the morale of Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF), and strengthen the trust between ANSF and ordinary Afghans, the Kabul police must ban selling military goods in open markets.
Last month Uzbek’s protested the arrest of Nizamudding Qaisari, an Uzbek warlord and district police chief, by Afghan military forces in the Faryab province. Qaisari used his platform as police chief tothreatenedboth civilian and military officials on several occasions. He was a close ally of Vice President General Abdul Rashid Dostum, “who has fallen out with the Afghan President,” and has chosen to live in exile in Turkey. Most Afghans welcomed the arrest of Qaisari. However, shortly after Qaisari’s arrest, a video circulated on social media criticizing Afghan Commandos for abusing and kicking Qaisari’s men. In thisparticular videoat least one man was wearing a commando uniform, displaying a commando patch on his right arm.
As a direct result of this video, commandos are being criticized by the members of government opposition groups such as newGrand National Coalitionthat emerged last week in Kabul. These opposition groups believe the commandos violated both civil and military laws, claiming the commandos are guilty of various war crimes.  However, top government officials, including General Bismillah Waziri, the commander of the commandos,deniedinvolvement in the incident in Faryab. The only logical answer is that this propaganda video was created to slander the legitimacy of the Afghan Commandos and Afghan government. The question remains, where did that man obtain his uniform and commando patch?  Additionally, while a singular incident, how does a video like this affect the valued opinion of the populace regarding Afghan commandos. And lastly, what should be done to regain the trust between Afghans and the ANSF? If a picture speaks one-thousand words and perception is reality, those who oppose the legitimacy of the Afghan government can easily attack the legitimacy of the ANSF by adopting their uniforms for acts of violence, with increased effectiveness if these acts are captured on social media.
In May of 2018, at least ten Daesh militantswearing U.S. military uniformsattacked the Interior Ministry in Kabul. These attackers, who had counterfeit United States Army identification cards, were heavily armed with rifles, bombs, grenades and utilized armored vehicles. A key finding in the investigation following the attack is where the militants purchased these uniforms.
Researchers have criticized Pakistani black markets for years regarding the practice of selling military goods. For example,this reportconfirms that, “U.S. combat boots, eye protection,  uniforms, knives, torches, tools, socks, beds and even night vision goggles are sold in Chaman and Peshawar,” in Pakistan. However, Kabul has become the second Peshawar for militants because they can openly purchase “uniforms, boots, badges, insignia, and other military and police items,” on theblack market. There are at least four black markets in Kabul - Kohna Foroshi in the East, Pul-e-Khishti in the city’s Center, Kota-e-Sangi in the West andBush Bazaar, which was named after former U.S. President George W. Bush. In these black markets you can find an enormous variety of military gear and equipment, to include U.S. and Afghani uniforms. If you build trust with shopkeepers, you may even purchase original pistols, AK-47s, and M4 rifles. General Waziri openly stated in the mentioned video that the “commandos’ patch and uniform can be found throughout the country.
After 9/11, and the overthrow of the Taliban regime, if Afghan can trust just one thing in their country, it is that their security forces are their last hope against insurgents and violent extremists who are constantly murdering their fellow Afghans. As a symbol of this trust, Afghansgifted rosesto their security forces on many occasions including during a peaceful protest held by Hazaras in Kabul two years ago. To boost morale, people have also held many gatherings in support of military operations conducted by ANSF.  At the same time, in this same city, military equipment is sold openly in many markets. This greatly demoralizes Afghan security forces because this equipment is being used by various militant groups who are killing innocents. The situation in Afghanistan is different than other countries that sell military goods in open markets or online stores. Education is diminished within the country, and some schools are still being burned in certain areas by the Taliban and other terrorist groups. More than20 terrorist organizationsare operating in the country, andmore than 50 Afghansare killed by these insurgents on a daily basis. Afghan military forces are fighting against an imposed war. Selling military goods in such a country does not only eradicate and weaken law and order but also greatly contribute to militant operations throughout the country. It diminishes trust between ANSF and ordinary Afghans and weakens ANSF morale. To maintain law and order, improve the morale of ANSF, and strengthen the trust between ANSF and ordinary Afghans the Kabul police must ban the selling of military goods in open markets. The unifying cloth of the Afghan National Security forces is not just a uniform, it is a symbol of hope in a region that deserves to be protected, and we must protect that symbol of hope from slander by those who wish to delegitimize both the Afghan government and Afghan military.

Abdul Rahman Rahmani is a pilot-in-command at Special Mission Wing in Afghanistan and the author of the book,Afghanistan A Collection of Stories. Rahmani is an Expeditionary Warfare School graduate from Marine Corps University and has bachelor’s degree in Sociology from Kabul University. The conclusions and opinions expressed in his articles are his alone and do not reflect the official position of Afghan National Army, the Ministry of Defense, or the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.
©2005-2020
Small Wars Journal is published bySmall Wars Foundation- a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation.Original content is published under aCreative Commons Licenseper ourTerms of Use.
© Copyright 2024| Site by3C Web Services

Title: Outgoing US Commander Continues Tradition Hailing Progress Afghanistan - Business Insider
Outgoing U.S. commander Gen. John Nicholson today joined the succession of U.S. leaders who have predicted that the end of war in Afghanistan is in sight, despite the Taliban's ability to launch large-scale attacks and wreak chaos on major cities.
Nicholson, who will soon step down as commander of Operation Resolute Support and U.S. Forces - Afghanistan, said today that over the past three months he has seen significant progress in the peace process between the Afghan forces and the Taliban.
In June, Afghan forces and the Taliban participated in thefirst-ever ceasefiresince the war began in 2001. Nicholson said the Afghan people's response to the three-day event was "frankly overwhelming."
"This first ceasefire really unleashed the Afghan people's desire for peace ... on really a national and unprecedented scale," Nicholson told a group of defense reporters at the Pentagon.
Nicholson credited the recent progress to the Trump administration's strategy for dealing with South Asia that was launched about a year ago.
"I believe the strategy is working," he said. "Within six months, we have two peace offers on the table -- an open letter from the Taliban to the American people and [Afghan] President Ghani's peace offer.
"There will be ups and downs, there will be leap-a-heads, there will be frustrations, there will be two steps forward one step back from time to time, but the process has started and it wouldn't have happened without the South Asia strategy."
Nicholson's confident stance on operations in Afghanistan mirrors the positive assessments on Afghanistan that many U.S. leaders have made over the 17 years of war, only to see conditions deteriorate into stalemate.
In 2011, Democratic Sen. Carl Levin, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, praised Gen. David Petraeus for being "instrumental in turning the tide in Afghanistan," the Washington Post reported. Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., added that Petraeus's leadership is "turning around the war in Afghanistan."
In 2014, the Pentagon delivered a report to Congress outlining the progress in Afghanistan.
The Afghan national security forces "have done an exceptional job being in the lead in providing security for not one but two elections and put the Taliban on their heels during this fighting season," then-Pentagon Press Secretary Rear Adm. John Kirby said, citing the "Report on Progress Toward Security and Stability in Afghanistan."
"The Taliban continued to test the ANSF, but were unable to hold any significant terrain and were consistently overmatched when engaged by ANSF, sometimes enabled by coalition air and intelligence support," he said.
In July of 2017,Marine CorpsGen. Joe Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said that Afghan leaders have a new level of confidence about the future of their country.
"I haven't seen the degree of optimism in Afghanistan prior to this, [and] that includes my entire time there," said Dunford, who commanded the International Security Assistance Force and U.S. Forces Afghanistan from February 2013 to August 2014.
But as they have done in the past, the Taliban continue to demonstrate their prowess on the battlefield.
On Aug. 10, Taliban forces launcheda major assault on Ghazni, a city located within 100 miles of Kabul.
The fighting was fierce during the four-day battle. U.S.Air Forceaircraft and U.S.ArmyAH-64Apachegunships had to be called in to reinforce Afghan forces.
"There was a tough fight; it lasted about four days, and then they were driven out with higher casualties than they inflicted," Nicholson said. "They failed to take the prison, they failed to take the governor's palace, they failed to take the police station they were after, so they didn't seize their objectives.
"I acknowledge that the Taliban can launch attacks in cities. ... Do those attacks succeed in gaining and holding new ground? No."
A week after the Ghazni fight ended, Afghan President Ghani offered a second ceasefire on Aug. 19, which Nicholson said could continue until Nov. 20.
"So far we have not heard if the Taliban will accept or reject the ceasefire," Nicholson said.
Nicholson conceded that the past statements of optimism on Afghanistan that many leaders before him have expressed may have been premature.
"We certainly wanted to see this war be over many years ago," he said, adding that the long-term, U.S. presence in Afghanistan has been necessary.
"We are protecting the homeland; Al-Qaeda, Islamic state and 19 other terrorist groups are here," Nicholson said. "Our presence here is keeping pressure on them ... The Afghans are doing the fighting, they are leading the fight."
The Afghan air force is now doing over half the airstrikes in the country, Nicholson said. The U.S. train, advise and assist mission has helped to produce 45 companies of elite Afghan commandos, a number that will be doubled by next year, he added.
"So we are seeing progress in terms of the Afghan capabilities; this is not a purely U.S. or coalition fight."
Jump to

Title: Outgoing US Commander Continues Tradition of Hailing Progress in Afghanistan | Military.com
Outgoing U.S. commander Gen. John Nicholson today joined the succession of U.S. leaders who have predicted that the end of war in Afghanistan is in sight, despite the Taliban's ability to launch large-scale attacks and wreak chaos on major cities.
Nicholson, who will soon step down as commander of Operation Resolute Support and U.S. Forces - Afghanistan, said today that over the past three months he has seen significant progress in the peace process between the Afghan forces and the Taliban.
In June, Afghan forces and the Taliban participated in thefirst-ever ceasefiresince the war began in 2001. Nicholson said the Afghan people's response to the three-day event was "frankly overwhelming."
"This first ceasefire really unleashed the Afghan people's desire for peace ... on really a national and unprecedented scale," Nicholson told a group of defense reporters at the Pentagon.
Nicholson credited the recent progress to the Trump administration's strategy for dealing with South Asia that was launched about a year ago.
"I believe the strategy is working," he said. "Within six months, we have two peace offers on the table -- an open letter from the Taliban to the American people and [Afghan] President Ghani's peace offer.
"There will be ups and downs, there will be leap-a-heads, there will be frustrations, there will be two steps forward one step back from time to time, but the process has started and it wouldn't have happened without the South Asia strategy."
Nicholson's confident stance on operations in Afghanistan mirrors the positive assessments on Afghanistan that many U.S. leaders have made over the 17 years of war, only to see conditions deteriorate into stalemate.
In 2011, Democratic Sen. Carl Levin, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, praised Gen. David Petraeus for being "instrumental in turning the tide in Afghanistan," the Washington Post reported. Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., added that Petraeus's leadership is "turning around the war in Afghanistan."
In 2014, the Pentagon delivered a report to Congress outlining the progress in Afghanistan.
The Afghan national security forces "have done an exceptional job being in the lead in providing security for not one but two elections and put the Taliban on their heels during this fighting season," then-Pentagon Press Secretary Rear Adm. John Kirby said, citing the "Report on Progress Toward Security and Stability in Afghanistan."
"The Taliban continued to test the ANSF, but were unable to hold any significant terrain and were consistently overmatched when engaged by ANSF, sometimes enabled by coalition air and intelligence support," he said.
In July of 2017,Marine CorpsGen. Joe Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said that Afghan leaders have a new level of confidence about the future of their country.
"I haven't seen the degree of optimism in Afghanistan prior to this, [and] that includes my entire time there," said Dunford, who commanded the International Security Assistance Force and U.S. Forces Afghanistan from February 2013 to August 2014.
But as they have done in the past, the Taliban continue to demonstrate their prowess on the battlefield.
On Aug. 10, Taliban forces launcheda major assault on Ghazni, a city located within 100 miles of Kabul.
The fighting was fierce during the four-day battle. U.S.Air Forceaircraft and U.S.ArmyAH-64Apachegunships had to be called in to reinforce Afghan forces.
"There was a tough fight; it lasted about four days, and then they were driven out with higher casualties than they inflicted," Nicholson said. "They failed to take the prison, they failed to take the governor's palace, they failed to take the police station they were after, so they didn't seize their objectives.
"I acknowledge that the Taliban can launch attacks in cities. ... Do those attacks succeed in gaining and holding new ground? No."
A week after the Ghazni fight ended, Afghan President Ghani offered a second ceasefire on Aug. 19, which Nicholson said could continue until Nov. 20.
"So far we have not heard if the Taliban will accept or reject the ceasefire," Nicholson said.
Nicholson conceded that the past statements of optimism on Afghanistan that many leaders before him have expressed may have been premature.
"We certainly wanted to see this war be over many years ago," he said, adding that the long-term, U.S. presence in Afghanistan has been necessary.
"We are protecting the homeland; Al-Qaeda, Islamic state and 19 other terrorist groups are here," Nicholson said. "Our presence here is keeping pressure on them ... The Afghans are doing the fighting, they are leading the fight."
The Afghan air force is now doing over half the airstrikes in the country, Nicholson said. The U.S. train, advise and assist mission has helped to produce 45 companies of elite Afghan commandos, a number that will be doubled by next year, he added.
"So we are seeing progress in terms of the Afghan capabilities; this is not a purely U.S. or coalition fight."
-- Matthew Cox can be reached atmatthew.cox@military.com.
Matthew Cox has been a defense reporter since 1998. During his time with Military.com he covered all the services, with a close eye on Army weapons development and procurement, body armor testing, camouflage, ammunition as well as readiness and training issues. He previously worked for 12 years for Army Times. He traveled to Afghanistan and Iraq numerous times from 2002 to 2008, covering Stryker and light infantry units in combat. He also spent four years in the U.S. Army during the second half of the 1980s, serving as an infantryman in the 82nd Airborne Division.Read Full Bio
Biden is expected to use his wide-ranging address to speak to the need to end the Middle East conflict and the 17-month-old...
The Truman and Carrier Air Wing 1 will head to the Red Sea, where U.S. sailors have fought almost daily for months to down...
The powerful sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un vowed to boost the country’s nuclear war capability and take other...
Israel and Hezbollah traded strikes, a day after a massive Israeli bombardment killed nearly 500 people, sent thousands...
How to maintain and grow diversity is at issue in a trial that is entering its second week in U.S. District Court in...
From the 1983 Beirut bombing to the withdrawal from Afghanistan, the galleries usher guests through an immersive 40-plus...
The class-action suit was filed in November 2022 by the nonprofit Public Counsel law firm on behalf of 14 unhoused and...
While legislation that created presumptive conditions for Agent Orange and burn pits has helped millions, veterans exposed to...
Copayments were suspended as a result of problems caused by the Oracle Cerner electronic records system when it was...
Biden is expected to use his wide-ranging address to speak to the need to end the Middle East conflict and the 17-month-old...
The Truman and Carrier Air Wing 1 will head to the Red Sea, where U.S. sailors have fought almost daily for months to down...
The powerful sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un vowed to boost the country’s nuclear war capability and take other...
Israel and Hezbollah traded strikes, a day after a massive Israeli bombardment killed nearly 500 people, sent thousands...
Japanese Defense Minister Minoru Kihara told reporters that the Russian Il-38 plane breached Japan’s airspace above Rebun...
Visit our Customer Support center for solutions or to contact us.

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:38Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Ghazni Attack:  A fatal Intelligence Failure - The Daily Outlook Afghanistan, print and online English Newspaper
Ghazni is a strategically  important center straddling the main highway linking Kabul with the south of  the country. The attack on Ghazni is the most serious blow struck by the  Taliban since they came close to overrunning the western city of Farah in May.What objectives Taliban  pursues in Ghazni AttackTaliban intends its  terrorist activities to have an emotional impact on the target audience,  causing it to act in a manner that furthers the group’s objectives. Military  experts hold that terrorist operations generally are categorized in terms of  their associated goals. These goals traditionally are divided into five  categories: recognition, coercion, intimidation, provocation, and insurgency  support. The objective that Taliban pursue from Ghazni attack is mainly focused  on provocation aiming to force government security forces to take repressive  action against the general populace. Taliban targeted the critical  infrastructures, popular or high-profile individuals, or important facilities  for further provocations. And the terrorist group wants to demonstrate the  weakness of the Afghan government at the verge of the peace talks.What Terrorist Tactics  Uses TalibanTaliban, as a  terrorist group has used different tactics in the past including: hijackings,  kidnappings, bombings, assassinations, armed assaults, and barricade-hostage  incidents. According to the current situation they use bombings,  assassinations, and armed assaults which are less risky and generally require  less organizational capabilities. Taliban by employing these tactics tends to  accomplish the following goals: Create a climate of fear in among the civilians  through a sustained campaign of violence; it also wants to negatively affect  Peace process that sees as against its interests or its sponsors interests; and  eliminate specific individuals or groups in the province that pose threats to  them due to public influence they have among the people.Security analysts  argue that attaining the terrorist organization’s goals depends on receiving  adequate information for planning and executing an operation. They emphasis  that the Eidul Fitr ceasefire, has been miscued by the terrorist group of  Taliban; first, many of the armed Taliban came to the cities including, Kabul,  Ghazni, Heart , Mazar e Sharif and they stayed in the cities to carry out  terrorist attacks; As such, this opportunity served them to access to the  detailed information for planning and executing its attacks on Ghazni and other  major cities of Afghanistan. Also, the Taliban could access to the information on  the movements of key personnel, or the identity and vulnerabilities of critical  facilities. Security analysts insist that Afghan ANSF and especially the NDS  shall take the necessary measures to deny terrorists the critical information  that they require planning an attack, and shall implement security  countermeasures that are commensurate with the assessed level of risk.Terrorist operations  require detailed information for planning and executing an attack. The  terrorist groups spend a lot of time and money to have access to intelligence  to produce intelligence required for an attack. Though, the Eidul-Fitr short  term ceasefire was an strategic breakthrough in the Afghan long standing  conflict, it provided the Taliban a unique opportunity to have access to the  information they require for an attack in different parts of Afghanistan. In  addition, Afghan ANSF and especially the NDS failed to take the necessary  measures to track the armed Taliban who entered into the cities during the  ceasefire and remained for planning and carrying out terrorist attacks. This is  one of the causes of mounting attacks by the Taliban after the ceasefire,  causing huge human and material casualties to the Afghan people and government.  The main lesson of the short terms ceasefires to Afghanistan is that, we shall  pursue reaching a sustainable peace through different chillness and at the same  time shall not create conducive conditions to the terrorist groups to misuse  our good will and base their military offensives on such initiatives. To do  this, the NDS plays the key role to deny information to the terrorist groups.
Copyright ©2010www.outlookafghanistan.net - All Rights Reserved.

Title: Australian Defence Force | Scoop InfoPages
This InfoPage in unregistered, if this is your news pageregister Australian Defence Force for InfoPages here.
Aust Defence on behalf of the family of Terry HarchSunday,  5 August 2018,  1:12 pm | Australian Defence ForceThe Department of Defence would like to provide the following statement on behalf
of the family of Mr Harch.More >>Multinational force to the rescueSaturday, 22 September 2012,  1:13 pm | Australian Defence ForceMultinational force to the rescue More than 100 participants from 26 nations took
part in Tempest Express 21, a humanitarian assistance and disaster relief planning
activity, at the new Gallipoli Barracks Battle Simulation Centre, Brisbane, during ...More >>Country soldier’s final journey homeFriday, 14 September 2012, 10:30 am | Australian Defence ForcePrivate Nathanael Galagher, known as a son of north-west New South Wales, was farewelled
today in the country town of Pilliga. Family, friends and colleagues from the Australian
Army’s 2nd Commando Regiment gathered in the town, which lies between Narrabri ...More >>Fallen soldiers returned homeWednesday,  5 September 2012,  8:59 pm | Australian Defence ForceFive Australian soldiers killed in two separate incidents in Afghanistan last week
were returned home to their families and comrades today, at moving ceremonies at
RAAF Base Richmond in Sydney and RAAF Base Amberley in Brisbane.More >>Exercise Kakadu 2012 ships set sailTuesday,  4 September 2012, 12:53 pm | Australian Defence ForceExercise Kakadu 2012 ships set sail Fifteen ships with about 2,000 Defence personnel
from seven Pacific nations set sail from Darwin Harbour for the military training
Exercise Kakadu 12 on Sunday. Commander Australian Fleet, Rear Admiral Tim Barrett, ...More >>Employers to visit Reserve employees in East TimorMonday, 20 August 2012,  1:34 pm | Australian Defence ForceParliamentary Secretary for Defence Senator for Victoria Employers to visit Reserve
employees in East Timor Employers today leave for East Timor, to work alongside their
staff who are also Australian Defence Force (ADF) Reservists. As part of Exercise ...More >>Exercise Pitch Black draws to a closeFriday, 17 August 2012,  1:14 pm | Australian Defence ForceExercise Pitch Black 2012, Australia’s biennial air combat training activity, will
conclude today after three weeks of offensive counter air and offensive air support
operations that included large formations of multi-national aircraft over Northern ...More >>Successful rotation for SOTG comes to an endSaturday, 11 August 2012,  3:13 pm | Australian Defence ForceThe most recent Special Operations Task Group (SOTG) rotation in Afghanistan has
returned home after achieving significant success in recent months.More >>Australian soldier wounded in AfghanistanSaturday,  4 August 2012, 12:51 pm | Australian Defence ForceAn Australian Special Forces soldier has been wounded during a mission conducted
by Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) and the Special Operations Task Group (SOTG)
in Uruzgan province, Afghanistan.More >>Australian soldiers head home from Solomon IslandsFriday,  3 August 2012,  6:27 pm | Australian Defence ForceA team of approximately 85 Australian Defence Force personnel has returned home (3
August 2012) after a highly successful four-month deployment to Operation ANODE in
Solomon Islands.More >>Australian soldiers given final honourSaturday, 21 July 2012,  2:45 pm | Australian Defence ForceAustralian soldiers given final honour on 96th anniversary of the Battle of Fromelles
The Parliamentary Secretary for Defence, Senator David Feeney, today paid his respects
to nine Australian World War One soldiers at a headstone dedication ceremony in Fromelles, ...More >>Inquiry into the combat death of Private Matthew LambertWednesday, 18 July 2012,  6:24 pm | Australian Defence ForceDefence has completed an inquiry into the circumstances surrounding the death of
Private Matthew Lambert in Afghanistan on 22 August 2011.More >>Australian soldier killed in Chorah ValleyTuesday,  3 July 2012, 11:55 am | Australian Defence ForceAn Australian Special Forces soldier has been killed as a result of a small arms
engagement in the Chorah Valley, Afghanistan, yesterday afternoon.More >>RAAF Orion Provided Crucial Assistance in RescueMonday, 28 May 2012,  1:00 pm | Australian Defence ForceA Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) AP-3C Orion passing low overhead offered a new
wave of hope for 49 Solomon Islanders stranded in life rafts with no sight of land
last Saturday afternoon.More >>Soldiers wounded in action return to AustraliaThursday, 17 May 2012,  6:58 pm | Australian Defence ForceTwo of the Australian Special Forces soldiers wounded by an Improvised Explosive
Device in Afghanistan on 3 May 2012 have returned to Australia for further medical
treatment.More >>Army’s Abrams gets its first lift on board Air Force C-17ATuesday, 15 May 2012,  6:30 pm | Australian Defence ForceFor the first time, an Army M1A1 Abrams tank has been flown on board a Royal Australian
Air Force (RAAF) C-17A Globemaster III transport.More >>Chief of the Defence Force honours the fallen in BelgiumWednesday, 25 April 2012,  2:50 pm | Australian Defence ForceThe Chief of Defence Force, General David Hurley has honoured the sacrifice of Australian
service men and women during the Last Post Ceremony at the historic Menin Gate in
Belgium.More >>HMAS Perth to Visit WellingtonTuesday, 24 April 2012,  9:36 am | Australian Defence ForceThe RAN and the RNZN share a long and proud history which continues today as sailors
selflessly serve their country in our immediate region and beyond. The ANZAC forces
worked together during the Gallipoli campaign and continue to collaborate in the ...More >>HMAS Warramunga to Visit TaurangaTuesday, 24 April 2012,  9:35 am | Australian Defence ForceFresh from conducting exercises with HMNZ Ships Te Kaha and Endeavour off the coast
of Western Australia the Royal Australian Navy Guided Missile Frigate HMAS Warramunga,
will visit Tauranga for five days commencing 1000 24 April.More >>HMAS Newcastle to Visit AucklandTuesday, 24 April 2012,  9:32 am | Australian Defence ForceFresh from conducting exercises with HMNZ Ships Te Kaha and Endeavour off the coast
of Western Australia the Royal Australian Navy Guided Missile Frigate HMAS Newcastle
, will visit Auckland for five days commencing 1000 24 April.More >>next >
Sunday,  5 August 2018,  1:12 pm | Australian Defence Force
The Department of Defence would like to provide the following statement on behalf
of the family of Mr Harch.More >>
Saturday, 22 September 2012,  1:13 pm | Australian Defence Force
Multinational force to the rescue More than 100 participants from 26 nations took
part in Tempest Express 21, a humanitarian assistance and disaster relief planning
activity, at the new Gallipoli Barracks Battle Simulation Centre, Brisbane, during ...More >>
Friday, 14 September 2012, 10:30 am | Australian Defence Force
Private Nathanael Galagher, known as a son of north-west New South Wales, was farewelled
today in the country town of Pilliga. Family, friends and colleagues from the Australian
Army’s 2nd Commando Regiment gathered in the town, which lies between Narrabri ...More >>
Wednesday,  5 September 2012,  8:59 pm | Australian Defence Force
Five Australian soldiers killed in two separate incidents in Afghanistan last week
were returned home to their families and comrades today, at moving ceremonies at
RAAF Base Richmond in Sydney and RAAF Base Amberley in Brisbane.More >>
Tuesday,  4 September 2012, 12:53 pm | Australian Defence Force
Exercise Kakadu 2012 ships set sail Fifteen ships with about 2,000 Defence personnel
from seven Pacific nations set sail from Darwin Harbour for the military training
Exercise Kakadu 12 on Sunday. Commander Australian Fleet, Rear Admiral Tim Barrett, ...More >>
Monday, 20 August 2012,  1:34 pm | Australian Defence Force
Parliamentary Secretary for Defence Senator for Victoria Employers to visit Reserve
employees in East Timor Employers today leave for East Timor, to work alongside their
staff who are also Australian Defence Force (ADF) Reservists. As part of Exercise ...More >>
Friday, 17 August 2012,  1:14 pm | Australian Defence Force
Exercise Pitch Black 2012, Australia’s biennial air combat training activity, will
conclude today after three weeks of offensive counter air and offensive air support
operations that included large formations of multi-national aircraft over Northern ...More >>
Saturday, 11 August 2012,  3:13 pm | Australian Defence Force
The most recent Special Operations Task Group (SOTG) rotation in Afghanistan has
returned home after achieving significant success in recent months.More >>
Saturday,  4 August 2012, 12:51 pm | Australian Defence Force
An Australian Special Forces soldier has been wounded during a mission conducted
by Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) and the Special Operations Task Group (SOTG)
in Uruzgan province, Afghanistan.More >>
Friday,  3 August 2012,  6:27 pm | Australian Defence Force
A team of approximately 85 Australian Defence Force personnel has returned home (3
August 2012) after a highly successful four-month deployment to Operation ANODE in
Solomon Islands.More >>
Saturday, 21 July 2012,  2:45 pm | Australian Defence Force
Australian soldiers given final honour on 96th anniversary of the Battle of Fromelles
The Parliamentary Secretary for Defence, Senator David Feeney, today paid his respects
to nine Australian World War One soldiers at a headstone dedication ceremony in Fromelles, ...More >>
Wednesday, 18 July 2012,  6:24 pm | Australian Defence Force
Defence has completed an inquiry into the circumstances surrounding the death of
Private Matthew Lambert in Afghanistan on 22 August 2011.More >>
Tuesday,  3 July 2012, 11:55 am | Australian Defence Force
An Australian Special Forces soldier has been killed as a result of a small arms
engagement in the Chorah Valley, Afghanistan, yesterday afternoon.More >>
Monday, 28 May 2012,  1:00 pm | Australian Defence Force
A Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) AP-3C Orion passing low overhead offered a new
wave of hope for 49 Solomon Islanders stranded in life rafts with no sight of land
last Saturday afternoon.More >>
Thursday, 17 May 2012,  6:58 pm | Australian Defence Force
Two of the Australian Special Forces soldiers wounded by an Improvised Explosive
Device in Afghanistan on 3 May 2012 have returned to Australia for further medical
treatment.More >>
Tuesday, 15 May 2012,  6:30 pm | Australian Defence Force
For the first time, an Army M1A1 Abrams tank has been flown on board a Royal Australian
Air Force (RAAF) C-17A Globemaster III transport.More >>
Wednesday, 25 April 2012,  2:50 pm | Australian Defence Force
The Chief of Defence Force, General David Hurley has honoured the sacrifice of Australian
service men and women during the Last Post Ceremony at the historic Menin Gate in
Belgium.More >>
Tuesday, 24 April 2012,  9:36 am | Australian Defence Force
The RAN and the RNZN share a long and proud history which continues today as sailors
selflessly serve their country in our immediate region and beyond. The ANZAC forces
worked together during the Gallipoli campaign and continue to collaborate in the ...More >>
Tuesday, 24 April 2012,  9:35 am | Australian Defence Force
Fresh from conducting exercises with HMNZ Ships Te Kaha and Endeavour off the coast
of Western Australia the Royal Australian Navy Guided Missile Frigate HMAS Warramunga,
will visit Tauranga for five days commencing 1000 24 April.More >>
Tuesday, 24 April 2012,  9:32 am | Australian Defence Force
Fresh from conducting exercises with HMNZ Ships Te Kaha and Endeavour off the coast
of Western Australia the Royal Australian Navy Guided Missile Frigate HMAS Newcastle
, will visit Auckland for five days commencing 1000 24 April.More >>
next >


Title: US pursuing new Taliban strategy  – DW – 05/30/2018
The US has decided to seek "the right Taliban leadership" without waiting for Pakistan to play its role in persuading the rebels to join peace talks with the Afghan government. Anwar Iqbal reports from Washington.
US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo revealed a new strategy for Taliban negotiations at a congressional hearing earlier this week, where he also claimed that US officials and diplomats were "being treated badly" in Pakistan.
"The effort (is) to apply all elements of the United States' government pressure, so that the Taliban will come to the negotiating table," he told the House Foreign Affairs Committee. "Now we need to find the right leadership inside the Taliban to participate in those discussions."
The two statements – about mistreatment of diplomats and going ahead with the Afghan peace process without Pakistan – confirm that relations between the two allies are at their lowest ebb.
Marvin Weinbaum, a scholar of South Asian affairs in Washington, recalled that earlier this month, both the US and Pakistan also imposed strict travel restrictions on each other's diplomats.
"What strikes me most is that both sides are taking actions toward resident diplomats in a way usually reserved for a country's enemies, not its partners," he told DW.
Read more:
US watches Pakistan's democratic transition with caution
Will Iran try to tie down the US in Afghanistan?
A new power arrangement
But what Secretary Pompeo told the House committee goes beyond diplomatic tensions and underlines Washington's need to find a peaceful solution in Afghanistan before public pressure in the US against this unpopular war forces the Trump administration to pull out from the strife-torn country.
Pompeo said that once the goal of finding the right Taliban leadership is achieved, the US administration will bring "lots of different groups" together to form the next power structure in Afghanistan. To bring them on the table, the Trump will assure each of these ethnic and tribal groups that their interests will be protected in the new power arrangement in Afghanistan, he said.
This was one of those rare statements in which a senior US official did not emphasise Pakistan's role in supplementing US efforts for bringing peace and stability to Afghanistan.
But a State Department spokesperson, when contacted by DW, said the US still wants Pakistan to "take irreversible and decisive actions to eliminate any and all sanctuaries on its territory, from which terrorists are able to mount attacks in Afghanistan and the region."
Read more:
Has Trump's Afghanistan policy destabilized South Asia even more?
China presses Afghanistan-Pakistan rapprochement
While Pakistanis agree in principle with the US position, they point out that they have already lost more than 50,000 civilians and soldiers in the fight against terrorism and they do not want to jump into yet another unending war.
They argue that sooner or later, the Americans will leave Afghanistan and they will be left alone to face the consequences. Both in public statements and private conversations with their American counterparts, Pakistanis insist that there's no military solution to the Afghan conflict.
US officials also say that there's no military solution but they argue that this is why they want Pakistan to work with US and Afghan forces to make the Taliban realize that they too cannot win this war.
"We can see that there is not a military solution to achieving the stability and peace in Afghanistan," Pompeo said, adding that this is why Washington wants to pressurize the Taliban into cooperating with international efforts for bringing peace to the war-ravaged country.
Pompeo noted that Afghan President Ashraf Ghani was willing to participate in the peace talks with the Taliban and the next step would be to find the right Taliban leadership, which would work with the government in Kabul.
"We have lots of different groups that need to view being part of the solution" and they need to be included in this process as well, Pompeo added.
Read more:
Kabul hit by heavy explosions and gunfire
Afghanistan government air raid in April killed 30 children, UN says
Afghan President Ashraf Ghani offers Taliban peace talks and political recognition
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
Other options
Pakistan's relations with the US, already strained, have rapidly deteriorated under the Trump administration, which has stopped all military assistance to the country over its alleged links with the Haqqani network. And recently, the administration also distributed a questionnaire among senior US lawmakers, asking them how they want Washington to deal with Islamabad, once a strong ally in the war against terror.
"Relations between the United States and Pakistan can be challenging at times," said the State Department spokesperson. "We engage on a daily basis with Pakistan in an effort to foster a strong strategic relationship."
But such a relationship must be based on "our many shared interests, maintaining a continuous and intensive dialogue through both civilian and military channels," the US official added.
"Both Pakistan and the United States have benefitted greatly in the past from our relationship, and we hope that it has a bright future as well," said the spokesperson, adding that to ensure this, Pakistan must take a decisive action against terrorists.
Michael Kugelman, another US expert on South Asian affairs, noted that the relationship between the US and Pakistan has struggled and suffered in a big way ever since President Trump announced his new South Asia strategy last August.
"And it will make it all the more difficult for the two sides to recapture the requisite trust and goodwill to move forward and bring a semblance of stability to the bilateral relationship," he told DW.
Washington's effort to find a solution in Afghanistan without involving Pakistan also endorses this view, indicating that the Trump administration does not see its relations with Islamabad improving any time soon. And it wants Pakistan to realize that while its support is important, Washington has other options too.
Read more:'China and Russia want US out of Afghanistan'

Title: How would Washington deal with 'PM Imran Khan'? – DW – 06/21/2018
Pakistani politician Imran Khan could become the country's next premier after the July 25 vote, but his stance against the US' role in Afghanistan could be a hurdle in the Trump administration's dealings with Islamabad.
Pakistani politician Imran Khanis known in the US as a philanthropist who operates a world-class charity hospital in his country. He is also admired as a sportsman whose stunning looks charmed many Western women. But he is yet to make an impact as a politician in Washington.
When DW asked US officials whether they would like to work with Khan if he became Pakistan's prime minister after the July 25 general election, they gave a smooth, diplomatic response, which says all without saying much.
"The US government supports a free and fair vote by the Pakistani people, and stands ready to partner with the leadership they choose to work on a shared agenda for regional peace and prosperity," said a State Department spokesperson.
Read more:US watches Pakistan's democratic transition with caution
The statement says a lot about the US position on Khan, who heads the popular Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf (PTI, Movement for Justice) party.
Khan is not a Bhutto or a Sharif that Washington has dealt with and knows how to cope with in a particular situation. But analysts say he will have to work with Washington to prevent militant attacks in both Afghanistan and India.
Read more:Pakistan has moved beyond Benazir Bhutto

Real power-wielders in Pakistan
In private conversations, former US diplomats and think-tank experts often recall a statement in which the cricketer-turned-politician threatened to shoot down any US drone that hits a target inside Pakistan if he was elected to power.
Khan's statement scared Pakistan's powerful military establishment as well. The generals feared that if elected, Khan could further strain Pakistan's already tense relations with the US.
But over the years, Khan has worked on polishing his statements and tries not to say something that he would later regret. He does not always succeed, as his recent anti-West statements show.
Read more:Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa — a difficult province to govern
The State Department, however, does not want to appear to be opposing a popular Pakistani politician — someone who is one of the favorites to win the next election.
But the State Department retains the key US demand of maintaining regional peace and prosperity.
"For the US, the idea of a Prime Minister Imran Khan may be unsettling, given how he and his party have been stridently anti-American in tone and messaging in ways that the PML-N (Pakistan Muslim League of former PM Nawaz Sharif) have not been," Michael Kugelman, an expert of South Asian affairs at the Woodrow Wilson Center for Scholars in Washington, told DW.
Kugelman also said the State Department understands the role of the military in Pakistani politics.
"At the same time, given that the Pakistani military has the final — and often times first — say in policy toward the US and given that the military is very keen on salvaging the US-Pakistan relationship, I wouldn't be surprised if a [possible] PTI-led government were to tone down its anti-American messaging and project a more conciliatory position toward Washington, at least initially," he said.
This is a hope that the State Department, obviously, shares with him but is unwilling to say so publicly.
Earlier this month, when Washington felt the need to solicit Pakistan's support for a temporary ceasefire in Afghanistan, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo did not call the Pakistani prime minister, foreign minister or even the president; instead, he telephoned the country's army chief, General Qamar Javed Bajwa. And the general not only did what Washington wanted, he also flew over to Kabul to discuss the possibilities of a durable peace with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani.
Read more:
Will former wife's 'tell-all' book hurt Imran Khan in upcoming Pakistan election?
Why ousted Pakistani PM Nawaz Sharif turned against the powerful military
Pakistan: One step forward, two steps back

Working with the US
Diplomatic observers in Washington say that the Trump administration now wants Islamabad to use its influence on the Taliban, particularly on the militant Haqqani network, to make them talk to Kabul.
So there's little surprise that Pakistan experts in Washington, both in the official and unofficial circles, believe that the army can also make Khan behave.
"The trend lines for US-Pakistan relations are not good no matter what party takes over the next Pakistani government. But I don't think a PTI-led government would necessarily make it any worse," said Kugelman, underlining another key point: the new government in Pakistan — no matter who heads it — will have to work hard to rebuild the once-close relationship with Washington.
Hussain Haqqani, a former Pakistani ambassador to the US, and now a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington, says that the US would deal with Khan as "they have with every Pakistani leader, even those elected amid anti-American rhetoric."
"Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto portrayed himself as anti-American and yet went to see President Richard Nixon before taking office, to explain that he wanted US blessings even though he was seen as an America baiter," Haqqani told DW, referring to a popular Pakistani prime minister who was hanged by military dictator General Zia-ul-Haq in 1979.
Haqqani, who has authored a book on the history of US-Pakistan relations, recalled that in 1990, Nawaz Sharif did the same in his first term as prime minister and "Imran Khan is likely to be no different."
Read more:Imran Khan: Nawaz Sharif's ouster 'strengthens Pakistani democracy'
He will tone down his anti-US rhetoric and seek Washington's cooperation in both domestic and external issues, said Haqqani.
Haqqani, however, warned that this time, the Americans may not be as keen to oblige as they did in the past. "The level of American interest in and commitment to Pakistan has declined significantly from what it was in the past," he said.
And the level of support from both external and internal players will determine how long an inning Imran Khan plays on this new pitch, if he is elected.
Read more:Husain Haqqani: 'Pakistani military fears ethno-linguistic identities'

Title: Analysis: The War In Afghanistan Isn’t a Hopeless Stalemate - Government Executive
A U.S. Army OH-58 Kiowa Helicopter flies low over 2nd Platoon, Company B, 3rd Battalion, 187th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Brigade “Rakkasans,” 101st Airborne Division (Air Assault), during a patrol in Khowst Province, Afghanistan, Jan. 13, 2013.Spc. Alex Kirk Amen/Army file photo

Stay Connected
Robert M. Cassidy,The Conversation
The war in Afghanistan has become so protracted that it warrants the epithet the “Groundhog Day War.”
Fighting has gone on for nearly 17 years, with U.S. troops in Afghanistan seven years longer than the Soviets were.
The U.S. leadership claims to have a strategy for victory even as warm weather brings in yet another “fighting season” andnew rounds of deadly violence in Kabul.
Sixteen years and seven months of violence, loss, sacrifice and significant investment, without victory, is alarming – but is it without hope?
As ascholar of Afghanistan and strategyand a soldier who has served four tours in the country, I’d like to explore both the apparent stalemate and the reasons for harboring hope of an eventual resolution.
The ‘Groundhog War’
In terms of fighting battles and taking ground, momentum in the war in Afghanistan has ebbed back and forth from the coalition formed by the U.S., NATO and Afghan troops to the Islamist insurgents who call themselves the Taliban, or “the students.”
The two sides see gains and losses each year, until colder weather diminishes their ability to fight until the following spring. As the weather warms up, the pattern repeats itself. This story is told by 10 years of U.S. Department of Defense reports on Afghanistan that are required every six months by Congress.
Of course, it’s impossible to identify simple reasons for the failure to win something as complex as a war. Early on, the coalition and its Afghan partners lacked a strategy and a willingness to help rebuild the country after decades of war among Afghans, Russians, the Mujihadeen – and ultimately the Taliban – made Afghanistan one of the most damaged and destitute countries on the planet.
The Bush administration reviled the notion of nation-building, focusing instead on targeting individuals for killing and capturing. For the first several years, the U.S. relied too heavily on warlords, tolerated venal Afghan leadership and employed air power indiscriminately, thus inadvertently killing civilians. All of this aggrieved many Afghans.
Still, none of those missteps were decisive. Rather, I would argue that the war has dragged on for one overarching reason – Pakistan’s support for the Taliban.
The proof is in years of those Department of Defense reports.
A place to run and hide
The November 2013 report stated that Pakistan provides physical sanctuary to the Taliban leadership and that sanctuary is “a major factor preventing their decisive defeat.” It reported, Taliban “insurgents that attack Coalition forces continue to operate from Pakistan.” What’s more, most of the materials required to sustain the conflict, and “emanating from Pakistan,” remained significant.
Nothing had changed three years later when, at the end of 2016, yet another report noted that the Taliban – including the senior leadership of the lethal Haqqani clan that excels at high-profile terrorist attacks – had retainedsanctuary inside Pakistan.
TheDecember 2017 report affirmed“the externally supported Haqqani Network remains the greatest threat to Afghan, U.S., and Coalition forces.”
In testimony before the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee,General Joe Votel, the commander of U.S. Central Commandexpressed concerns about the Haqqani network, saying it “poses the greatest threat to Coalition forces operating in Afghanistan.”
Of course, Pakistan’ssecurity establishment consistently and eloquently denies all this.
Too much tactics
A corollary explanation for the stalemate is America’s tendency to focus on strikes and operations without necessarily linking those operations to the ultimate desired outcome: peace and stability.
This was the case 30 years ago when the U.S. wassupporting the Mujahideenduring the Soviet-Afghan War, and it was the case withRumsfeld’s Pentagonfrom the beginning years of the war in Afghanistan.
After the ill-conceived invasion of Iraq, Afghanistan turned into a secondary and underresourced effort for the U.S. with a limited number of special operations and conventional forces conducting strikes and raids to kill or capture key leaders. There was a dearth of troops and resources committed to address the challenge of stabilizing the country.
The biannual defense department reports tell this story too. They tend to quantify the number of tactical actions – rather than assessing their effectiveness. While strikes that kill or capture enemy leaders do disrupt and damage the Taliban, their effects are fleeting, not decisive. They do not bring strategic momentum.
Not hopeless
However, with the change in policy last August, there is cause for hope.
The stated policy of the current administration is towin in Afghanistan. This contrasts to the previous policy, which was simplynot to lose.
But what would winning look like?
A win, according to a definition worked out during my tours as an adviser to senior military leaders, would be a durable Afghan state, with the government, the security forces and the population aligned against a marginalized Taliban.
Another reason for hope is that this new strategy is based on conditions on the ground being met, notarbitrary timelines. The strategy calls for an increase of about 3,500 U.S. forces – to a total of over 14,000 – to advise and assist the Afghan security forces. NATO countries are also contributing additional troops, bringing the total number of Coalition troops in Afghanistan tomore than 21,000.
This modest increase in troops isn’t enough to break the strategic stalemate. However, it will support growing the Afghan Special Security Forces, building the capacity of the Afghan Air Force and improving the other security forces by employing more advisers with tactical units that do the fighting. That should allow the Afghan security forces to win more battles against the Taliban and gather marked operational momentum that will complement efforts to alter Pakistan’s harmful strategic proclivities.
Perhaps most notably, thenew strategy avowsthat “we must see fundamental changes in the way Pakistan deals with terrorist safe-havens in its territory” for the strategy to gain momentum.
Of course, just stating that there is a new strategy does not necessarily mean the strategy is working. In mid-January 2018, America’s U.N. ambassador, Nikki Haley, stated that Afghanistanpeace talks are closer than ever before. Days later, the Haqqani networkattacked the Kabul Intercontinental Hotel, killing at least 30 people. Less than a week later, the Haqqani network murdered more than 100 people bydetonating an explosive-laden ambulancein a crowded section of Kabul. Two morecomplexsuicide attacksfollowed in April. And in early May, Islamist militants attacked a voter registration site in Khost Province, killing over 17 and wounding more than 30. Khost isnext to the Haqqani sanctuary in Pakistan.
Since 9/11, the United States has explicitly stipulated that Pakistan must cease support to extremist and terrorist groups. Diplomacy andUS$33 billion in aid since 2002have not brought a change in Pakistan’s conduct. Some have suggested thatwithholding aid from Pakistanis a step in the right direction. Withholding funds is not nearly good enough to compel accountability, nor to punish Pakistan for years of odious actions. Pakistan has not stopped its support of terrorists and insurgents in Afghanistan in any fundamental way. It is time to consider responding with punitive, lethal measures aimed at institutions in Pakistan that directly advise and fund the Taliban and the Haqqani network.
Some may wonder why it’s necessary to persist in this war – and not just bring the U.S. involvement in it to an end.
Practically speaking, Afghanistan represents an excellent base for combating Islamist terrorists in that region of the world.


But there is also an ethical argument for seeing the war through to a successful end. Afghanistan has been the good war of the post-9/11 wars. The United States went to war there for the right reasons – defeating al-Qaida, the perpetrators of the 9/11 attacks, and removing the Taliban regime that provided sanctuary to al-Qaida. Although imperfectly carried out, the coalition also attempted to fight a just war by avoiding the killing of civilians. It would be fair to argue that it is a moral imperative that the U.S. not quit on a commitment to its Afghan allies in a war against externally directed murderous Islamists.
This article was originally published onThe Conversation. Read theoriginal article.
NEXT STORY:Trump’s Untested Authority to Revoke Security Clearances
Help us tailor content specifically for you:

Title: John Mccain: Latest News, Photos and Videos on John Mccain | ABPLive


Title: Taliban Demand Swap of Haqqani Member, Others for Western Hostages
Print
The Afghan Taliban is demanding freedom for a member of the militant Haqqani network along with other insurgent prisoners in exchange for the release of an American professor and his Australian colleague who were kidnapped two years ago, officials revealed Tuesday.
Kevin King, 60, and Timothy Weeks, 48, from Australia were teaching at Kabul's American University of Afghanistan (AUAF) before gunmen took them hostage near the campus in August 2016.
“We believe that they were kidnapped by the Haqqani network, and the reason we believe that is because the abductors did make a demand after they were kidnapped for the release of one of the Haqqani family members who is being held by the Afghan government,” said Kenneth Holland, the president of the AUAF.
Holland was apparently referring to death row prisoner Annas Haqqani, who is the youngest son of Jalaluuddin Haqqani, founder of the Haqqani network. The United States has declared the network a global terrorist.
Holland spoke to reporters in Kabul in connection with the second anniversary of the abduction of King and Weeks. He again called for the insurgents to immediately release his two English professors.
Holland said his university has seen some videos made by the captors but other than that, they have very little information about where King and Weeks are being held and whether they are in Afghanistan or some other country.
“Their health is deteriorating and their lives are in danger. They do not have access to medical treatment, and they are being held in a very cruel and inhuman manner,” Holland noted without further elaboration. “So, we ask the captors immediately to release these two gentlemen and to let them return to their loved ones, let them go back to their homes. This is the moral thing to do. This is the right thing to do under Islam ... to release these two innocent individuals.”
Holland said the AUAF is working closely with Afghan, U.S. and Australian governments to secure the freedom of King and Weeks. He explained the kidnappers have not asked for any ransom money, and the university has no influence over the Afghan government to secure a prisoner exchange deal.
$1 million reward
Holland noted that he discussed the prisoner exchange issue with President Ashraf Ghani and understood the compulsions facing the Afghan government on the matter.
“Basically, these prisoners are terrorists. They were charged with very serious crimes, including murder. They were convicted of those crimes, and they were sentenced to death. I think the Afghan people are demanding justice because they are the victims of these terrorist acts,” Holland said.
The U.S. has posted a $1 million reward for any information leading to the safe recovery of King.
Just weeks after the kidnapping incident, heavily armed militants attacked the AUAF campus. The raid killed 15 people, including students, professors and security personnel.
The U.S. government has since provided funds to upgrade the security of the university where international staff is still undertaking teaching jobs, though they are no longer allowed to live off campus as they did before, Holland said.
In October 2017, the Taliban released a video message from the two Western hostages, stating King's deteriorating health condition required urgent and better medical treatment for him. The Islamist insurgency at the time called for acceptance of its demands for the safe release of King and Weeks.
In an earlier video message from the hostages, both men urged U.S. President Donald Trump and the Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull to negotiate their freedom with the Taliban.
The Taliban has repeatedly said they have forwarded their demands to relevant officials but it had never revealed the identity of prisoners they want in exchange for the two hostages.While responding to the Taliban video at the time, U.S. officials said the administration was committed to seeing its citizens returned safely to their families and that the department worked closely with agencies across the government to do so. They also urged the kidnappers to swiftly release the hostages.



Title: No title found


Title: No title found
