Title: No title found


Title: Trump’s Strategy in Afghanistan: The Beginning of an Indefinite End – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
Nearly a year after the strategy was introduced, the outcomes are inconclusive.
As we approach the one year anniversary of U.S. President Donald Trump’s unveiling of his South Asia strategy in August, it’s worth reflecting on the policy’s outcomes to date. The outcomes remain inconclusive and the verdict on the policy remains divided. While General John W. Nicholson, the Commander of NATO’s Operation Resolute Support chose to refer to the current U.S. strategy in Afghanistan as “talking and fighting,” U.S. Defence Secretary James Mattis explained the situation in Afghanistan as the “co-existence of violence and progress.”
One pillar of Trump’s strategy in Afghanistan was“the integration of all instruments of American power-diplomatic, economic, and military- toward a successful outcome.” However, in the same speech, Trump also put forth a high-on-military, low-on-diplomacy strategy bysaying thata political settlement could be considered “after an effective military effort.” While “attacking our enemies, obliterating ISIS, crushing al Qaeda, preventing the Taliban from taking over Afghanistan, and stopping mass terror acts against America”were seenas the parameters of a successful outcome, the specifics of what constituted this seemingly open-ended and condition-based “victory” were not clearly defined. They have remained indefinite since.
Since Trump announced his South Asia strategy, the U.S. troop presence in Afghanistan is said to haverisen to 15,000despite the lack of specific official data in this regard. However, thenumber of civilian casualtiesin the first three months of 2018 are as high as the same period in 2016 and 2017. In addition, 1,500 casualties wereattributed toanti-government elements, a 6 percent rise as compared to the same period in 2017. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s “unconditional peace proposal” in February to the Taliban — including a ceasefire, legitimate recognition of the Taliban as a political group, scope for new elections and a constitutional review — was believed to be receiving some consideration from the Taliban, despite the uncanny quiet from their end.
The Taliban’s announcement of its spring offensive in April 2018 added much credibility to doubts about the Taliban’s non-responsiveness to the proposal, at least in the immediate period. Also, more recently, the Taliban leader Sheikh Haibatullah Akhunzada marking the end of Ramadan,stated thatAfghanistan’s salvation lay in the departure of American and other occupying forces and if America wants peace, it must be willing to negotiate directly with the Taliban. Taliban’s unwillingness to engage with the Afghan government throws a wrench into U.S. efforts to push the Taliban and the Afghan government toward reconciliation with a supporting role for itself. Quite interestingly, Nicholson in a recent NATO Press Conferencestated that“the objective of the U.S. South Asia strategy has been reconciliation.”
Nicholson on May 30,stated that80 percent of Taliban attacks had been defeated or the Taliban failed to take control, and the remaining 20 percent of successful attacks were defeated in a time-frame that ranged from a few hours to 10 days. He has alsoclaimed thatthe Taliban “has not sought to gain and hold new ground.” However,according to  the Long War Journal, 41 districts in Afghanistan remain under Taliban control while 201 districts remain contested, placing Taliban controlled and contested territory atapproximately 60 percent.
As recent as the announcement of the ceasefire on June 9,the Taliban overran the Kohistan districtin Faryab province that has remained contested for a year.According to local sources, the Taliban has increased its deadly attacks against Afghan forces since the announcement of the ceasefire which in view of the current capability and capacity deficit of the Afghan forces, further worsens the security and governance situation. Contrary to  Nicholson, the Ministry of Interior in Afghanistan maintains that theTaliban remains offensiveon multiple fronts. In this context, it remains to be seen ifLt. General Austin Scott Millerwhose name is being proposed as the replacement for Nicholson, will bring any change on the ground. Nevertheless, the evolving scenario in Afghanistan and the major stakeholders’ approach towards thepeace process overlooks the issue of the protection of civilians.
The counterterrorism campaign against the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) and the remnants of al Qaeda has been another important pillar of Trump’s strategy in Afghanistan. While the U.S. military placed the number of ISKP fighters in Afghanistan atapproximately 700 in April 2017, Afghan officialsestimated the number to be 1,500. However, the number of ISKP attacks has seen a spike since the announcement of the strategy. These include theOctober 2017 attack on a Shia mosquethat killed 56 and wounded 55; theDecember 2017 attack on a Shia cultural centerin Kabul that killed 41 and injured 80; the doublesuicide bombing in April 2018that killed 10 journalists; theApril 2018 bombing at election centers in Kabul and Baghlanthat killed nearly in 60 people in total, and the recent attack on the Ministry of Interior in May 2018.
The recurrent spate of attacks by the ISKP has indicated that the group, besides sustaining itself, is now capable of carrying out high-profile attacks against the Afghan state. In the period since the announcement of the ceasefire by the Afghan government, the U.S. is believed to haveintensified its fight against ISKPin Afghanistan byshifting the focus of its aerial surveillance toISKP and al Qaeda. Inherent in the implementation of the military dynamic of Trump’s South Asia strategy had been theremoval of restrictions on the use of air powermaking it easier for on-ground commanders to use air power “as they see fit.” Thus, it remains to be seen if the recent announcement of an intensification of the use of air power against the ISKP and al Qaeda would yield any dividends.
More than 17 years after U.S. forces entered Afghanistan, many envisioned endgames have come and gone but the prospects for peace and stability remain as elusive as ever. What transpires in the Washington, D.C., beltway regarding Afghanistan not only impacts the individual strategies of major players like India, Pakistan, China, Russia, and Iran but also the dynamics of amity and enmity among them.
In the case of both India and Pakistan, what Washington expects each of these countries to do, and what each of these countries intend to and are willing to do in Afghanistan are important determinants of the shape of things to come.Add to this India-Pakistan enmity and its fallout in the Afghan theater, irrespective of American designs. Meanwhile, China’s inroads into Afghanistan not only in the politico-economic but possibly into themilitary domainas well, with or without Pakistan, are a significant development for the future of Afghanistan. Moreover, given the increasing tensions in Washington’s dynamic with Moscow and Tehran, the evolving nature ofRussia’sandIran’s movesin Afghanistan, most visible in their respective outreach to the Taliban, adds to the complexity of the geopolitics unfolding in Afghanistan.
Monish Tourangbam is an Assistant Professor at the Department of Geopolitics and International Relations, Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), India
Nandita Palrecha is a graduate student of Conflict Resolution at Georgetown University, Washington D.C.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: Taliban Resumption of Fighting Should Not Bury Afghanistan's Peace Process
By Sudha Ramachandran
June 26, 2018, the CACI Analyst
A day after Taliban fighters stunned the world with photographs of themselves embracing and celebrating Eid with personnel of the Afghan security forces, the Taliban leadership announced its decision not to extend the ceasefire. This dashed the hopes of millions of Afghans who were looking forward to a respite from the war. While the Taliban’s refusal to extend the ceasefire is disappointing, it is not the end of the road for the peace process. In recent months, Afghanistan has witnessed powerful demonstrations calling on the government and the Taliban to end the fighting. President Ashraf Ghani must draw on these peace constituencies to keep the peace process alive.





BACKGROUND:Afghanistan has seen unprecedented violence this year – even supposedly tightly guarded neighborhoods in Kabul have come under repeated attack from the Taliban and its affiliated Haqqani Network, as well as the Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP), the Afghan branch of the terrorist organization known as the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).
Under these circumstances, President Ghani offered the Taliban “unconditional talks” on February 28, offering the Taliban recognition as a political party, a ceasefire, an exchange of prisoners, and permission to set up an office in Kabul.
Unlike in the past, the Taliban did not reject the offer immediately. They remained silent for several weeks, which analysts attributed to ongoing discussions within the group on whether or not to accept Ghani’s olive branch. In late April, while announcing the start of their annual “spring offensive,” the Taliban finally rejected the government’s offer to hold talks, describing it as a “conspiracy” to divert public attention “from the illegitimate foreign occupation of the country.”
Yet Ghani announced a unilateral ceasefire on June 7, coinciding with the end of the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan. His offer excluded other militant groups, such as ISKP. This time the Taliban announced a three-day truce against the Afghan police and soldiers, for the first time since their ouster from power in late 2001. Their fighters, however, would continue their attacks on the U.S.-led troops in Afghanistan.
The first day of the Taliban’s ceasefire saw unprecedented scenes of Eid celebrations in Afghanistan, with Taliban fighters embracing Afghan soldiers and taking selfies with civilians. On the second day, Ghani announced that his government would extend the ceasefire for an additional 10 days. However, later the same day, a suicide attack on a gathering of civilians, security forces and Taliban militants at an Eid celebration in Nangarhar killed at least 25 people. On the final day of the Taliban’s three-day truce, another suicide attack in Nangarhar killed fifteen people and injured 45. Both attacks have been attributed to ISKP.
Within hours of the second attack, the Taliban announced that they would not extend the ceasefire. “Our fighters will now resume their operations across the country against the foreign invaders and their internal puppets,” its spokesperson said.
IMPLICATIONS:Those skeptical of a political and negotiated solution to the Afghan conflict will argue that the Taliban reaffirmed their commitment to violence by ending the ceasefire even before it could take root. Indeed, the Taliban carried out a major attack on the security forces just hours before their ceasefire took effect and ended it at the first sign of trouble.
Still, the ceasefire was a giant step for the Taliban, which have been in a state of continuous combat throughout the 24 years since their emergence. Consequently, upholding a ceasefire, albeit for a very short period, was hugely significant and perhaps even confusing for the organization. After the suicide attacks at Nangarhar, the Taliban slipped into their default mode, i.e. fighting. The Taliban leadership likely decided to end the truce fearing a revolt from commanders who opposed the ceasefire in the first place.
Expecting the Taliban to participate in talks or even extend the ceasefire at the present juncture is unrealistic; they are currently in a resurgent mode and gaining ground, and probably believe that victory is possible on the battlefield and within its grasp. A ceasefire offer from the government will likely be more productive when the Taliban are on the defensive.
Although those in the Afghan government and the international community who favor talks with the Taliban will be disappointed with their failure to extend the truce, this is not the end of the road. A peace process is a long and arduous process with periods of strife punctuated by ceasefires. The Taliban’s announcement of a ceasefire was a breakthrough, and they could become more amenable to such ceasefires, perhaps for longer periods, in the future.
Several factors, foreign and domestic, seemingly contributed to the ceasefire. Pakistani media has claimed that Pakistan and China “played a key role in brokering the ceasefire deal.” Although none of the main actors in the conflict has confirmed these claims, China has facilitated talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban as well as between Pakistan and Afghanistan. In December last year, the Chinese, Pakistani and Afghan governments jointly called on the Taliban to engage in talks. Ghani’s offer followed soon thereafter. If the Pakistani media reports are true, the ceasefires were the first tangible results of China’s efforts as a peace broker in Afghanistan.
U.S. President Donald Trump’s suspension of US$ 900 million in security aid to Pakistan earlier this year could also have prompted the Pakistani military to nudge the Taliban to announce the ceasefire, so that the U.S. would resume the aid. Despite their different approaches, there is scope for the U.S. and China to coordinate their efforts in Afghanistan.
International conflict resolution efforts are rarely successful in the absence of a favorable domestic situation, and growing public sentiment in favor of peace also pushed the Afghan government and the Taliban to announce ceasefires. In recent months, Afghanistan has witnessed scores of street demonstrations critical of both the Ghani government and the Taliban, and demanding peace. Indeed, Helmand province, often described as the Taliban’s “southern heartland,” has been the epicenter of powerful protests. Activists even marched from Helmand to Kabul to rally support for their cause.
Several parliamentarians have accused Ghani of announcing the ceasefire without consulting them.Amrullah Saleh, theformer chief of theNational Directorate of Security (NDS) and a strong critic of Ghani, opposed the ceasefire offer as it would enable Talibanfighters to infiltrate cities for future attacks. If this proves correct in the coming weeks, Ghani’s critics will stand vindicated and will weaken Ghani’s already slipping hold on power.
The recent experience will likely prompt internal contradictions also within the Taliban, whose leadership was seemingly caught off-guard by the hunger for normalcy among its rank and file. The bonhomie between Taliban fighters, security forces and civilians has reportedly annoyed the leadership. For many Taliban fighters, the recent ceasefire was an eye-opener – they experienced “peace” and the joys of civilian life for the first time. This could weaken the grip of hardliners within the Taliban.
Since early 2015, clashes between the Taliban and the ISKP have grown in frequency and ferocity. Although the ISKP was initially able to win over a few disgruntled Taliban commanders and fighters, gaining ground in Nangarhar and Farah provinces, the Taliban has since dislodged the ISKP from Farah and confined it to a few districts in Nangarhar. However, the ISKP has continued to carry out high-profile attacks in Kabul, a matter of serious concern to the Taliban as this could eat into their support from friendly foreign governments and intelligence agencies funding Islamist extremism. Eliminating the ISKP is therefore a priority for both the Taliban and the Afghan government. The two ISKP attacks during the recent ceasefire, killing both Taliban fighters and Afghan security forces, reminded the government and the Taliban that they share a common enemy, which opens space for future collaboration.
CONCLUSIONS:The recent ceasefires provide useful insights into the Afghan conflict. The Taliban have signaled that they are not averse to ceasefires per se, and that a better-timed government initiative could persuade them to reciprocate. External actors can at best support a ceasefire and talks; requiring a better co-ordination of external efforts. Yet favorable domestic conditions are key to building a sustainable peace. The recent experience underscores the role that the Afghan public can play in pushing the conflicting actors to announce a ceasefire. It shows the importance of strategically building peace constituencies among the masses as well as the usefulness of a bottom-up approach to peacebuilding.
Although disappointing, the Taliban’s refusal to extend the ceasefire does not spell the end of the peace process. The Ghani government should persist with its efforts to get the Taliban to the negotiating table. The recent ceasefires have likely incentivized changes within the Taliban. Many of its fighters, who participated in the Eid celebrations, seemed weary of the endless fighting and keen to return to civilian life. Far from being a blunder, Ghani’s ceasefire has opened up space for a peace process in Afghanistan.
AUTHOR’S BIO:Dr. Sudha Ramachandran is an independent researcher and journalist based in India. She writes on South Asian political and security issues. Her articles have been published in Asia Times Online, The Diplomat, China Brief, etc. She can be contacted atThis email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it..
Image source: By:DFID-UK Department for International Development (Afghan President Ashraf Ghani) via Wikimedia Commons,accessed on 6.26. 2018




Silk Road PaperS. Frederick Starr,U.S. Policy in Central Asia through Central Asian Eyes, May 2023.
AnalysisSvante E. Cornell, "Promise and Peril in the Caucasus," AFPC Insights, March 30, 2023.
OpedS. Frederick Starr,Putin's War In Ukraine and the Crimean War), 19fourtyfive, January 2, 2023
OpedS. Frederick Starr,Russia Needs Its Own Charles de Gaulle,  Foreign Policy, July 21, 2022.
Silk Road PaperS. Frederick Starr,Rethinking Greater Central Asia: American and Western Stakes in the Region and How to Advance Them, June 2022
OpedSvante E. Cornell & Albert Barro,With referendum, Kazakh President pushes for reforms, Euractiv, June 3, 2022.
OpedSvante E. CornellRussia's Southern Neighbors Take a Stand, The Hill, May 6, 2022.
Silk Road PaperJohan Engvall,Between Bandits and Bureaucrats: 30 Years of Parliamentary Development in Kyrgyzstan, January 2022.
OpedSvante E. Cornell,No, The War in Ukraine is not about NATO, The Hill, March 9, 2022.
AnalysisSvante E. Cornell,Kazakhstan’s Crisis Calls for a Central Asia Policy Reboot, The National Interest, January 34, 2022.
BookS. Frederick Starr and Svante E. Cornell,Strong and Unique: Three Decades of U.S.-Kazakhstan Partnership, Central Asia-Caucasus Institute, December 2021.
Silk Road PaperSvante E. Cornell, S. Frederick Starr & Albert Barro,Political and Economic Reforms in Kazakhstan Under President Tokayev, November 2021.
The Central Asia-Caucasus Analyst is a biweekly publication of the Central Asia-Caucasus Institute & Silk Road Studies Program, a Joint Transatlantic Research and Policy Center affiliated with the American Foreign Policy Council, Washington DC., and the Institute for Security and Development Policy, Stockholm. For 15 years, the Analyst has brought cutting edge analysis of the region geared toward a practitioner audience.
Sign up for upcoming events, latest news and articles from the CACI Analyst
Newsletter

Title: Union Home Ministry bans offshoots of al-Qaeda, ISIS under anti-terror law – India TV
North Block- File photo
The Central government on Thursday banned new offshoots of the al-Qaeda and the Islamic State (IS) under the anti-terror Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.
According to an official order, both Al-Qaeda in Indian Subcontinent (AQIS) and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Sham-Khorasan (ISIS-K) (an Afghanistan-based affiliate of IS), have been declared unlawful by the Union Home Ministry.
These organisations were found to be radicalising Indian youths for “global jihad” and encouraging terror acts on Indian interests, it said.
The ISIS-K is also known as Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP)/ISIS Wilayat Khorasan, the order said.
The AQIS is a terrorist organisation that has committed acts of terrorism in the neighbouring countries and had been promoting and encouraging terror acts on Indian interests in the Indian subcontinent, the order said. It has been attempting radicalisation and recruitment of youths from India, the order said.
The ISKP/ISIS Wilayat Khorasan was also promoting and encouraging terrorism in the Indian subcontinent, according to the order.RelatedStoriesTerror intel faux pas: Suspected for suicide bombing in Kashmir, Pune girl free to goUS approaches FATF to put Pak on global terrorist financing watch list
It had been committing terrorist acts to consolidate its position by recruiting youths for ‘global jihad’ and to achieve the objective of establishing its own ‘caliphate’ by overthrowing democratically elected governments, the order said.
The UAPA has strict penal provisions to deal with banned organisations and their members.
(With PTI inputs)
Top News
Tirupati laddus row: Devotee claims tobacco found in prasadam, TTD denies reports
Tirupati's Laddu Row: Spat between Pawan Kalyan, Prakash Raj continues
Ishan Kishan included, Dhruv Jurel, Yash Dayal picked in Rest of India's squad for Irani Cup
Related India News
Tirupati laddus row: Devotee claims tobacco found in prasadam, TTD denies reports
OPINION | Encounters: Are They Caste Based?
Breaking News, September 24 | LIVE updates
Tirupati laddu row: Centre issues show cause notice to ghee supplier
Punjab govt conducts major administrative reshuffle, transfers 124 IAS, PCS officers
Latest News
'Suicide capsule': In a first, woman dies in Switzerland within minutes of pressing 'death button'
Tirupati's Laddu Row: Spat between Pawan Kalyan, Prakash Raj continues
Muqabla: Badlapur encounter true or fake?
Schools to open in Assam from tomorrow as weather condition improves, read official order
© 2009-2024 Independent News Service.  All rights reserved.
As tensions between Israel & Hezbollah rise, what will be socio-economic impact of a full-blown war?
Yoga, 24 September 2024: 4 'white' enemies in the path of long life...How to get a healthy life?
PM Modi at UN 'Summit of the Future': Poverty to Global South, Top 5 takeaways from PM Modi's speech
Israel-Hezbollah Conflict: IDF bombards over 300 Hezbollah targets in Lebanon, several dead
Horoscope Today, 24 September, 2024: Know Your Zodiac-Based Predictions
Tirupati laddu row: Centre issues show cause notice to ghee supplier
Punjab govt conducts major administrative reshuffle, transfers 124 IAS, PCS officers
OPINION | Encounters: Are They Caste Based?
Breaking News, September 24 | LIVE updates
Aaj Ki Baat: Full episode, September 23, 2024
'Suicide capsule': In a first, woman dies in Switzerland within minutes of pressing 'death button'
Bangladesh govt chief Yunus evades questions from Indian media in New York | Video goes viral
Israel's deadliest airstrikes on Lebanon kill 558 including 50 children, 94 women: Health Ministry
Harini Amarasuriya named as the new Prime Minister of Sri Lanka | Who is she?
Trump accuses US Justice Department, FBI of 'mishandling, downplaying' second assassination bid case
Tirupati's Laddu Row: Spat between Pawan Kalyan, Prakash Raj continues
Sohum Shah’s Tumbbad surpasses Thalapathy Vijay's Ghilli, becomes highest-grossing Indian re-release
Did you know Omar Abdullah had THIS objection to Ranbir-Deepika starrer 'Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani'?
Vashu Bhagnani, Jackky Bhagnani accuse Ali Abbas Zafar for of siphoning funds
Maharaj actor Shalini Pandey joins Dhanush's 'Idli Kadai', begins shooting in Hyderabad
Ishan Kishan included, Dhruv Jurel, Yash Dayal picked in Rest of India's squad for Irani Cup
Ajinkya Rahane to lead, Shreyas Iyer, Shardul Thakur in as Mumbai announce squad for Irani Cup
On This Day in 2007: MS Dhoni-led team India won inaugural T20 World Cup edition beating Pakistan
First time in more than 20 years! Nicholas Pooran touches massive six-hitting milestone in 2024
Virat Kohli on cusp of breaking Sachin Tendulkar and Don Bradman's records vs Bangladesh in 2nd Test
iPhone 16 Pro faces touchscreen problems, leaves buyers fuming
Airtel introduces 3 new data plans, offering 1GB of data for Rs 7
Telegram intensifies crackdown on illegal content following CEO Durov's arrest
Samsung Galaxy M55s 5G starting at Rs 19,999 launched in India: Check specs, availability
Dyson OnTrac headphones priced at Rs 44,900 launched in India: Check specs, features
How new Jammu and Kashmir assembly will be different from earlier ones in terms of power?
Israel-Hezbollah tensions peak: What will be socio-economic impact of full-blown war? | EXPLAINED
Jammu and Kashmir Assembly Elections: How many candidates in Phase 2 are facing criminal cases?
When was last 'One Nation, One Election' held in India and who broke the cycle? DETAILS
One Nation, One Election: Why is Centre planning to implement it, what are its benefits? | Explained
Suffering from back pain? It can be a sign of heart attack, know other symptoms
Fed up of wearing glasses all day long? Follow THESE natural remedies to improve your eyesight
Fatty liver causes several serious health issues, know how to keep the organ healthy
Say goodbye to dirty cholesterol buildup in veins with THESE 5 home remedies
Cold and cough due to weather transition? Consume THIS Ayurvedic powder to get relief

Title: No title found


Title: IST Afghanistan Report – In  Saner  Thought
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address:
Sign me up!

I try to keep the readers of IST up to date on the progress or lack there of in the war being fought in Afghanistan….after 17 years the American people still do not care that there are Americans fighting and dying in  this country.
Spring has arrived in Afghanistan and Summer lurks….this is the time the Taleban and AQ and ISIS pick to up their attacks and their for attacks….plus the US and its allies also will be planning and attacking……
Following Thursday’s announcement that the US will comply with Afghanistan’s Ramadan ceasefire, which covers the Taliban and will last until June 20, thePentagon now says they intend to step up offensives against ISIS in Afghanistan.
This announcement is perhaps unsurprising, as the US has not committed itself to a peace process in Afghanistan, and has been steadily escalating its military forces in the country. ISIS remains a convenient alternative target while the Taliban is off-limits.
While this opens up a lot more US troops to carry out strikes against ISIS, what it will accomplish remains to be seen. The US and Afghan governments have both claimed to have wiped ISIS out in Nangarhar repeatedly, only for the group to reemerge, seemingly unharmed.
(antiwar.com)
An interesting announcement considering there are very few that know just how strong ISIS is in Afghanistan…..
There are statements after statements about the situation in Afghanistan….but maybe we should hold our admiration for the job being done…….
The Lead Inspector General (IG) for Operation Freedom’s Sentinel released its quarterly report to Congress last week, assessing the state of the U.S. mission in Afghanistan. To put it mildly, the situation is not good. As Glenn Fine, the Principal Deputy IG for the Defense Departmentwritesin the report’s foreword and executive summary, “the percentage of the population living in areas under the control or influence of the Afghan government showed little positive change this quarter,” while civilian casualties were “near record high levels.”
There were some small signs of promise, such as a modest decrease in “security-related incidents” — violence. From April to February, violence was below historical averages, and remains there, despite the Taliban’s Spring Offensive beginning in April. At the same time though, high profile attacks by the Taliban and ISIS spiked, and the Director of National Intelligence, Daniel Coats, has written that the security situation in Afghanistan will likely continue to decline this year.
https://www.realcleardefense.com/articles/2018/06/08/dont_buy_the_pentagons_statements_on_afghanistan_113520.html
Rest assured that IST will always keep its readers up to date on the news of all our theaters of conflict.
“news of all our theaters of conflict”
Perhaps we should not have “theatres of conflict”.  Perhaps there are other ways to settle our disputes?  I have started to read the Quran, not because I am a believer in god (any god) but because I would like to understand Islam a little better. Presumably Muslim extremists really do believe that the Quran is the word of god in the same way your Bible Belt believes in the Old Testament.
Armed conflict has never settled anything for very long.  It is not an answer to our ills. Perhaps we could look for another way.
You will find that much of what is said to be in the Quran is not but rather in the Hadiths which are just a preacher’s interpretation….
The UN was suppose to settle differences but when you have 5 countries that can crap on any attempts at peace then there will never be any…..I give you “kudos” for trying to understand….I wish more people would do the same….chuq
Yes indeed the Jews have much the same procedure – the Midrash. And so of course do the Christians. One has to be aware at least of Thomas Aquinas, St Augustine and the rest of the gang.  I am afraid I find some (perhaps most ) of the christian midrash insensible nonsense nonetheless there are patches of beauty and lucidity!
There is an interesting book…”Bible Unearthed” by Silberman/Finkelstein that tells it like it is..how most of the Old Testament has come from other cultures especially from Sumer and others….good reading….chuq
It most certainly have. I have read the epic of Gilgamesh. The tragedy is that more people don’t assimilate the fact that jew and arab are the same race. Well, let’s face it we are all the same race. And as you know Abraham came from Iraq – Ur of the Chaldes.
The Epic is great……most people are afraid to find the truth even when it is given to them simply…..the same indeed there is pottery proof that Israelites and Cannanites were the very same only difference was the consumption of pork….chuq
I noted that the Eid ‘ceasefire’ in Afghanistan was announced by the killing of 10 people the other day. I would advocate pulling everything out. All troops, all aid, all diplomatic relations, foreign companies, and any connection to, or investment from, the west. Let the country go back to the stone age with no trade or imports, and see how long it lasts.Then bomb the poppy fields using drones, and stop their only export and source of income, heroin.Best wishes, Pete.
I like your plan….wish more could get on board…..the major problem is that Afghanistan is rich with rare earth metals and the profits are immense….and there is why we continue to fight and die….chuq
And meanwhile, we are still not getting those minerals, I suspect. The Taliban won’t be able to mine them, so let’s leave them in the ground.
I agree…the problem is society’s need for electronics will make it profitable and if we do  not then of course there is China….I think we could make a deal that does not involve fighting and killing….chuq

Δ
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.Learn how your comment data is processed.

Title: Ramadan Rage 2018: Islamic State Defeat Brings Holy Month Deaths Down 45 Percent
Islamic terrorists carried out at least 177 terror attacks during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan this year, killing 841 people and wounding 1,014 others across nearly 25 countries, a Breitbart News tally shows.
This year, Breitbart News’ count covers Islamic terrorist attacks from May 17 through June 15 — the month of Ramadan in most Muslim-majority countries covered by the data.
Breitbart News documented a total of 1,855 casualties during that period, a drop of about 45 percent from the3,343(1,639 killed, 1,704 injured) recorded during Ramadan last year when the Islamic State (ISIS/ISIL) was much stronger.
ISIS has suffered major losses in Iraq and Syria largely at the hands of the U.S.-led coalition and its Kurdish allies, losing its so-called caliphate under American President Donald Trump’s watch. The terrorist group has been pushed out of Iraq and squeezed the into ever-shrinking small pockets of territory in Syria.

The TalibanreplacedISIS as the world’s most prolific Islamic terrorist group during Ramadan 2018, killing at least 324 Afghan civilians and security forces and wounding 404 others people despite participating in anunprecedentedceasefire at the end of the holy month.
Afghan Taliban jihadists were responsible for about 40 percent of all casualties this year, trailed by ISIS, which was behind about 30 percent.
ISIS, including its Nigeria-based Boko Haram wing, killed 256 people and wounded 281 others. Boko Haram alone killed 35 and wounded 65 others in Nigeria, one of the top five bloodiest countries during Ramadan. Fatalities in Nigeria were primarily fueled by Muslim extremistherdsmenthis year, known to target the Christian minority in the country.
The herdsmen, described as terrorists by Christian persecution tracking organizationOpen Doors, killed 43 people and injured 45 others during the holiest month for Muslims, Ramadan.
Breitbart News was unable to determine the terrorist group behind 81 deaths and 153 injuries this year.

Taliban and ISIS terrorists rendered Afghanistan the deadliest Muslim country during Ramadan, home to 345 deaths and 503 injuries. Although ISIS haslostits so-called caliphate in Iraq and Syria, the terrorist group was still responsible for three out of every ten casualties during Ramadan.
Syria (163 fatalities) came in second place and Iraq (59) in fourth as the deadliest nations during the holy month.
The top five bloodiest countries during Ramadan 2018, including both fatalities and injuries, were Afghanistan (858 casualties), Syria (247), Iraq (151), Nigeria (132), and Yemen (94). Besides Nigeria, all the other four countries were home to an ongoing war, primarily between Muslims, but also involving U.S. troops.

In 2018, the largest drop in Ramadan fatalities took place in Iraq where deaths dropped by more than 90 percent, from 705 last year to 59 last year.

Islamic terroristskilledone American servicemember during the holy month, on June 8 in Somalia.
On average, there were about six attacks that resulted in an estimated 28 fatalities and 34 injuries each day during the holiest month for Muslims.
The vast majority of victims of jihadist attacks this Ramadan are Muslims. As in previous years, women and children are found among the casualties. There was only one attack in the West this year. On May 29, an ISIS-linked jihadi killed three and wounded four others in Belgium.
Jihadisbelieveit is especially heroic and rewarded by God in paradise to die a martyr during the holy month.
Nevertheless, most Muslims follow the Ramadan tradition of abstaining from eating, drinking, smoking, having sex, and other physical needs each day, starting from before the break of dawn until sunset.
Islamic terrorists were unusually quiet this year when it comes to their annual Ramadan call to arms. Unlike previous years, they did not officially urge their followers and supporters to carry out attacks during the holy month. That may have contributed to the 50 percent drop in casualties this year from 2017.
Breitbart News primarily gleans its count from theReligion of Peacewebsite in coordination with news and government reports.
News outlets and officials may update some of the data as some of the injured victims succumb to their injuries, triggering a change in the count after Breitbart News publishes this report.All the terrorist attacks documented by Breitbart News during Ramadan 2018 include:
May 17 —Farah, Afghanistan— Talibankillsthree foreign engineers.
May 17 —Kashmir, India— Terrorists kidnap,slit throatof a 23-year-old man after Indian government declares first Ramadan ceasefire in 18 years.
May 17 —Borno, Nigeria— Suspected Boko Haram jihadists detonated a bomb at camp for people displaced by insurgency,killingfour and wounding 15.
May 17 —Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP), Pakistan—Jamaat-ul-Ahrar(JuA) terrorist group claims responsibility for a suicide bombing thatkillsone and injures 14.
May 17 —North Sinai, Egypt— Sunni hardliners bombed an area,killingone and injuring another.
May 17 —Uruzgan, Afghanistan— Talibankilltwo police officers.
May 18 —Raqqa, Syria— Leftover Islamic State (ISIS/ISIL) improvised explosive device (IED)killstwo civilians.
May 18 —Diyala, Iraq— Suspected ISIS terrorists are behind a bomb blast thatkillsone and wounds another.
May 18 —Kirkuk, Iraq— Suspected ISIS terroristskilla member of Kurdish Kakayi minority group with IED.
May 18 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Taliban attacked police security posts,killingfive police officers and wounding six others.
May 18 —Ghani, Afghanistan— Taliban attacked remote Ajristan district,killingnine security forces and wounding seven others.
May 18 —Nangarhar, Afghanistan—SuspectedIslamic State terrorists attacked “Ramadan Cup” cricket tournament in Jalalabad, the capital of the group’s stronghold,killingeight and wounding 55.
May 18 —Faryab, Afghanistan— Taliban rocketskillfour police officers, wound four others in Qaisar district.
May 19 —Chechnya, Russia— Islamic State claimedresponsibilityfor an attack at church thatkillstwo police officers and a worshipper and also wounds another police officer.
May 19 —Mogadishu, Somalia— Suspected al-Shabaab jihadists fit explosives on car,killingone local security troop.
May 19 —Nineveh, Iraq— Suspected Islamic State jihadistskillthe mayor of Hammam al-Alil region.
May 19 —Ghazni, Afghanistan— Talibankill14 security forces, wound ten others.
May 21 —Nineveh, Iraq— ISISkillstwo Shiite fighters in Sinjar town.
May 21 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Taliban terroristskillfive workers clearing landmines in Maiwand.
May 21 —Baghdad, Iraq— Suspected Islamic State terrorist car bombkillsone civilian.
May 21 —Ghazni, Afghanistan— Taliban jihadistskill14 security forces, wound 12 others in Dih Yak and Jaghatu districts.
May 21 —Sidi Bel Abbes, Algeria— Terroristskilltwo men inside a mosque, including themuezzin, who calls Muslims to prayer.
May 21 —Paktia, Afghanistan— Talibankillssix police officers, captures five others.
May 21 —Herat, Afghanistan— Talibankillstwo policemen, wounds seven others.
May 22 —Mogadishu, Somalia— Islamickillspoliceman in Bakara Market.
May 22 —Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso— Suspected terroristskillone police officer, wound five, including a civilian.
May 22 —Ajdabiya, Libya— ISIS suicide bomberkillstwo fighters loyal to militia leader Khalifa Haftar,woundstwo others
May 22 —Marib, Yemen— Iran-allied Houthis launch missile thatkillsfive civilians, wound 22 others.
May 22 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Minivan stuffed with explosives by suspected Taliban terroristskills16, wounds 38, including security forces and civilians.
May 22 —Palmyra, Syria— ISISkillsat least 30 Syrian troops and Iranian-backed militiamen,wounds14.
May 22 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISISexecutesan elderly man.
May 23 —Diyala, Iraq— ISIS attacked a family house in Jalawla region,killingthree, wounding three others.
May 23 —Kashmir, India— Suspected terrorists launch a grenade,injuringten civilians, including a woman and a 12-year-old boy.
May 23 —Mudug, Somalia— Suspected al-Shabaab jihadikillslawmaker in Galkayo.
May 23 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban terroristskillkidnapped mine-clearance worker.
May 23 —Baghdad, Iraq— Terrorist blows himself up in a crowded park in Shiite-majority Shoala,killingseven and wounding 16.
May 23 —Uruzgan, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban terroristskilleight Afghan security forces in Chora district, including military and police units.
May 23 —Basra, Iraq— Masked terrorists on a motorbikekillthree civilians.
May24 —Benghazi, Libya— Suspected jihadists carry out car bombing behind city’s largest hotel,killingseven, including a girl, and wounding 20.
May 24 —Diyala, Iraq— ISISkillstwo civilians in Jalawla region.
May 24 —Kirkuk, Iraq— Suspected ISIS terrorist mortar shell landed on a home,killinga 53-year-old woman.
May 24 —Balochistan, Pakistan— Lashkar-e-Jhangvi (LEJ) terroristskillone, injure another with a landmine in Kalat district.
May 24 —Maidan Wardak, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban roadside bomb rips through a vehicle,killingfour civilians, injuring two others.
May 25 —KP, Pakistan— Terrorists in Dera Ismail Khan regionkilla police officer, wound another.
May 25 —Kashmir, India— Suspected Lashkar-e-Toiba terroristslitsthroat of a 36-year-old man in Bandipora district.
May 25 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISISkillsthree policemen, wounds three others near Gharib village.
May 25 —Narathiwat, Thailand— Gunmen in country’s Muslim-majority regionkilltwo civilians at a tea shop in Ra-ngae district.
May 26 —Idlib, Syria— Terroristskill10 andwound43.
May 26 —Ramallah, Israel— Suspected Palestiniandropslarge marble block on soldier, killing him.
May 27 —Helmand, Afghanistan—Talibanterrorists carry out Vehicle-borne Improvised Explosive Device (VBIED) near a military base in Nad Ali district,killingeight local soldiers,woundinga dozen more.
May 27 —Kashmir, India— Terroristskilla soldier and a civilian in Pulwama amid ceasefire.
May 27 —Herat, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban terroristskillelection booth worker, two policemen in Chishti Sharif district.
May 27 —Palma, Mozambique— Suspectedal-Shabaabmilitants behead 10, including two children.
May 28 —Mogadishu, Somalia— Suspected al-Shabaab terroristskilla member of the security forces and a civilian.
May 28 —Taraba, Nigeria— Muslim Fulani herdsmen attacked Catholic seminary in Jalingo,woundingthree priests and at leasttwostudents.
May 28 —Pattani, Thailand— Suspected Islamistskillcivilian in front of his house after returning from a mosque for prayers.
May 28 —Borno, Nigeria— Suspected Boko Haram suicide bomberskillfive, wound five in two separate attacks inside a house a near a mosque in Konduga.
May 28 —Paktia, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban gunmen attacked police convoy carrying aTalibanprisoner,killingfive including the prisoner and a civilian.
May 28 —KP, Pakistan— Suspected Islamistskillpolice officer inDera Ismail Khan.
May 29 —Bari, Somalia— ISIS attacks army base,killingone soldier and injuring three, including civilians in Qandala District.
May 29 —Paktia, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban terroristskillfour border guards, wound nine others in Dand Wa Patan district.
May 29 —Liege, Belgium—ISIS-linked man shouted “Allahu Akbar” whilekillingthree, including two policewomen and civilian, wounding four police officers.
May 29 —Peshawar, Pakistan— Suspected Islamistkillrenowned Sikh religious leader and outspoken critic of the Taliban.
May 29 —Diyala, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadists detonate bomb at a local marker near girls school,killingone, wounding seven in Baqubah.
May 30 —Aleppo, Syria— Al-Qaeda-linked Ahrar Al-Sham Islamic movement jihadistskillone civilian in Jarabulus.
May 30 —Idlib, Syria— Islamistskillonecivilianin al-Dana.
May 30 —North Waziristan, Pakistan— Suspected Taliban roadside bombkillstwo army troops, injures three others in Dattakhel town.
May 30 —Logar, Afghanistan— Taliban suicide bomberskillthree policemen, wound 12 others, including civilians in provincial capital.
May 30 —Kabul, Afghanistan—SuspectedTaliban/Haqqani Network jihadists attack Ministry of Interior,killingone police officer, wounding eight.
May 30 —Abyan, Yemen— Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP) jihadistskillUAE-backed commander in Zinjibar city.
May 30 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban roadside bombkillsthree, wounds 13.
May 31 —Benue, Nigeria— Suspected Muslim Fulani herdsmenkilltwo, wound two in Logo.
May 31 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haram terroristskillfive soldiers.
May 31 —Idlib, Syria— Islamists-linked explosionkillsthree children,wounds4 in Ariha city.
May 31 —Mecca, Saudi Arabia— Suspected jihadistskillone police officer, wound several others in Taif city.
May 31 —Aleppo, Syria— Suspected jihadistskillfour, including a child,woundsix at a bus station in Jarablus.
June 1 —Salahuddin, Iraq—SuspectedISIS terroristskillthree militiamen.
June 1 —Kunduz, Afghanistan— Taliban jihadistskilltwo, injure one in Charkhab Shinwari.
June 1 —Kapisa, Afghanistan— Crossfire between troops and Talibankillone, injure four in Alasai district.
June 2 —Hodeidah, Yemen—SuspectedIran-backed Houthis or Ansar Allahkill40 Saudi “mercenaries,” capture 15.
June 2 —Ajdabiya, Libya— ISISkillsone woman, wounds five others.
June 2 —North Waziristan, Pakistan— Suspected jihadistskillone official, wound three security officers.
June 2 —Salahuddin, Iraq— ISISkills12 members of the same family, including women and children.
June 2 —Salahuddin, Iraq— Suspected ISIS terroristskillfour soldiers in Shirqat.
June 2 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Jihadi bomb attackkillsAfghan archeologist, wounds three people riding in Ministry of Information and Culture vehicle in the Binni Hisar area.
June 2 —Puntland, Somalia— Al-Shabaab terroristskillfour soldiers, injure 10.
June 2 —Plateau, Nigeria— Suspected Muslim Fulani herdsmenkillthree in Gashish District of Barkin-Ladi area.
June 2 —Adamawa State, Nigeria— Suspected Muslim Fulani herdsmenkill12 in Kangling.
June 2 —Faryab, Afghanistan— Talibankilltwo police officers in Lawlash district.
June 3 —Kirkuk, Iraq—SuspectedISIS jihadistskilltwo police officers, wound four civilians.
June 3 —Benue, Nigeria— Muslim Fulani herdsmenkill10, wound 15.
June 3 —KP/Balochistan, Pakistan— Pakistani Taliban terroristsinjurefive security officers at two border posts in Bajaur in KP and Qamar Din Qarez in Balochistan.
June 3 —South Waziristan, Pakistan—Clashesbetween Taliban terrorists and security forceskillup to 10 Pashtun activists, injure up to 30 in Wana.
June 3 —Nangarhar, Afghanistan— ISIS landminekillsthree children in Shirullah Qala village of Haska Mina district.
June 3 —Ghor, Afghanistan— Talibankillsix police officers in four assaults on Ghor’s Taywara district headquarters.
June 3 —Hiiraan, Somalia— Al-Shabaab jihadistskillsix civilians.
June 4 —Kabul, Afghanistan—SuspectedTalibankill14, wound 19 at a gathering of Afghanistan’s top clerics.
June 4 —Kashmir, India— Terrorists launch grenade at Shopian in Batapora area,wounding23, including four policemen and 12 civilians, among them a mother and daughter. (Check for deaths).
June 4 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haram IEDkillsfive soldiers.
June 4 —Ghor, Afghanistan— Taliban terroristskilltwo policemen, wounds another in provincial capital of Ferozkoh.
June 4 —Cabo Delgado, Mozambique— Suspected jihadists wielding macheteskillat least seven people, injure four others in Macomia.
June 4 —Balochistan, Pakistan— ISIS jihadistskillthree soldiers, injure four others in Mastung city.
June 5 —Middle Shabelle, Somalia— Al-Shabaab terroristskill12 people, including two lawmakers in Balad region.
June 5 —Baghlan, Afghanistan— Suspected Talibanwoundfour with bomb attached to police car.
June 5 —Idlib, Syria— al-Qaeda-linked Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS) jihadistskilltwo people on suspicion of having joined rival ISIS group.
June 5 —Diffa, Niger— Suspected Boko Haram suicide bombers, including girls,killnine,wound37 inside mosque.
June 6 —Benue, Nigeria— Suspected Muslim Fulani herdsmenkillat least nine people, including women and children.
June 6 —Baghlan, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban terroristskilltwo, injure two at a voter registration center in Pul-i-Khumri.
June 6 —Liboi, Kenya— Suspected al-Shabaab IEDkillssix police officers, wounds three others along the Kenya-Somalia border.
June 6 —Cabo Delgado, Mozambique— Suspected al-Shabaab terroristskillfive with knives and machetes.
June 6 —Narathiwat, Thailand— Suspected jihadistskillvillager after he was riding home after prayers at local mosque in Bacho district.
June 7 —Narathiwat, Thailand— Suspected jihadiskillfour villagers in Sukhirin.
June 7 —Khost, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban jihadistskilltwo, injure three inside mosque in the Mandozai district.
June 7 —Nangarhar, Afghanistan— Terroristswoundtwo police officers in ISIS stronghold.
June 7 —Herat, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban terroristskillfive people including imam in Zenda Jan district and wounded another 88 with ax, poisons, and gunshots.
Jue 7 —Kashmir, India— Jihadists attack Line of Control (LoC) border,killingone, injuring another.
June 7 —KP, Pakistan— Suspected terroristskillpolice officer, driver, and a civilian, injure two other police officers in Zaimdara Maidan.
June 7 —Diyala, Iraq— ISISkillsone, wounds another in Jabara district.
June 7 —Sweida, Syria— ISIS attackskill22 pro-regime fighters.
June 8 —Nangarhar, Afghanistan— Terroristskillthree, injure five others in ISIS stronghold.
June 8 —Dogba, Cameroon— Boko Haramkillssix villagers.
June 8 —Laghman, Afghanistan— Suspected terroristskillfour, including scholar and guards, wound 12 other in Mehtarlam city.
June 8 —Herat, Afghanistan— Suspected Talibankillseven, wound two at a mosque in Shindand district.
June 8 —Herat, Afghanistan— Talibankills17 security forces,wounds13 others in Shindand area.
June 8 —Kirkuk, Iraq— Suspected ISIS terrroristskillwoman, wound 14 others near a mosque in a crowded market area.
June 8 —Kismayo, Somalia— Al-Shabaab terroristskillone U.S. soldier, wound four others. Jihadists kill at least two local soldiers.
June 8 —Deir Ezzor , Syria— ISIS suicide bombing wavekills30 pro-regime fighters in Albu Kamal.
June 9 —Diyala, Iraq— Terroristskilltwo, injure 20 in town of Khalis.
June 9 —Nineveh, Iraq— ISISkillstwo policemen in al-Hadar district.
June 9 —Boni, Mali— Suspected al-Qaedakillsthree soldiers.
June 9 —Kuduz, Afghanistan— Talibankills25 local policemen in Qala-e Zal district.
June 9 —Jizan, Saudi Arabia— Suspected Iran-backed Houthiskillthree.
June 9 —Idlib, Syria— ISISkillsfive rivals.
June 9 —Kismayo, Somalia— al-Shabaabwoundsseven soldiers with suicide car bomb.
June 10 —Plateau, Nigeria— Suspected Muslim herdsmenkilltwo in Bassa area.
June 10 —Adamawa, Nigeria— Suspected Boko Haram IEDkillsone boy, injures two others in Mubi town.
June 10 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Talibankills13 security troops, wounds four others in Arghandab district.
June 10 —Aleppo, Syria— Terroristskillfour and wound at least four others with IED.
June 10 —Deir Ezzor, Syria— ISISkillsthree Kurdish fighters.
June 10 —Aleppo, Syria— Suspected jihadi IEDkillsfour civilians in  Tell Rifaat region.
June 10 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISISkillstwo, wounds 10 pro-Baghdad Shiite militiamen.
June 11 —Kunduz, Afghanistan— Talibankills15 Afghan security forces in Qala-e Zal district as they ate pre-fasting meal.
June 11 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISISkillsthree pro-Baghdad militiamen and civilians, injures 13 others.
June 11 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haram suicide bomberkillsone civilian in state capital Maiduguri, wounds four others.
June 11 —Kabul, Afghanistan—ISISclaims responsability forkilling13, wounding 26 in attack targeting ministry.
June 11 —Kabul, Afghanistan—Suspectedjihadistskillone, injure three others inside house.
June 11 —Nangarhar, Afghanistan— ISISwounds15 when it targeted ministry.
June 11 —Nangarhar, Afghanistan— Suspected ISISkillsone, injures 12 in Chaparhar district.
June 11 —Ghazni, Afghnistan— Talibankillssix civilians including women and children in minibus, wounds three others.
June 11 —Sar-e Pul Province, Afghanistan —Talibankillsthree security forces, wounds five in  Qaflatoon village.
June 11 —Derna, Libya— Suspected al-Qaeda terroristskilltwo Libya National Army (LNA) fighters, wound three others.
June 11 —Munshiganj district, Bangladesh— Suspected terroristskillprominent secular writer, publisher in Kakaldi village.
June 11 —Raqqa, Syria— Leftover ISIS bombkillsthree civilians in group’s fallen capital.
June 11 —Idlib, Syria— Suspected jihadiskillthree civilians, wound one.
June 11 —Nangade, Mozambique— Suspected jihadiskillfour civilians in Changa.
June 12 —Cabo Delgado, Mozambique— Suspected jihadisbeheadelderly man in Macomia district.
June 12 —Sar-e Pul Province, Afghanistan— Talibankills14, wounds 25 security forces.
June 12 —Faryab, Afghanistan— Talibankillseight security forces in capital Kohistan.
June 12 —Nasarawa, Nigeria— Suspected Funali herdsmenkillfamily of four, injure 21 in Antsa village of Kwarra district.
June 12 —Kashmir, India— Suspected Islamic militantskilltwo policemen, injure 11 others.
June 12 —Bakool, Somalia— Al-Shabaab jihadiskillfour soldiers on a military base in Teed town.
June 12 —Ghazni, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban terroristskillfive policemen, wound 26 others, including district governor.
June 12 —Jawzjan, Afghanistan— Talibankillsseven policemen, wounds two others in Burhan Shahr village.
June 12 —Badakhshan, Afghanistan— Talibankills14 in Kohistan district, including governor, wounds 16.
June 13 —Deir Ezzor, Syria— ISISexecutes30 members of its own group allegedly for treason in town of Hajin.
June 13 —Badakhshan, Afghanistan— Talibankills18 army troops in Jurm district.
June 13 —Nangarhar, Afghanistan— Jihadis place IED outside market,killingone child, injuring seven others in Jalalabad area.
June 13 —Deir Ezzor, Syria— Jihadi IEDkillsfive, including two civilians and three Kurdish fighters.
June 13 —Aleppo, Syria— IEDwoundsnine at a market in the city of al-Bab.
June 13 —Derna, Libya— LNA forces saying “Allah Akbar”kill“two unarmed civilians.”
June 14 —Idlib, Syria— IEDkillsone civilian, wound three in  city of Kafr Nabl.
June 14 —Western Cape, South Africa— Suspected jihadistabstwo worshippers at a Malmesbury mosque to death, injures three others, including policeman.
June 14 —Kashmir, India—  Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT)killsthree newspaper workers.
June 14 —Kashmir, India— Suspected Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HuM) terroristskilloff-duty officer.
June 14 —Abyan, Yemen— Suspected Iran-backed Houthis kill three United Arab Emirati (UAE) troops, wound seven.
June 15 —Taiz, Yemen— Suspected jihadis kill Red Cross humanitarian worker.
Pleaselet us knowif you're having issues with commenting.




Copyright © 2024 Breitbart

Title: Amid Ceasefire With Taliban, US Strikes on ISIS in Afghanistan Heat Up | Military.com
The U.S. military is beefing up its strikes against the ISIS-K extremist group in Afghanistan while the ceasefire the Afghan National Defense Forces have brokered with the Taliban continues to hold, a top general said Wednesday.
The recent Taliban-Afghan agreement is the first unilateral ceasefire since the war in Afghanistan began in 2001, said Brig. Gen. Lance R. Bunch Assistant, Deputy Commander for Air, and Vice Commander, 9th Air and Space Expeditionary Task Force-Afghanistan, Resolute Support. But airstrikes on other hostile groups continue, especially the Afghan offshoot of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, called Islamic State-Khorasan province, or ISIS-K.
"We have conducted strikes against ISIS-K during this timeframe, a little over 80 of those strikes as we continue to do counterterrorism operations," Bunch told reporters via a video feed from Afghanistan, reiterating striking ISIS-K is not a part of the ceasefire.
The ceasefire began June 11.
Related content:
The general said there has been a "slight increase" on ISIS-K targets since the start of the ceasefire, but did not cite specific numbers.
"We have increased our operations against ISIS-K [since] the beginning of this month" in eastern Afghanistan, Bunch said, adding that four companies of Afghan special forces have accumulated in the Deh Bala district.
Calling in airstrikes has been the sole responsibility of the Afghan National Defense Security Forces, who develop their own intelligence and identify the targets without the aid of U.S. Joint Terminal Attack Controllers, or JTACS.
"This is the single largestdeploymentof commandos on the battlefield, ever, in a jointspecial operations[mission]," Bunch said.
The 80 strikes against ISIS-K were in support of this buildup, he said.
When asked whether or not the U.S. continues to strike al-Qaida --which remains a threat in country-- Bunch said he could not could not recall recent specific instance of strikes on the group, but added, "we continue to target any of the counter-terrorism type targets."
Before the coalition recently shifted assets away from striking the Taliban, strikes against al-Qaida and other terrorist organizations had been abundant in 2018.
Last month, U.S. airstrikes in Afghanistan reached a new record, marking the highest number of airstrikes this year in Operation Freedom's Sentinel for any month since October.
Fighter, attack and remotely piloted aircraft dropped a total of nearly 600 weapons during the month of May,according to the recent strike report fromAir Forces Central Command. And more bombs were dropped over the 61 days of April and May than over the entirety of 2015, the data shows.
U.S. aircraft have conducted zero strikes on Taliban ground fighters since a ceasefire was announced June 11, said Bunch. However, the Afghan Air Force has conducted 38 self-defense strikes against the Taliban during the unilateral truce, he said.
"There have been 38 instances where the Afghan air force has been airborne and has conducted self-defense strikes in support of their ANA partners on the ground -- 38 instances where the Taliban did not honor the ceasefire," Bunch said.
-- Oriana Pawlyk can be reached atoriana.pawlyk@military.com. Follow her on Twitter at @oriana0214.
Oriana Pawlyk is Military.com’s air warfare reporter covering everything from the latest personnel trends, aircraft, investigations, defense technology, to Air Force operations all over the world. Pawlyk is also an active member of the Pentagon Press Association.Read Full Bio
Biden is expected to use his wide-ranging address to speak to the need to end the Middle East conflict and the 17-month-old...
The Truman and Carrier Air Wing 1 will head to the Red Sea, where U.S. sailors have fought almost daily for months to down...
The powerful sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un vowed to boost the country’s nuclear war capability and take other...
Israel and Hezbollah traded strikes, a day after a massive Israeli bombardment killed nearly 500 people, sent thousands...
How to maintain and grow diversity is at issue in a trial that is entering its second week in U.S. District Court in...
From the 1983 Beirut bombing to the withdrawal from Afghanistan, the galleries usher guests through an immersive 40-plus...
The class-action suit was filed in November 2022 by the nonprofit Public Counsel law firm on behalf of 14 unhoused and...
While legislation that created presumptive conditions for Agent Orange and burn pits has helped millions, veterans exposed to...
Copayments were suspended as a result of problems caused by the Oracle Cerner electronic records system when it was...
Biden is expected to use his wide-ranging address to speak to the need to end the Middle East conflict and the 17-month-old...
The Truman and Carrier Air Wing 1 will head to the Red Sea, where U.S. sailors have fought almost daily for months to down...
The powerful sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un vowed to boost the country’s nuclear war capability and take other...
Israel and Hezbollah traded strikes, a day after a massive Israeli bombardment killed nearly 500 people, sent thousands...
Japanese Defense Minister Minoru Kihara told reporters that the Russian Il-38 plane breached Japan’s airspace above Rebun...
Visit our Customer Support center for solutions or to contact us.

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: A "Remarkable" Afghan Ceasefire | Institute for the Study of War

Image Source: U.S. Marine Corps, Cpl. Reece Lodder (Flickr)

A “Remarkable” Afghan Ceasefire
By Scott DesMarais
Key Takeaway:The U.S. and Afghanistan have an opportunity to advance their strategic goal of negotiating an acceptable settlement with the Taliban, but not all Taliban members are reconcilable.The Taliban faces a potential rift between its leadership and rank-and-file militants in Afghanistan that threatens the Taliban’s cohesion. Large numbers of rank-and-file militants expressed their support for peace during unprecedented joint celebrations alongside Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) during a nationwide ceasefire for Eid al-Fitr on June 15 - 17. The ceasefire’s events exposed rifts amongst Taliban leadership concerning reconciliation. The U.S. and the Government of Afghanistan could exploit these apparent rifts in order to advance their strategic goal of a negotiated settlement with the Taliban. The new momentum towards peace could nonetheless generate additional pressure for the withdrawal of the U.S. from Afghanistan amidst the scheduled 2018 Afghan Parliamentary Elections.ISIS - Wilayat Khorasan could also exploit these rifts in to bolster its recruitment of hardline Taliban militants and expand its operations in Afghanistan.
What Happened
The Taliban and Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) engaged in “remarkable scenes” of joint celebration during a three-day ceasefire observed by both the Taliban and the ANSF.The Government of Afghanistanestimatedthat up to 30,000 Taliban militants entered government-held cities across the country during the three-day truce in honor of the end of Ramadan.1Thegatheringsreportedly occurred in several regions that have seen intense fighting during the Taliban’s 2018 Al-Khandaq Offensive including Faryab, Farah, Ghazni, and Kunduz Provinces as well as traditional Taliban strongholds such asHelmandandKandaharProvinces. Even “senior” leaders reportedly met with government officials inZabulandLogarProvinces. Taliban fighters interviewed by the media repeatedlyexpressedtheir fatigue with continued violence and theirgrowingdesire for peace.
The ceasefire could validate President Ghani’s strategy to achieve a negotiated settlement.Ghaniofferedthe Taliban full political reconciliation in exchange for a ceasefire and the resumption of peace negotiations on February 28. The Taliban refused to acknowledge the offer officially, although multiple U.S. officials have claimed thatelements of the Taliban including “senior-level leaders” are “clearly interested” in talks with the Government of Afghanistan since Ghani’s peace offer.Ghani later unilaterallyannouncedthe ceasefire for Eid al-Fitr on June 7 despite ongoing operations by the Taliban thatthreatenedat least seven provincial capitals around Afghanistan. The Taliban bowed to public pressure andannouncedtheir own nominally-unrelated ceasefire on June 9. Ghani has attempted to leverage the apparent success of the truce to spur further political progress. Ghaniannounceda unilateral ten-day extension of the ceasefire - until June 30 – on June 17. He also stressed that his government is open to negotiations with the Taliban on “issues of mutual concern” including the “presence of foreign forces” in Afghanistan.
The Taliban leadership has thus far rejected further extension of a ceasefire and has resumed its attacks in some remote locations. The Taliban spokespersonstatedthat the group has “no intention to extend the ceasefire" on June 17 and resumed offensive operations throughout Afghanistan including on June 18. Taliban militants conducted significant attacks inFaryab,Badghis, andFarahProvinces since their ceasefire’s expiration. The Taliban may intend to exploit the government’s extended ceasefire to amass fighters and launch a coordinated operation againstvulnerableprovincial capitals in Faryab or Farah Provinces. The Taliban also executed smaller attacksin many provinces where joint celebrations occurred such asKunduz,Logar,Nangarhar, andHelmand.
Implications
The Taliban faces a potential rift between its leadership and rank-and-file militants in Afghanistan that threatens the Taliban’s cohesiveness.Taliban militants repeatedlyviolateda formal directive from their leadership to avoid government-controlled areas on June 16. Taliban fighters alsodemandedan extension to the ceasefire in parts of Paktika Provincecontrolledby the hardline Haqqani Network. The Taliban released an official post-ceasefire statement stressing the organizational cohesion and control demonstrated by the “successful implementation” of the truce despite the clear violations of leadership orders.2The Taliban leadership also allegedlyconsidereda ten-day ceasefire for late 2018 due to growing pressure for a negotiated settlement within the Taliban.The Government of Afghanistan and the U.S. could attempt to exploit the apparent divisions within the Taliban to split rank-and-file fighters from their leadership if the Taliban refuses to engage with Kabul.
The Taliban also faces a power struggle within its ruling Quetta Shura.The ceasefire could exacerbate ariftbetween Taliban leaders who are open to reconciliation and hardliners unwilling to negotiate a settlement. The joint celebrations reportedlysurprisedand angered some Taliban leaders including Taliban Second Deputy LeaderMullah Yaqoob.3Taliban leader Mullah Haibatullah Akhundzada – a reportedmoderate- may use widespread support for peace amongst the rank-and-file to consolidate his control within the Quetta Shura vis-à-vis hardliners such as Mullah Yaqoob and First Deputy LeaderSiraj Haqqani. This power struggle predates the ceasefire. Akhundzada reportedlyreshuffledmultiple shadow governors and senior leaders to increase his control over the movement in February 2018.Rumorsof additional post-ceasefire leadership changes may further demonstrate shifting dynamics in favor of Akhundzada. The weakening of hardliners like Haqqani - who maintainsclose tiesto al Qaeda and Pakistan - in favor of Akhundzada could open space for peace-inclined factions of the Taliban to pursue a negotiated settlement. Hardline elements are likely to continue the fight against Kabul.
The U.S. could exploit these apparent rifts in order to advance its strategic objectives in Afghanistan.The U.S. intends to use military and diplomatic means topressurethe Taliban to negotiate a peace settlement with the Government of Afghanistan.U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeostatedthat the U.S. is “prepared to support, facilitate, and participate” in peace negotiations that would include “a discussion of the role of international actors and forces” in Afghanistan on June 16. U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs Alice Wellsreaffirmedthe willingness to participate in negotiations but reiterated the established U.S. position that the Taliban must negotiate directly with the Government of Afghanistan on June 20. Incoming U.S. Forces – Afghanistan CommanderLt. Gen. Scott Miller has also testified that apolitical settlementmust end the War in Afghanistan.
The U.S. nonetheless must remain cautious that the peace process does not jeopardize its access to Afghanistan.Members of the both houses of the Afghan Parliament havecriticizedthe U.S. role in Afghanistan since May 2018. Some members of the upper house havecalledfor the review or cancellation of the Bilateral Security Agreement (BSA) between the U.S. and Afghanistan.4Meanwhile,peace protestersmarchingfrom Helmand Province to Kabul to encourage reconciliation with the Taliban have alsodemandeda specific timeline for the withdrawal of the U.S. from Afghanistan. Taliban sources have also claimed that a clearly-defined timeline for withdrawal could havepersuadedTaliban leadership to accept a ceasefire extension after Eid al-Fitr. These converging demands for the withdrawal of the U.S. from Afghanistan could begin to spiral into a widespread populist movement ahead of the scheduled 2018 Afghan Parliamentary Elections and 2019 Afghan Presidential Elections. The U.S. must not depart abruptly or under a fixed timeline but rather through a gradual drawdown after setting and testing the conditions for sustained peace in Afghanistan.
ISIS could also exploit the ceasefire and possibility of a negotiated settlement to expand its operations in Afghanistan.ISIS’s Afghanistan branch, ISIS Wilayat Khorasan,claimedtwo separateattacksthat targeted joint celebrations between the Taliban and ANSF in Nangarhar Province during Eid al-Fitr. The statementsnotedthat the attacks targeted gatherings of both the ANSF and “the apostate Taliban Movement.” The Taliban later released a post-ceasefirestatementarguing that the Taliban is the only movement leading “jihad across the country,” and adding that “multiple parties [are] not participating in this jihad.”5The statement - while directed against the U.S. assessment of a fractured jihadist movement in Afghanistan - may also highlight the Taliban leadership’s concern that the ceasefire will harm their credentials as the leaders of the jihad in Afghanistan. ISIS could position itself to recruitdissatisfied hardlinemembers of the Taliban if Taliban leadership begin openly pursuing a peaceful settlement with the Government of Afghanistan.
[1]The Government of Afghanistan initially announced a unilateral eight-day ceasefire from June 12 - 20 before extending it to June 30. The Taliban’s “unrelated” ceasefire only lasted from June 15 - 17.
[2]“Statement of Islamic Emirate regarding end of three day Eid ceasefire,”Voice of Jihad. June 17, 2018. https://alemarah-english(.)com/?p=30455%5C
[3]Mullah Yaqoob is the son of the Taliban’s founder – Mullah Omar.
[4]IncludingMohammad Alam Ezedyar – the First Deputy Speaker of the Afghan Parliament and a “leading” member of Jamiat-e Islami
[5]“Statement of Islamic Emirate regarding end of three day Eid ceasefire,”Voice of Jihad. June 17, 2018. https://alemarah-english(.)com/?p=30455%5C

Title: Afghanistan Coming Undone - Fair Observer
We rely on your support for our independence, diversity and quality.

This article saved into your bookmarks. Click here to view your bookmarks.
An analysis of the transitional process in Afghanistan and its struggle to attain stability.
There have been 10 years of debate, discussion, dispute, and deliberation over the world’s most important war. Yet, the question for Afghanistan remains the same: How will this war end? What’s certainly disconcerting is that the international community, so heavily invested in this war, seems nowhere closer to finding an answer to the question. While the International Security Assistance Forces (ISAF) and the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) have fought valiantly to limit the Taliban insurgency to only some pockets of the country, the bottom line is that violence still continues. The people have little respite from the endless fighting.
However, through some trials, and lots of errors, progress has been made in this war-torn nation. Now, as the international community and Afghanistan take their first steps towards undertaking a complete transition of authority to the Afghan government, its chances of success are worthy of discussion.
Because security is the foremost preoccupation of the international coalition, and of the Afghans, NATO has made an immense effort to persuade more Afghans to join the right side of the fight. After facing a great deal of challenges, the report card is beginning to look better. Numbers of soldiers in the ANA (Afghan National Army) and officers in the ANP (Afghan National Police) have risen to the occasion. As reported in the March 2011 NATO factsheetMedia Backgrounder, Afghan National Security Forces,NATO’s Joint Coordinating and Monitoring Board announced new troop targets for the ANA (171,600) and ANP (134,000), to be reached by October 2011. As of May 2011, ANA troop numbers were up to 164,000 and ANP numbers were up to 126,000, according to a US Department of Defense press announcement; this was an increase from approximately 50,000 and around 21,000, respectively, as stated in NATO’sReport on Progress in Afghanistanin 2011.
Apart from simply increasing the quantity, NATO’s Training Mission in Afghanistan (NTM-A) reports positively about improved leadership training (16,000 Non-commissioned officers in 2011, compared to only 1,950 in November 2009), improved marksmanship of the troops (ANA weapons qualification has increased from 35% in 2009 to 95% in 2011) and improved literacy rates among the troops (50% of all ANSF troops will be literate by the end of 2011) inMedia Backgrounder.
One of the biggest achievements of the ANSF was the successful execution of Operation Moshtarak in 2010, a massive counter-insurgency offensive carried out in Marjah in Helmand province, a town which was entirely under insurgent control. NATO’s reportMedia Backgrounder, Marjah: 1 year On,published in March 2011, indicates significant improvement in the province, including construction of schools, health clinics, as well as the institutionalization of a local police force and election of 20 government officials. It represents a fine example of the comprehensive civil-military approach that NATO has been using.
The international coalition in Afghanistan has also succeeded in establishing a democratic system of government. Indeed, this was one of the objectives of the Bush administration’s launching Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan in 2001- apart from hunting down Bin Laden and destroying Al Qa’eda. Afghanistan is in fact a democracy today- albeit a flawed one. This system should make it easier for the international community to assist and help rebuild Afghanistan, post the ISAF pull-out and throughout the transitional process. After all, democracies are natural allies, and some of the emerging key players in this conflict, such as India, will definitely find it an easier country to deal with, as long as it remains democratic. This was reasserted in NATO’s Conference on Afghanistan held in London in 2010, which adopted a strategy for transition called ‘Inteqal’, which, as enumerated inMedia Backgrounder, Transition to Afghan Lead: Inteqal,highlights the role the Afghan government will need to play for a favorable transition.
Another commendable gain has been  the effort to rebuild the nation.  According to the CIA Factbook, Afghanistan has some of the worst indicators of human development in terms of population living in poverty (36%, 2008), population’s access to sanitation (63%, 2008), infant mortality rates (149.2 deaths/ 1000 births, 2ndhighest in the world, 2011) and among the lowest female literacy rates in the world (12.6%, 2000). A large and challenging part of rebuilding Afghanistan has been trying to inhibit its massive opium production and consequent illegal narcotics trade. As Gilles Dorronsoro explains in his articleAfghanistan: The Impossible Transition, The Carnegie Papers,the size of the opium industry has crippled the Afghan economy by providing opportunities for corrupt officials to further expand their wealth and undermine the progress made with respect to security. A recent report by the Special Inspector General for Afghan Reconstruction (SIGAR), says that the U.S. has poured in 70 billion dollars in security and aid since 2001. Billions more have been poured in from other countries to get Afghanistan back on its feet. Efforts range from building Afghanistan’s physical infrastructure, such as improving access to water, sanitation and electricity, to improving Afghanistan’s political and social institutions, as well economic recovery initiatives in areas that have been stabilized and secured. As noted by the CIA Factbook, some tangible improvements of this enormous international development effort include a rise in adult literacy rates to 28.1%, the steadily improving growth rate in GDP to  8.2% in 2010. In addition, opium cultivation per hectare is reducing gradually from a record high of 193,000 ha under cultivation in 2007, down to 123,000 ha in 2010, according to UNODC,Afghanistan Opium Survey, Summary Findingspublished in September 2010.
In spite of these gains, it is no hidden fact that Afghanistan is still in shambles. In terms of governance and security, Afghanistan remains tremendously weak. Those aspects of stability are so fragile that it is no surprise that Afghanistan ranked 7thon the Failed States Index in 2011, as is pointed out in Dorronso’s article.
According to Dorronsoro’s recent paper on the transitional process, apart from the insurgency, we are also witnessing the progressive “deconstruction” of the state, at least in cases where institutions were initially functioning. The report mentions that the functioning of certain institutions is increasingly disconnected from the political control of populations. Thus, the National Solidarity Programme (NSP), clinics, and schools are operating in rather large areas, often outside of government control. Furthermore, the weakness of the governance and political structures in place and the inability of the government to intervene outside of district capitals largely limit its relevance in daily life. For example, for months, Kapisa has had no governor. These circumstances give an impetus to, rather than hinder, the narcotics industry in Afghanistan. A spike in opium production in certain border provinces is another sign of the lack of government control, Dorronso notes. The only supporters of the government today are largely independent border tribes that are protecting their contraband trade and former commanders who continue to be major players in the political game.
In addition, Afghan security forces (i.e. the police and the army) are far from capable containing the insurgents on their own. The ANA forces are not autonomous, nor are they highly motivated to fight the insurgents. Dorronso also points out that they lack important skills such as mine detection and capacities such as air support, which makes them unable to leave their bases. In fact, NATO’sAfghan National Security Forcesarticle argues that much of the problem is related to the fact that to date, the ANA has been an infantry-centric force. The bottom line is that in spite of efforts to improve the ANA, the forces are unable to stabilize the security situation. The ANP inspires even less confidence in security. The deaths of prominent politicians in the south such as Ahmed Wali Karzai and Jan Muhammad Khan are a clear indication of this. In 2009, one of the most pressing issues facing the ANP was that the majority of Afghan Uniformed Police (AUP) were recruited and assigned to duty without formal training. This has led the Afghan population to perceive the AUP as corrupt and inept.
This precarious governance and security environment undoubtedly dulls the chances of a successful transition of power from the coalition to the Afghan government. Thus, the aspirations that the international community had for Afghanistan in 2001 remain largely unaccomplished in 2011. Disappointing as that may be, it’s much more upsetting to see the hopes of 29 million Afghans being shattered, repeatedly.
However, even in this bleak scenario, there is some hope. The coalition and the Afghans can overcome both hurdles—battling the insurgency and subsequently facilitating a successful transition—through  one sustained and committed effort after engaging in a dialogue with the Taliban. This step is imperative, although it has been long neglected by members of the international community engaged in Afghanistan. By reinvesting itself in direct and secret talks with the Taliban, the U.S. has realized, rather belatedly, that diplomacy is pivotal. Since the objectives and the outcomes of the talks are mostly left to speculation, we can only assume that one certain possible outcome could be a power-broking deal: to accommodate the Taliban leaders in Afghanistan’s future government and overall political process. This is no doubt crucial to end the insurgency. The end of the insurgency could also lift much  pressure from the Afghan government, the ripple effects of which could reduce corruption and the illicit narcotics trade. Reaching a diplomatic solution with the Taliban could also mean a much more facile environment for the international community’s continuing development efforts.
However, if these talks were to be a success, and the Taliban were to win a place in Afghan politics, one must ask, who loses? Clearly the biggest losers would be the people of Afghanistan. After nearly ten years of war, they would be left with a highly corrupt government, in charge of a volatile security situation, comprised of the very enemy they wanted to see ousted. Of course, Gilles Dorronsoro points out that the Afghan peoples’ affiliations have also oscillated between the coalition forces and the insurgents as the two sides fought over winning hearts and minds in the war against terror. However, for Afghans, it may have always been a case of choosing the lesser of two evils. Indeed, Afghans may never have been presented with a legitimate choice for determining their future during the last 10 years. The messy process of ‘nation-building’ has left all social institutions in nebulous and fragile condition. Citizen-driven choice seems to be a privilege rather than a right in democratic Afghanistan. Unlike the people of the Arab nations revolting against their repressive governments, Afghan society has been left so feeble that such a type of grass root movement is improbable, if not impossible.
Thus, it is quite likely that this war will not end well. In fact, the mistakes the coalition has made in the course of the last ten years will cost them very dearly in terms of making a successful transition. The failure to adequately build stable political and social institutions in order to improve security, empower the people, and rebuild the nation implies a tortuous and disorganized transitional process. Once again, the biggest losers will be the citizens of Afghanistan, left with no choice but to contend with their fate.
You must belogged into post a comment.
We rely on your support for our independence, diversity and quality.
For more than 10 years, Fair Observer has been free, fair and independent. No billionaire
							owns us, no advertisers control us. We are a reader-supported nonprofit. Unlike many other
							publications, we keep our content free for readers regardless of where they live or whether
							they can afford to pay. We have no paywalls and no ads.
In the post-truth era of fake news, echo chambers and filter bubbles, we publish a plurality
							of perspectives from around the world. Anyone can publish with us, but everyone goes through
							a rigorous editorial process. So, you get fact-checked, well-reasoned content instead of
							noise.
We publish 2,500+ voices from 90+ countries. We also conduct education and training programs
							on subjects ranging from digital media and journalism to writing and critical thinking. This
							doesn’t come cheap. Servers, editors, trainers and web developers cost
							money.Please consider supporting us on a regular basis as a recurring donor or a
								sustaining member.
We rely on your support for our independence, diversity and quality.
Per Month
Unique Insights from 2,500+ Contributors in 90+ Countries

New to Fair Observer? Register Now
New to Fair Observer? Register Now
We rely on your support for our independence, diversity and quality.

*Indicates required field






Fair Observer is a 501(c)(3) independent nonprofit. We are not owned by billionaires or controlled by
                    advertisers. We publish nearly 3,000 authors from over 90 countries after fact-checking and editing each
                    piece. We do not have a paywall and anyone can read us for free. With your vital donations, we can
                    continue
                    to do our work.Please make a recurring (or even one-time) donation today.Even $1 goes a long waybecause
                    a
                    million donors
                    like you mean one million dollars. Thank you for keeping us independent, free and fair.
Unique Insights from 2,500+ Contributors in 90+ Countries
Total Views: 339

Title: Five Questions With C. Christine Fair on India, Afghanistan, and Iran | Council on Foreign Relations
Climate Change
Global Climate Agreements: Successes and Failures
Backgrounderby Lindsay MaizlandDecember 5, 2023Renewing America
Myanmar
Myanmar’s Troubled History
Backgrounderby Lindsay MaizlandJanuary 31, 2022
Health
How Tobacco Laws Could Help Close the Racial Gap on Cancer
Interactiveby Olivia  Angelino,Thomas J. Bollyky, Elle Ruggiero and Isabella TurilliFebruary 1, 2023Global Health Program
Iran
Israel and the Middle East at a Crossroads: How Tehran’s Terror Campaign Threatens the U.S. and our Allies
TestimonybyElliott AbramsSeptember 19, 2024
Oil and Petroleum Products
Academic Webinar: The Geopolitics of Oil
Webinarwith Carolyn Kissane andIrina A. FaskianosApril 12, 2023
Economics
C. Peter McColough Series on International Economics With Lael Brainard
Virtual Eventwith Lael Brainard andRoger W. Ferguson Jr.March 2, 2021C. Peter McColough Series on International Economics
The U.S. exit from the Iran deal will affect Afghanistan. To learn more about how, and what this means for U.S. national interests, I spoke with Georgetown University ProfessorC. Christine Fair, a scholar of South Asian security with longstanding expertise on Afghanistan, Pakistan, India, and Iran. We spoke by phone (with follow-up by email) on her current research on this question. A lightly edited version of our exchange appears below.
You’ve been working on Afghanistan’s security, and the larger regional questions including Pakistan, India, and Iran. What are the most significant effects of the U.S. withdrawal from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) for Afghanistan?
In the soccer expression, this is an “own goal.” [President Donald J.] Trump has said he’ll be more forceful, that he will not tolerate Pakistan’s perfidious behavior, and that he will cut off assistance. But what he’ll find out—and likely has already found out—is that he will run up against the same barriers that [former President Barack] Obama ran up against. These barriers make any significant change in Pakistan policy very difficult.
More on:
India
Afghanistan
Iran
Afghanistan War
The most important barrier is geography. We are still nearly completely dependent upon Pakistani air space and ground lines of communication (GLOCs). In 2011, when Pakistan shut down the GLOCs, we shifted to moving things through Pakistan’s air space. This was more expensive, but the expense was offset by the saving incurred by not providing Pakistan Coalition Support Funds for the duration that the GLOCs were closed. Currently, we are predominantly supplying ourselves through Pakistan’s air lines of communication (ALOCs). We are using Pakistan’s GLOCs to resupply the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF). The Northern Distribution Network [NDN, an alternate supply route pressed into service in 2011] was always a fiasco—you need only look at a map to see why. It was never used for anything substantive with the exception of fuel. The Russians were always clear that it could not be used for anything lethal, which is a problem if you’re fighting a war. So this is why, for all the bluster, the actual policy toward Pakistan has not changed and is unlikely to change. The Pakistanis could shut down the lines. There is an assumption among U.S. military [leadership] that Pakistan would not take those steps—such as closing down the air space—as it would be tantamount to an “act of war.” I am not sure how sensible this assumption is. And remember, Trump is expanding our presence [in Afghanistan], which is to say, we are more dependent upon Pakistan than we were before Trump’s new policy. And it is Pakistan that is largely responsible for providing all manner of support to those groups, such as the Haqqani network and the Taliban, which are murdering our allies in and out of uniform in Afghanistan as well as our troops.
The promulgation of the JCPOA created interesting possibilities. It was conceivable that we could have begun moving things—at least for the ANSF or potentially for the U.S. forces—through Chabahar. Or one could have even considered moving matériel through that very short distance of Iranian air space. I am not suggesting swapping one dubious partner for another; however, just having another partner would have helped put pressure on Pakistan and relieved our dependence upon Pakistan.
Even prior to the JCPOA, the United States and the Iranians were on the same page in a general sense: that we didn’t want the Taliban back in power [and] we wanted to resist Pakistan’s efforts to promote Sunni extremists in the country. With the U.S. withdrawal from the JCPOA we not only have lost an important opportunity to develop an alternate route which would benefit American interests in Afghanistan, but we have also jeopardized the viability of Chabahar itself, which will harm Afghanistan’s economic interests over the long term.
What do you mean by the viability of Chabahar itself?
A deep sea port by itself is not a useful entity. For firms to send their ships to Chabahar, there must be a commercial ecosystem that includes companies that manage the flow of ships, enterprises to offload cargo from the ships and onto other conveyances, firms that provide ship maintenance and resupply, [and] transport companies that move cargo between ships and road and rail, among other enterprises. Usually deep sea ports are accompanied by special economic zones and are fitted with terminals to move oil and/or gas from the ships to smaller vehicles for distribution. Giant container ships are extremely vulnerable to wind and tide, and there are few companies that can handle these kinds of ships. In other words, the port is not itself an asset of interest. Without the system of commercial activity, the port itself is useless as no one will send their cargo to that port. A good example of a port that is not being used is the Chinese-built deep sea port in Gwadar (Pakistan).
Even prior to Trump assuming the presidency, investors were wary of putting money into Chabahar because they were not clear whether such investments would run afoul of U.S. law. These investors were looking for a clarion signal from the United States. Without those investors—whose business will help convert the port from an empty space to one that sees a healthy traffic of ships with the means of moving cargo to and from the ships to road and rail routes—Chabahar will not be a viable port. At the end of day, there has to be a value proposition. No one will want to use Chabahar if there are competitive alternatives.
More on:
India
Afghanistan
Iran
Afghanistan War
A year ago I was in a trilateral with Indians, Iranians, [and] Afghans. At that time, there was still not a clear American “go ahead” to international investors to make this a practicable deep sea port. Without such a clear signal from Washington, no one wanted to put money into this project only to discover that they could not do business with U.S. financial institutions. Obviously, Trump has made this inordinately more difficult by withdrawing from the JCPOA. Without those investors who make this port enterprise remunerative, the port itself will not become a transport hub.
And the effect on Afghanistan? Why is this important for Afghanistan?
Because Afghanistan is completely dependent on Pakistan for imports and exports. Afghanistan has no other cost-effective access to warm water. For Afghanistan to be able to pursue its own independent foreign policy, it needs access to Chabahar. There are no other cost-effective access points for Afghanistan. As discussed, the NDN is a system of transit networks across numerous countries’ ground and air space, which requires bilateral agreement and transit costs that add up. Many analysts labor under the illusion that this is a material alternative to Pakistan and thus obviates Chabahar. But one need only look at a map to see why the various routes tied to the NDN are hugely expensive, inefficient, and simply make Afghanistan dependent upon Russia instead of Pakistan because Russia exercises enormous influence over the Central Asian states that comprise the NDN.
For many of us who watch this region, the question of the day is: how can we foster a community to protect Chabahar in the wake of the U.S. withdrawal from the JCPOA specifically, and more generally as U.S. traditional leadership in Asia seems in peril?
I fear that that we can expect increasing hedging from traditional allies in Asia and maybe even greater alignment with China, which is expanding to fill the void that United States has left.
Needless to say, India and China are direct competitors in Chabahar. China was anxious to step into Chabahar if India did not manage to get the job done. But this may be a place where we need India and China to help create a safe investment space to make Chabahar viable despite their competition elsewhere. If we think the China option is a bridge too far, then we have to ask ourselves: what are the other options? The Japanese are no longer interested in Chabahar. Is it possible to establish some sort of insurance program that would protect investors? At the end of the day, we have a collective action problem as all these different countries are hedging against each other and uncertainty about American leadership and policies. The upside of countries gravitating toward China is the possibility of protecting Chabahar. However, unless India can persuaded that this is a good thing, this may rile India even though it does not have the assets to make Chabahar sustainable on its own. India has a lot at stake, which may make India more inclined to be competitive rather than cooperative with China.
China is needed in Afghanistan for other reasons. Namely, Afghanistan needs a railway. There are already railheads in Iran, Uzbekistan, and Tajikistan to which Afghanistan can link up. This means that Afghanistan is close to being connected with rail lines to these neighboring countries. But what country is both capable of building such a railway and adequately risk acceptant to consider doing so? China is probably the only possibility. However, such a proposition will most certainly disquiet India.
Afghanistan needs the two biggest actors, China and India, to forswear their competition elsewhere to cooperate there. This is a hard ask of New Delhi.
During Obama’s tenure, the Indians were signaling that they could take on more in Afghanistan. This created some exciting possibilities. For example, why couldn’t the Indians supply the ANSF with uniforms and be responsible for moving them into Afghanistan—possibly through Chabahar? It is an expensive proposition for Americans to be sourcing these uniforms. India has a huge footprint of making and supplying uniforms. Why are we dependent on Pakistani GLOCs for this? The geography of Afghanistan is not going to change—there are two easy ways into Afghanistan: Pakistan or Iran. If the United States wants to increase the odds of helping to forge an Afghanistan that can stand up to Pakistan, the United States needs to realize that Iran is a better bet than Pakistan.
In earlierU.S. Iran sanctions legislation, there was the possibility of an exception specifically written in for “reconstruction assistance or economic development for Afghanistan.” Under this provision, an exception could have been made for Chabahar if one were to tie it to needs in Afghanistan.
This is a superb point, which I forgot to note. In principle this is correct. But to make the argument that Chabahar should get an exception to advance goals in Afghanistan would require the Trump regime to muster political will and expend political capital. I think a successor to Obama would have been willing to do this. But, let’s be frank: the Iran policy pursued by the Trump regime is not driven principally by U.S. security interests. Instead, Trump is pursuing Israel’s interests as a part of his fervent appeals to the American evangelical voter. Obama was more willing to confront Israel. Trump has gone out of his way to appease Israel largely for U.S. domestic political concerns. If Trump or his policy team cannot look at a map, evaluate the data on terrorism and nuclear proliferation, and conclude that working with Iran to secure Afghanistan is far less deleterious to U.S. interests than working with Pakistan, I have a difficult time imagining how anyone in his administration would carve out an exception for Chabahar under the grounds that doing so would be advantageous to our efforts in Afghanistan. But yes, in principle, you are correct.
What about Japan’s involvement in investing in Chabahar? There have been numerous press articles about Japan’s interest.
From what I can tell, the Japanese are no longer interested. Japan wants to use its assets to check Chinese expansion. But it doesn’t make sense to place resources in a questionable business environment when doing so runs the risk of running afoul of U.S. financial sanctions.
My book about India’s rise on the world stage,Our Time Has Come: How India Is Making Its Place in the World,was just published by Oxford University Press in January. Follow me on Twitter:@AyresAlyssa. Or like me on Facebook (fb.me/ayresalyssa) or Instagram (instagr.am/ayresalyssa).
Blog Post
Article
Backgrounder

Title: Afghan Taliban Announces Three-Day Cease-Fire Over Eid Holiday - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
The Afghan Taliban has announced a three-day cease-fire over the Eid-al-Fitr holiday, their first offer of its kind, following an earlier unilateral cessation of hostilities announced by the government.
But the militant group warned that the suspension of fighting for the first three days of Eid-al-Fitr, the holiday that marks the end of the fasting month of Ramadan, did not extend to foreign forces, who would continue to be targeted.
Despite the announcement, officials said on June 9 that Taliban militants had killed over 40 government security personnel in attacks across the country.
At least 25 local policemen were killed when militants stormed three checkpoints in the Qala-e Zal district of the northern province of Kunduz on June 9, said Amanaddin Qureshi, the governor of neighboring Imam Sahib district.
Qureshi said eight militants were killed and nine wounded in the clashes.
In the western province of Herat, at least 17 Afghan soldiers were killed when Taliban fighters attacked a checkpoint in the Zawol district, provincial government spokesman Jelani Farhad said.
Farhad said at least 13 others were wounded in the attack.
Rare Positive Sign?
The unexpected cease-fire came two days after Afghan President Ashraf Ghani's own surprise announcement of a weeklong halt to operations against the Taliban and allied Haqqani network.
The government truce, which excludes the Islamic State (IS) extremist group and Al-Qaeda, will last from June 12 until around June 20. The Taliban's cease-fire is expected to run from June 15 to June 17.
It is the first time since the U.S.-led invasion of Afghanistan that toppled the Taliban regime in 2001 that the militants have declared a cease-fire, albeit a limited one.
Taliban fighters "are directed to stop offensive operations against Afghan forces for the first three days of Eid-al-Fitr," the group said in a statement on June 9. But it added that if attacked "we will strongly defend [ourselves].”
The statement said the Taliban may also consider releasing prisoners of war, if they promise not to return to the battlefield.
"We welcome the three days ceasefire announced by the Taliban starting on the first day of Eid," Ghani said on Twitter after the Taliban announcement.
Although the Taliban's cease-fire was not in direct response to Ghani's offer, it remains a rare positive sign for the troubled peace process.
"Taliban’s announcement of cease-fire with ANSF during Eid & indication to release some captives is encouraging & important step towards prospects for peace," Omar Zakhilwal, Afghanistan's ambassador to Paksitan, wrote on Twitter on June 9.
Ghani's decision came after Islamic clerics declared a fatwa, or ruling, against suicide bombings at a gathering in Kabul that itself was the target of a suicide attack claimed by IS militants that killed 14 people.
Ghani endorsed a recommendation by the clerics for a cease-fire with the Taliban.
Ghani has urged cease-fires with the Taliban before, but this was the first unconditional offer he made since he was elected in 2014.
Despite more aggressive military operations against the Taliban under a new approach adopted by U.S. President Donald Trump last year, the Taliban still hold large swaths of the country.
The United States had said its forces and coalition partners will honor the cease-fire.
The top U.S. general in Afghanistan said military operations against IS would intensify during the temporary cease-fire.
With reporting by AFP, dpa, and Reuters
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Major Barriers of Peace Talks  with the Taliban in Afghanistan  - The Daily Outlook Afghanistan, print and online English Newspaper
Afghanistan witnessed a short but promising 3 day  ceasefire during the EidulFitr. Shortly, after the 3 day ceasefire ended, the  Afghan government extended it to 10 more days and announced it was ready to  extend the ceasefire for a year if the Taliban agrees with it.  However, Taliban leaders on Sunday roughly  rejected the government’s proposal to extend the ceasefire and said they were  ordering all insurgent fighters to resume operations against “the foreign  invaders and their internal supporters.”The timing of the  unilateral ceasefire was very well elaborated and auspicious. Even, both sides  may had coordinated the ceasefire deals before being announced publicly.The Regional and International actors have  voiced strongly their support from the Afghan government peace initiative e.g.  U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo appeared ready to tweak the policy when he  welcomed Ghani’s 10-day extension of a ceasefire that is currently due to end  on Wednesday. “As President Ghani emphasized in his statement to the Afghan  people, peace talks by necessity would include a discussion of the role of  international actors and forces,” Pompeo said. “The United States is prepared  to support, facilitate, and participate in these discussions.” In addition to  this, Beijing and Moscow have welcomed President Ashraf Ghani’s recent  initiatives to promote peace in Afghanistan.In Beijing, the  Foreign Ministry on Tuesday said China appreciates Kabul’s efforts for  achieving peace in Afghanistan. He added Beijing remained willing to work with  the international community for peace in Afghanistan. Beijing would keep  playing a constructive role in stabilizing the war-hit country. Meanwhile,  Russia called the conflict in Afghanistan a ‘fratricidal war,’ hailing the  government’s decision to extend the ceasefire.As realizing peace in Afghanistan seems to be  one of the top national, regional and international agenda of some of the key  world players, the question which raises here is that, what are the obstacles  to peace with the Taliban in Afghanistan?We would identify  and discuss some of the fundamental obstacles that require to be addressed to  reach a sustainable peace deal with the Taliban. They include the following:The issue of  ‘foreign fighters’In 2013, Taliban  spokesman Sohail Shaheen stated: “The Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan  simultaneously follows both military and political options and aims which are  limited to Afghanistan.” This shows that the Taliban have distanced themselves  from the international terrorist groups including Al-Qaeda and its global jihad  as well.Then the question that needs to be answered  is, what will happen to the many foreign fighters in Afghanistan who supported  the Taliban?If a peace accord is  reached, will they arrest these fighters and surrender them to the government?  What would do the government with these fighters?It is clear that the  Taliban would not join hands with the Kabul government, backed by the US, to  fight al-Qaeda allies or ISIL. Therefore, would a peace accord have a real  impact on the conflict in the country? As the experience of Peace accord with  Hizb e Islami shows, in such case, a peace deal with the Taliban may not impact  greatly on the security situation in Afghanistan.Withdrawal of all  foreign forcesIn September 2014,  Afghanistan signed a bilateral security agreement with the US that allows  10,000 US troops to remain in the country.   And a similar agreement has been signed with NATO that allows 4,000 to  5,000 additional troops to stay in Afghanistan to provide training supports to  the ANSF.However, one of the  main demands Taliban has been the immediate and full withdrawal of all foreign  troops from Afghanistan. The question which shall be answered is, would the US  government agree to scuffle its security deal and leave, given the security  threats posed by ISIL and other terrorist groups against its national interests  from Afghanistan? Should Afghan government observe a two year notice to be  given before US and NATO begin their withdrawal? And what will happen to the  weapons of the Taliban during those two years?Reforming the  ConstitutionOne of the demands  by the Taliban that creates major concerns, is pushing for constitutional  reforms, with an emphasis on mentioning the word “sharia” in the Afghan  constitution instead of the “Islamic law”.Ensuring this demand  is facing 3 major obstacles: first, including the word “sharia” presents  challenges for donor countries, whose constituencies would oppose funding a  government that is constitutionally required to implement sharia. Second, if  the word “sharia” is not incorporated into the constitution, the Taliban would  see this as a major backlash. Third, it may pose certain barriers to religious  minority groups in Afghanistan as it was the case during the time they ruled  Afghanistan. They followed a strict and harsh approach both to other Islamic  religious groups including the Shias and Non-Islamic groups including the  Afghan Hindus and Sikhs. They also had a very restrictive and violent policy  against women in the country. As a result, position of the Taliban on women  should be clarified in any peace deal in the future.Sharing the PowerIt may be one of the  most conflicting demands by the Taliban. Since Power-sharing needs concrete  action - it is not merely a political practice encompassing signing agreements  and shaking hands.Indeed, based on a  peace deal, Taliban fighters should be integrated into the Afghan military and  security forces, and some key positions in government should be allocated to  Taliban officials.Based on the Bon  agreement, the power-sharing mechanism has been identified ensuring the  relative share of all the Afghan major ethnic groups. So far it is not clear if  these positions would be given to the Taliban from the Pashtuns share or power  out of the total share of the major ethnic groups of the country?As Afghanistan’s  current experiment in power-sharing between the two 2014 presidential  candidates, President Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Abdullah Abdullah, has  so far been a failure.  Further, there  are deep disputes at all levels in the country. As a result, power-sharing of  the government not only would be a chaos but could also be complicated by  internal divisions within the Taliban.In a nutshell, all  afghans support a peace deal with Taliban to put an end to the prolong conflict  of Afghanistan. At the same time, they want a transparent peace process,  including how concerns of minority groups including women, and religious groups  would be addressed in such a process. Sharing-power is already a conflict-prone  issue in the country and if there is not a consensus made on such a mechanism  among the major ethnic groups of Afghanistan, such a peace deal may not end the  current conflict.
Copyright ©2010www.outlookafghanistan.net - All Rights Reserved.

Title: How would Washington deal with 'PM Imran Khan'? – DW – 06/21/2018
Pakistani politician Imran Khan could become the country's next premier after the July 25 vote, but his stance against the US' role in Afghanistan could be a hurdle in the Trump administration's dealings with Islamabad.
Pakistani politician Imran Khanis known in the US as a philanthropist who operates a world-class charity hospital in his country. He is also admired as a sportsman whose stunning looks charmed many Western women. But he is yet to make an impact as a politician in Washington.
When DW asked US officials whether they would like to work with Khan if he became Pakistan's prime minister after the July 25 general election, they gave a smooth, diplomatic response, which says all without saying much.
"The US government supports a free and fair vote by the Pakistani people, and stands ready to partner with the leadership they choose to work on a shared agenda for regional peace and prosperity," said a State Department spokesperson.
Read more:US watches Pakistan's democratic transition with caution
The statement says a lot about the US position on Khan, who heads the popular Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf (PTI, Movement for Justice) party.
Khan is not a Bhutto or a Sharif that Washington has dealt with and knows how to cope with in a particular situation. But analysts say he will have to work with Washington to prevent militant attacks in both Afghanistan and India.
Read more:Pakistan has moved beyond Benazir Bhutto

Real power-wielders in Pakistan
In private conversations, former US diplomats and think-tank experts often recall a statement in which the cricketer-turned-politician threatened to shoot down any US drone that hits a target inside Pakistan if he was elected to power.
Khan's statement scared Pakistan's powerful military establishment as well. The generals feared that if elected, Khan could further strain Pakistan's already tense relations with the US.
But over the years, Khan has worked on polishing his statements and tries not to say something that he would later regret. He does not always succeed, as his recent anti-West statements show.
Read more:Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa — a difficult province to govern
The State Department, however, does not want to appear to be opposing a popular Pakistani politician — someone who is one of the favorites to win the next election.
But the State Department retains the key US demand of maintaining regional peace and prosperity.
"For the US, the idea of a Prime Minister Imran Khan may be unsettling, given how he and his party have been stridently anti-American in tone and messaging in ways that the PML-N (Pakistan Muslim League of former PM Nawaz Sharif) have not been," Michael Kugelman, an expert of South Asian affairs at the Woodrow Wilson Center for Scholars in Washington, told DW.
Kugelman also said the State Department understands the role of the military in Pakistani politics.
"At the same time, given that the Pakistani military has the final — and often times first — say in policy toward the US and given that the military is very keen on salvaging the US-Pakistan relationship, I wouldn't be surprised if a [possible] PTI-led government were to tone down its anti-American messaging and project a more conciliatory position toward Washington, at least initially," he said.
This is a hope that the State Department, obviously, shares with him but is unwilling to say so publicly.
Earlier this month, when Washington felt the need to solicit Pakistan's support for a temporary ceasefire in Afghanistan, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo did not call the Pakistani prime minister, foreign minister or even the president; instead, he telephoned the country's army chief, General Qamar Javed Bajwa. And the general not only did what Washington wanted, he also flew over to Kabul to discuss the possibilities of a durable peace with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani.
Read more:
Will former wife's 'tell-all' book hurt Imran Khan in upcoming Pakistan election?
Why ousted Pakistani PM Nawaz Sharif turned against the powerful military
Pakistan: One step forward, two steps back

Working with the US
Diplomatic observers in Washington say that the Trump administration now wants Islamabad to use its influence on the Taliban, particularly on the militant Haqqani network, to make them talk to Kabul.
So there's little surprise that Pakistan experts in Washington, both in the official and unofficial circles, believe that the army can also make Khan behave.
"The trend lines for US-Pakistan relations are not good no matter what party takes over the next Pakistani government. But I don't think a PTI-led government would necessarily make it any worse," said Kugelman, underlining another key point: the new government in Pakistan — no matter who heads it — will have to work hard to rebuild the once-close relationship with Washington.
Hussain Haqqani, a former Pakistani ambassador to the US, and now a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington, says that the US would deal with Khan as "they have with every Pakistani leader, even those elected amid anti-American rhetoric."
"Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto portrayed himself as anti-American and yet went to see President Richard Nixon before taking office, to explain that he wanted US blessings even though he was seen as an America baiter," Haqqani told DW, referring to a popular Pakistani prime minister who was hanged by military dictator General Zia-ul-Haq in 1979.
Haqqani, who has authored a book on the history of US-Pakistan relations, recalled that in 1990, Nawaz Sharif did the same in his first term as prime minister and "Imran Khan is likely to be no different."
Read more:Imran Khan: Nawaz Sharif's ouster 'strengthens Pakistani democracy'
He will tone down his anti-US rhetoric and seek Washington's cooperation in both domestic and external issues, said Haqqani.
Haqqani, however, warned that this time, the Americans may not be as keen to oblige as they did in the past. "The level of American interest in and commitment to Pakistan has declined significantly from what it was in the past," he said.
And the level of support from both external and internal players will determine how long an inning Imran Khan plays on this new pitch, if he is elected.
Read more:Husain Haqqani: 'Pakistani military fears ethno-linguistic identities'

Title: How would Washington deal with 'PM Imran Khan'? – DW – 06/21/2018
Pakistani politician Imran Khan could become the country's next premier after the July 25 vote, but his stance against the US' role in Afghanistan could be a hurdle in the Trump administration's dealings with Islamabad.
Pakistani politician Imran Khanis known in the US as a philanthropist who operates a world-class charity hospital in his country. He is also admired as a sportsman whose stunning looks charmed many Western women. But he is yet to make an impact as a politician in Washington.
When DW asked US officials whether they would like to work with Khan if he became Pakistan's prime minister after the July 25 general election, they gave a smooth, diplomatic response, which says all without saying much.
"The US government supports a free and fair vote by the Pakistani people, and stands ready to partner with the leadership they choose to work on a shared agenda for regional peace and prosperity," said a State Department spokesperson.
Read more:US watches Pakistan's democratic transition with caution
The statement says a lot about the US position on Khan, who heads the popular Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf (PTI, Movement for Justice) party.
Khan is not a Bhutto or a Sharif that Washington has dealt with and knows how to cope with in a particular situation. But analysts say he will have to work with Washington to prevent militant attacks in both Afghanistan and India.
Read more:Pakistan has moved beyond Benazir Bhutto

Real power-wielders in Pakistan
In private conversations, former US diplomats and think-tank experts often recall a statement in which the cricketer-turned-politician threatened to shoot down any US drone that hits a target inside Pakistan if he was elected to power.
Khan's statement scared Pakistan's powerful military establishment as well. The generals feared that if elected, Khan could further strain Pakistan's already tense relations with the US.
But over the years, Khan has worked on polishing his statements and tries not to say something that he would later regret. He does not always succeed, as his recent anti-West statements show.
Read more:Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa — a difficult province to govern
The State Department, however, does not want to appear to be opposing a popular Pakistani politician — someone who is one of the favorites to win the next election.
But the State Department retains the key US demand of maintaining regional peace and prosperity.
"For the US, the idea of a Prime Minister Imran Khan may be unsettling, given how he and his party have been stridently anti-American in tone and messaging in ways that the PML-N (Pakistan Muslim League of former PM Nawaz Sharif) have not been," Michael Kugelman, an expert of South Asian affairs at the Woodrow Wilson Center for Scholars in Washington, told DW.
Kugelman also said the State Department understands the role of the military in Pakistani politics.
"At the same time, given that the Pakistani military has the final — and often times first — say in policy toward the US and given that the military is very keen on salvaging the US-Pakistan relationship, I wouldn't be surprised if a [possible] PTI-led government were to tone down its anti-American messaging and project a more conciliatory position toward Washington, at least initially," he said.
This is a hope that the State Department, obviously, shares with him but is unwilling to say so publicly.
Earlier this month, when Washington felt the need to solicit Pakistan's support for a temporary ceasefire in Afghanistan, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo did not call the Pakistani prime minister, foreign minister or even the president; instead, he telephoned the country's army chief, General Qamar Javed Bajwa. And the general not only did what Washington wanted, he also flew over to Kabul to discuss the possibilities of a durable peace with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani.
Read more:
Will former wife's 'tell-all' book hurt Imran Khan in upcoming Pakistan election?
Why ousted Pakistani PM Nawaz Sharif turned against the powerful military
Pakistan: One step forward, two steps back

Working with the US
Diplomatic observers in Washington say that the Trump administration now wants Islamabad to use its influence on the Taliban, particularly on the militant Haqqani network, to make them talk to Kabul.
So there's little surprise that Pakistan experts in Washington, both in the official and unofficial circles, believe that the army can also make Khan behave.
"The trend lines for US-Pakistan relations are not good no matter what party takes over the next Pakistani government. But I don't think a PTI-led government would necessarily make it any worse," said Kugelman, underlining another key point: the new government in Pakistan — no matter who heads it — will have to work hard to rebuild the once-close relationship with Washington.
Hussain Haqqani, a former Pakistani ambassador to the US, and now a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington, says that the US would deal with Khan as "they have with every Pakistani leader, even those elected amid anti-American rhetoric."
"Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto portrayed himself as anti-American and yet went to see President Richard Nixon before taking office, to explain that he wanted US blessings even though he was seen as an America baiter," Haqqani told DW, referring to a popular Pakistani prime minister who was hanged by military dictator General Zia-ul-Haq in 1979.
Haqqani, who has authored a book on the history of US-Pakistan relations, recalled that in 1990, Nawaz Sharif did the same in his first term as prime minister and "Imran Khan is likely to be no different."
Read more:Imran Khan: Nawaz Sharif's ouster 'strengthens Pakistani democracy'
He will tone down his anti-US rhetoric and seek Washington's cooperation in both domestic and external issues, said Haqqani.
Haqqani, however, warned that this time, the Americans may not be as keen to oblige as they did in the past. "The level of American interest in and commitment to Pakistan has declined significantly from what it was in the past," he said.
And the level of support from both external and internal players will determine how long an inning Imran Khan plays on this new pitch, if he is elected.
Read more:Husain Haqqani: 'Pakistani military fears ethno-linguistic identities'

Title: No title found


Title: Who is Taliban leader Mullah Fazlullah? – DW – 06/15/2018
The reported death of Mullah Fazlullah, leader of the Pakistani Taliban, is likely to reduce tensions between Washington and Islamabad, but it is unclear whether Pakistan will support Afghan peace efforts.
Mullah Fazlullah – nicknamed "Mullah Radio" for his radical sermons on a Pakistan-based local radio station – was the leader of the Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP). He hailed from Swat district of Pakistan's northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkwa province.
In 2007, Fazlullah established a parallel government in Swat and enforced Shariah (Islamic law). A subsequent military operation in 2009 forced him to flee to Afghanistan's northeastern Kunar province.
"In 2009, Pakistani officials claimed that Fazlullah was wounded in a raid, but later it was revealed that he had moved to Afghanistan. It is believed that he had stayed in Afghanistan until his reported death," Shamim Shahid, a Peshawar-based journalist, told DW.
In March, US State Department announced a 5-million-dollar bounty on Fazlullah's head.
Read more:Abdullah Abdullah: ‘Nobody promised Afghanistan will be paradise in 2, 3 years’
Is Fazlullah really dead?
Afghanistan's Defense Ministry confirmed Fazlullah's death on Friday, sayingthe militant leader was killed in a joint operationof Afghan and NATO forces in the country's east.
"I confirm that Mullah Fazlullah, leader of the Pakistani Taliban, has been killed in a joint air operation in the border area of Marawera district of Kunar province," Mohammad Radmanish, spokesman for the defense ministry, told media.
The NATO-led Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan also confirmed the killing, according to Reuters news agency.
The US military had earlier said that it had carried out a strike against a senior militant figure in Kunar, which borders Pakistani.
The Pakistani Taliban have so far not commented on Fazlullah's alleged killing.
"The TTP is likely to deny the news at first, but it will confirm it a later stage," said Rahimullah Yusufzai, a defense analyst and bureau chief ofThe News Internationalnewspaper in Peshawar.
Read more:What is Pakistan's militancy issue all about?
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
A thaw in US-Pakistan ties?
Fazlullah was wanted in Pakistan's 2014 military school attack that killed 132 children. He was also accused of being involved in a 2012 failed murder attempt against Nobel Peace Prize winner Malala Yousafzai.
If confirmed, Fazlullah's death could be a huge blow to the TTP.
"Fazlullah was accused of planning and carrying out attacks on the Pakistani military's border posts. His killing would be welcomed by Pakistan," Wahid Muzhdah, a Kabul-based Taliban expert, told DW.
The US attack on Fazlullah has the potential to ease tensions between Washington and Islamabad. On a number of occasions, Islamabad had demanded that Afghan authotrities act against the Islamist leader.
US-Pakistan ties have deteriorated in the past few years. Earlier this year, Washington stopped its military aid to Islamabad, alleging that Pakistani authorities did not want to take decisive action against militant groups, including the Haqqani Network.
"The alleged killing proves that negotiations between Pakistan and the US are underway and that the two countries are cooperation again," Yusufzai said.
Future of Afghan peace process
The Afghan Taliban have already agreed toa three-day ceasefireduring Eid holidays. Kabul and Washington believe Islamabad can facilitate Afghan peace talks and pressure the Taliban leaders to negotiate their demands with the Afghan government.
Read more:Hamid Karzai: Former Afghan president hopeful for 'permanent peace' with Taliban
The killing of Fazlullah, according to experts, could encourage Pakistan to help Afghan President Ashraf Ghani in his peace efforts.
"This incident shows that Islamabad and Kabul are working to improve ties by meeting each other's demands," Muzhdah said.
Others say that Pakistan would likely to use Islamist militants as "proxy jihadists" to create instability in Afghanistan and would not give up on its "bargaining chip" until Western troops completely withdraw from its neighborhood.

Title: Global watchdog places Pakistan on terror watchlist – DW – 06/28/2018
Pakistan has been put on a terror financing watchlist by a global watchdog. Following the 37-nation bloc's decision on Wednesday, Islamabad lifted a ban on a radical Sunni leader with alleged ties to al Qaeda.
The Financial Action Task Force (FATF), an inter-governmental body, placed Pakistan on its "gray list" on Wednesday, as part of a week-long meeting underway in Paris.
The move means that Pakistan's financial system has been designated as posing a risk to the international financial system because of "strategic deficiencies" in its ability to prevent terror financing and money laundering, Pakistan's Dawn newspaper said in a report on Thursday.
In February, the South Asian country got a three-month notice from the global money-laundering watchdog to squeeze funding for terrorist groups operating on its soil.
After reviewing the progress, the 37-nation bloc found that Islamabad had done little to comply with its demands, although Pakistani authorities say they have cracked down on Islamists.
Only Turkey and China opposed the proposal to put Pakistan in the FATF "gray list," but that was not sufficient to block the decision. Saudi Arabia, which backed Pakistan in February, gave up its support in Wednesday's vote.
The FATF move is likely to hurt Pakistan's economy, which is reeling from a violent Islamist insurgency and an acute energy crisis.
The FATF "gray list" list also features Ethiopia, Yemen, Iraq, Syria, Serbia, Sri Lanka, Trinidad and Tobago, Vanuatu and Tunisia. In February, Bosnia and Herzegovina were shifted to the "white list." Pakistan was also put on the list from 2012 to 2015.
Failure to comply with FATF demands could see Pakistan "blacklisted," a status currently applied to Iran and North Korea only.
Read more:Pakistan Taliban leader Mullah Fazlullah reportedly killed in US drone strike
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
Pakistan defiant?
Azam Khan, Pakistan's interim interior minister, accused the US and European nations of pressuring the FATF to take the decision.
Fida Khan, a Pakistani security analyst, told DPA news agency the FATF decision would increase pressure on Islamabad as Washington intensifies its efforts to force Pakistan to cooperate in Afghanistan.
"Pakistan will be under obligation and pressure," Fida Khan said.
Meanwhile, Pakistan, which has a caretaker government in place ahead of the July 25 parliamentary elections, removed Muhammad Ahmed Ludhianvi, a radical Sunni group leader, from a domestic terror watchlist. The country's election commission will now consider whether Ludhianvi of Ahle-e-Sunnat Wal Jamaat (ASWJ) can contest July polls.
Read more:US watches Pakistan's democratic transition with caution
US pressure
US President DonaldTrump has increased pressure on Pakistanto crack down on Islamist militants who launch attacks on NATO and Afghan troops inside Afghanistan. In February, the US spent weeks lobbying member countries of the FATF to place Pakistan on the list of countries that pose a risk to the international financial system. Germany, Britain and France had backed the move.
Last year, Trump announced an aggressive Afghanistan strategy, which identifies Pakistan as a "problem" rather than a "partner" in the war against terror.
"We've seen modest progress in terms of Pakistan's actual acknowledgement of these (US) concerns but the president is not satisfied with progress when it comes to Pakistan," said White House Principal Deputy Press Secretary Raj Shah in February.
In his first 2018 tweet, Trump lashed out at Pakistan: "The United States has foolishly given Pakistan more than 33 billion dollars in aid over the last 15 years, and they have given us nothing but lies & deceit, thinking of our leaders as fools. They give safe haven to the terrorists we hunt in Afghanistan, with little help. No more!," wrote Trump.
Read more:What is Pakistan's militancy issue all about?
Reuters news agency quoted Acting Assistant Secretary of State Alice Wells as saying in February that the US effort to have Pakistan put on the list was partly due to the Islamic country'sfailure to act against Hafiz Saeed, whose Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD)/Lashkar-e-Taiba organization are accused of orchestrating the deadly 2008 Mumbai attacks that killed 166 people.
"When we saw terrorists like Hafiz Saeed being released for the sixth time from house arrest or saw charitable arms of Lashkar-e-Taiba or Jaish-i-Mohammad operate freely, sometimes in front of police stations doing fund-raising exercises, it obviously raises serious concerns," Wells said in an interview.
The Trump administration has already reduced Pakistan's military aid. In January, the White House said it would continue to withhold $255 million (€211 million) in military aid for Pakistan due to its frustration with the nation's reluctance to dismantle terrorist networks on its soil. In August last year, the administration temporarily withheld the money, which was part of a Congress-approved $1.1 billion aid package for Pakistan.
Read more:
Husain Haqqani: 'US will no longer ignore Pakistan's militant support'
Donald Trump's Afghanistan strategy raises the stakes
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
Repercussions for Pakistan
"Islamabad has no other option but to act against militants. But let me be clear about one thing: the international community is demanding Pakistan's security establishment to put things in order; the civilian administration is not being admonished in this case," Khalid Hameed Farooqi, a Brussels-based senior Pakistani journalist and diplomatic affairs analyst, told DW.
He added that former PM Nawaz Sharif's government had taken several legislative actions to rein in Islamists, but the country's powerful military continued to back some proxy jihadist groups.
"Last year, the Pakistani government had sent several top diplomats to Washington, Paris and Brussels, to highlight Indian atrocities in Kashmir. But the officials in these Western capitals clearly told them to act against Hafiz Saeed first," underlined Farooqi.
Read more:Why Pakistan shouldn't rely on China in wake of US aid cut
Islamabad heavily depends on global institutions like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) — both under US influence — to keep its economy running. The US administration could increase financial pressure on Pakistan to force Islamabad to comply with its demands.
"The US can [also] take away Pakistan's non-NATO ally status. Pakistan also needs financial aid and Washington has great influence over the international monetary institutions. It could ask them not to grant loans to Pakistan," Ashraf Jehangir Qazi, Pakistan's former ambassador to the US, told DW.
Although China is heavily investing in Pakistan's infrastructure as part of its multibillion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative, its military aid to Pakistan is in no way close to what Washington has been offering for decades.
Read more:China's 'betrayal' - BRICS leaders slam Pakistan-based jihadi groups
Pakistan's concerns
Despite the present mistrust between the two countries, US-Pakistani ties are unlikely to break down completely. History tells us that Pakistani authorities have maintained a minimum level of cooperation with Washington.
At the same time, only a one-sided assessment would put the blame of the US "failure" in Afghanistan on Pakistan. Former US President Barack Obama had acknowledged Islamabad's cooperation in a number of security areas, mainly in the defeat of al Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Experts say the Trump administration has to take Pakistan's reservations about the growing US-India ties into account if it is genuinely interested in resolving the militancy issue in the region. Pakistan has fought four wars against India and continues to see the rising economic and military power in its neighborhood as a threat. Islamabad is very skeptical about New Delhi's increased role in Afghanistan and experts say the military's security polices, as well as the alleged support for some jihadist groups, are completely India-centric.
Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.

Title: 'Violent extremism is becoming a norm' – DW – 06/18/2018
In an interview with DW, Sherry Rehman, leader of the opposition in Pakistan's upper house of parliament, shared her views on the upcoming election, freedom of press, global terrorism and deteriorating US-Pakistani ties.
DW: Will the general election in Pakistan be held on time?
Sherry Rehman: There is no reason to delay the July 25 polls. They should be held on time in accordance with constitutional requirements.
Pakistan is facing many challenges and cannot afford more political instability. The international community is observing the situation in Pakistan.
Read more:Pakistan: Will general elections be held on time?
Former PM Nawaz Sharif has taken on an aggressive stance against the military dominance. Some analysts say that your party, with its long history of challenging the powerful generals, should side with Sharif this time. What is your take on it?
The Pakistan People's Party (PPP) does not believe in hate-driven politics. We also don't agree with Sharif's politics. Unlike him, we have ideological clarity, especially on how to counter violent extremism in Pakistan.
In the past, Sharif had bypassed democratic norms as well as parliament. We supported his government in 2013 in order to stabilize democracy in Pakistan, but he mistook it for personal support.
The former premier does not represent democracy, especially when we know that his party and his lawmakers made a mockery of parliament. Sharif only talks about democracy when he needs to bail himself out.
The five years of Sharif's Pakistan Muslim League (PML-N) rule has left behind huge debts and acute water and power shortages. The PPP will align with only those that support democratic practices, not those who invoke democracy when they are in hot water.
Read more:
Opinion: Pakistan needs ex-PM Sharif's political role now more than ever
Pakistan appoints former chief justice as interim premier

The media in Pakistan have come under immense pressure, with rights activists saying the military establishment is attempting to stifle voices that oppose its dominance in politics. Does it not amount to pre-poll rigging?
With dramatic shifts in power structures — not just in Pakistan but also globally — those who dare to challenge them, find themselves in a tough spot. As a parliamentarian, it's my duty to ensure that constitutional rights are not violated in my country. The Senate's Committee on Human Rights is available to all media persons so that they can lodge their complaints to the body. We are against constraints on media and we stand for freedom of expression.
How do you view the political role of your party's chairman Bilawal Bhutto?
Bhutto is young but undaunted and very clear about empowering the downtrodden. He wants to empower the youth so that they can contribute to Pakistan's economy and society. His vision has attracted people in all four provinces of the country. We are seeing a surge in the political participation of young and educated people in Pakistan.
Read more:
Benazir Bhutto: Former Pakistani PM 'was highly undemocratic'
Pakistan has moved beyond Benazir Bhutto
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
Ties between the US and Pakistan have been deteriorating for quite some time. As a former Pakistan ambassador to the US, what do you think needs be done to remedy the situation?
I think that responsible nations like Pakistan and the US should always try to approach conflicts rationally. The future of global stability lies in bilateral solutions to our problems.
Read more:US watches Pakistan's democratic transition with caution
Recently, Pakistan and India agreed to revive the 2003 Kashmir border ceasefire agreement. Is it a sign that Indian-Pakistani ties could be improved?
If Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government wants to move past hostilities, I believe Pakistan will not walk away from any multilateral dialogue. A thaw in relations is necessary for the two nuclear-armed nations to address challenges in the South Asian region.
The incumbent Indian government needs to understand that blaming Pakistan for global problems like terrorism will not benefit anyone. It also needs to reevaluate its Kashmir policy.
Read more:What is Pakistan's militancy issue all about?
Pakistan, which shares a long, porous border with Afghanistan, is fighting terrorism on its own. Terrorism, in my opinion, is almost always linked to violent extremism. The latter is increasingly becoming a new global norm, evident by the rise of hyper-nationalisms in many parts of the world. In India, for example, Muslims are being targeted by extremists, while secular India struggles to fight back.
We admit that we need to do more to provide security to our citizens. But terrorism is not just a regional problem, but a global challenge.
Read more:
UN calls for Kashmir inquiry into alleged human rights abuses
Will former wife's 'tell-all' book hurt Imran Khan in upcoming Pakistan election?
Sherry Rehman is Pakistan's leader of the opposition in the Senate (upper house of parliament). She had been Pakistan's ambassador to the United States from 2011 to 2013.
The interview was conducted by Beenish Javed.

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found
