Title: Pakistan cancels US-Taliban meet; experts say opposition from India, Afghanistan after Pulwama attack at heart of decision – Firstpost
Experts claim the increasing Indian and international pressure on Pakistan following the Pulwama attack which killed over 40 CRPF personnel may have led to the cancellation of a meeting between US and Taliban
Islamabad:Strong opposition by the Government of Afghanistan may have prompted Pakistan to cancel a meeting with the US and Taliban on 18 February, 2019. The meeting was scheduled between Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan, US Special Representative for Pakistan and Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad and Taliban representatives, in Islamabad.
While bothPakistaniandAfghan officialshave confirmed the cancellation of the meeting, no further details have been released by either government. The US administration has also not made any official announcement about the same.
Pakistani officials, requesting anonymity, revealed that Khan cancelled the meeting with Taliban representatives due to strong opposition from India and Afghanistan. Explaining further, they said that India never opposed Pakistan’s bid to facilitate talks. However, following the recent Pulwama attack that killed over 40 CRPF jawans, the increasing Indian and international pressure on Pakistan led to the cancellation of talks.
A few days before the scheduled meeting, the Government of Afghanistan had approached the United Nations opposing Pakistan’s role in backing and holding meeting with the Taliban.
“Sensing a reaction from the United Nations General Assembly, Pakistan may have cancelled the meeting,” an Islamabad-based Western diplomat, requesting anonymity, said.
The letter, written by Afghanistan’s Deputy Permanent Representative to United Nations Nazifullah Salarzai, states, the “recent official engagement of the Government of Pakistan with Taliban… constitutes a violation of national sovereignty of Afghanistan”.
“These engagements, which are taking place under the pretext of support for peace efforts in Afghanistan, are void of any degree of coordination and consultation with the Government of Afghanistan.
“Most recently, we have learnt the intention of Government of Pakistan to invite a Taliban delegation for a meeting with its high-level authorities, including Prime Minister Imran Khan. The initiative is a source of deep regret and concern to the people and Government of Afghanistan as it amounts to the official recognition and legitimization of an armed-groups that poses a serious threat to the security and stability of Afghanistan, and whose members are sanctioned by provisions of the UN Security Council’s 1988 Committee’s Sanctions Regime,” it adds
Members of the Taliban delegation include Sher Mohammad Stanekzai, Ziauddin Madani, Salam Hanafi, Shahabuddin Delawar, Abdul Latif Mansur, Amir Khan Motaqi, Fazl Mohammad Mazloom, and Nurullah Nuri. All these individuals are currently on a highly sensitive sanctions list by the United Nations Security Council, making them ‘persons of interest’ internationally. This list comprises individuals from around the world who have been on the radar for alleged criminal activities.
Pakistan’s perspective
With theUS deciding to pull troopsout of Afghanistan, Pakistan plans to increase influence in Kabul by maintaining close contact with the Taliban. Not only will this give Islamabad power in the region, but will also help counter Indian influence in Afghanistan.
A former Pakistani intelligence officer, requesting anonymity, claims India has set up base in Kabul through RAW and TTP (Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan), which the current Afghanistan government “refuses” to accept.
“Pakistan believes if Taliban comes into power, they can become a voice in Afghanistan’s power corridors,” he explains, adding that this is one of the reasons Pakistan is trying hard to make US-Taliban talks successful.
Taimur Shamil, an Islamabad-based expert on defence with a PhD in international relations, believes peace and political stability in Afghanistan will contribute towards boosting Pakistan’s economy. “Pakistan has used its links to promote intra-Afghan dialogue which addresses the political stability in Afghanistan,” he says.
Speaking about Pakistan’s position on India’s presence in Afghanistan, Shamil agrees with the intelligence officer. “Indian presence in Afghanistan is a concern for Pakistan and this issue has been raised by Pakistan with the US. Pakistan believes that India uses Afghan soil and terrorist organisations like TTP and Jamat-Ul-Ahrar to carry out attacks in Pakistan,” he says.
Their aim, he adds, is to ensure Afghan soil is not used by Indian authorities against Pakistan.
“If the Taliban comes to power, or even gets a share in the next government in Afghanistan, it will be a major blow to Indian interests in the country,” said a Pakistani official, requesting anonymity.
Afghanistan has long accused Pakistan of aiding and abetting terrorists and members of the Taliban, a charge denied by Pakistan several times. In February 2018, Afghanistan president Ashraf Ghani accused Pakistan of failing to move against the Taliban and pledged a new security plan for Kabul, after around 100 people were killed andwounded in a deadly attackon the capital in January.
Last year, US PresidentDonald Trump asked Khanfor help and cooperation in formulating peace talks with the Taliban. Following the US president’s requests,Pakistan brokered direct talksbetween the US and Taliban in December 2018, in Doha, Qatar. The second round of peace negotiations was to be held in February this year, which were cancelled.
In 2015, a meeting between Pakistan, Afghanistan and Taliban were postponed following the surprise announcement of the death of the Taliban’s founding commander, Mullah Mohammed Omar.
The author is a Rawalpindi-based freelance writer and a member of 101Reporters.com, a pan-India network of grassroots reporters
Find us on YouTube
is on YouTube
Copyright @ 2024. Firstpost - All Rights Reserved

Title: China to Form Group to Speed Up Taliban Peace Talks
China will establish a contact group through the Beijing-led Eurasian coalition known as the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) to help “speed up” U.S.-backed efforts to end the more than 17-year-old war in Afghanistan with a political reconciliation between Kabul and the Taliban, the Chinese foreign minister said this week.
During a meeting with his Kyrgyz counterpart Chingiz Aidarbekov in Beijing on Thursday, China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi declared, “We will make the SCO Afghanistan contact group to play a better role so we can speed up the political settlement of Afghanistan internal issues,” Afghanistan’s TOLO Newsreports.
Beijing has come out in support of intensified U.S. efforts towards a negotiated political settlement in Afghanistan,callingfor the Taliban to play a “legitimate role” in Afghan politics.
U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration has made the reconciliation between Kabul and the Afghan Taliban the primary goal of its strategy to end the war. Trump officials have expressed support for Kabul’s offer to the Taliban of official recognition as a legitimate political group, a move that would grant the terrorist group the opportunity to return to power.
Soon after invading Afghanistan in the wake of the 9/11 attacks, U.S. troops ousted the Taliban regime.
Now, the Taliban controls or contests about45 percentof Afghanistan’s districts, more than during any other time since it was removed from power.
The Pentagon hasacknowledgedthat the Chinese military is operating inside Afghanistan.
Beijing has expressed concerns about the presence of Chinese Uighur (or Uyghur) jihadis in Afghanistan, which shares a border with China.
While the U.S. urged cooperation with Beijing in Afghanistan in early 2018, the United States early this yearcautionedthat China is seeking to expand its influence in Afghanistan.
Troops from India and its regional rival China appear to bepreparingfor potential consequences from a possible U.S. military withdrawal from Afghanistan stemming from peace negotiations between the Taliban and the United States.
President Trump has indicated he is considering withdrawing some troops in exchange for a peace deal, but the Pentagoninsistsit has not received any official orders to pull out.
Last month, the United States and theTaliban“agreed, in principle, to a framework for a deal, under which the United States would withdraw troops from Afghanistan, and the Taliban would guarantee that Afghanistan does not harbor terrorists,” including its ally al-Qaeda and rival the Islamic State (ISIS/ISIL), the Pentagon inspector general acknowledged this week.
For years, thePentagonhas described America’s mission in Afghanistan as preventing the country “from becoming a safe-haven from which terrorist groups can plan and execute attacks against the U.S. homeland, U.S. citizens, and our interests and allies abroad.”
Despite U.S. military claims that the Taliban isdistancingitself from the international terrorist group, an estimated 200 al-Qaeda jihadis continue to operate through cells in Taliban-controlled areas along the Pakistan border, the watchdog found.
The primaryhurdleto a peace agreement remains the Taliban’s reluctance to allow the Afghan government to participate in the talks, arguing that it is an American “puppet.”
Last year, high-ranking U.S. military officialsadmittedthat the United States would not achieve a military victory in Afghanistan.
Several peace-seeking efforts in Afghanistan have failed in recent years.
As part of the Quadrilateral Coordination Group (QCG) that also included the United States, Afghanistan, and Pakistan, China played a role infailedefforts in recent years to convince the Taliban to engage in face-to-face peace talks with U.S.-backed Kabul.
Pleaselet us knowif you're having issues with commenting.




Copyright © 2024 Breitbart

Title: Afghanistan Protests Pakistan Invitation To Taliban
Print
Afghanistan has expressed concerns to the UN Security Council about a planned visit by Taliban negotiators to Pakistan, asserting that the militant group’s members traveling to Islamabad are under UN sanctions and that Kabul should have been consulted prior to any such meeting.Taliban negotiators on February 14 announced they will meet U.S. representatives in Pakistan on February 18 as part of ongoing Afghan peace talks and that they will also meet with Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan to hold "comprehensive discussions about Pakistan-Afghanistan relations."In a letter to the Security Council seen by RFE/RL’s Radio Mashaal, the Afghan UN mission wrote that the Taliban-Pakistan meeting “constitutes a violation of the national sovereignty of Afghanistan.”“These engagements, which are taking place under the pretext of support for peace efforts in Afghanistan, are void of any degree of coordination and consultation with the government of Afghanistan,” it said.The letter said that an invitation by Khan for a Taliban delegation to travel to Pakistan for talks “amounts to the official recognition and legitimization of an armed-group that poses a serious threat to the security and stability of Afghanistan, and whose members are sanctioned by provisions of the UN Security Council's 1988 Committee’s Sanctions Regime.”Pakistan has not responded to remarks made in the Afghan letter to the Security Council.The United States has not officially commented on the Taliban’s announcement of a potential meeting in Islamabad.Tensions run high between Afghanistan and Pakistan. Kabul and Washington have accused Islamabad of providing safe havens for terrorists in its territory, allowing them to cross the border into Afghanistan and attack government troops and Western forces. Pakistan denies the allegations.The discussions in Islamabad would come a week before previously scheduled February 25 talks in Qatar between U.S. officials and Taliban negotiators.Talks between U.S. officials -- including Zalmay Khalilzad, the special peace envoy for Afghanistan -- have intensified in recent months. Khalilzad and Taliban negotiators have both said progress has been made, but U.S. officials caution that much work needs to be done before an agreement can be finalized.The U.S.-Taliban talks are aimed at finding a negotiated end to Afghanistan's 17-year war.The United States has been attempting to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table with officials in Kabul.The Afghan government has been absent from the U.S.-Taliban talks, prompting anger and frustration in Kabul. The Taliban considers the Kabul government a Western puppet and has so far refused to directly negotiate with it.U.S. troops have been in Afghanistan since an October 2001 invasion that brought down the Taliban government after it refused to hand over Al-Qaeda terrorists, including Osama bin Laden, blamed for launching the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States.
RFE/RL's Radio Mashaal is a public-service broadcaster providing a powerful alternative to extremist propaganda in Pakistan's remote tribal regions along the border with Afghanistan.



Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty © 2024 RFE/RL, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Title: Afghanistan Protests Pakistan Invitation To Taliban
Afghanistan has expressed concerns to the UN Security Council about a planned visit by Taliban negotiators to Pakistan, asserting that the militant group’s members traveling to Islamabad are under UN sanctions and that Kabul should have been consulted prior to any such meeting.Taliban negotiators on February 14 announced they will meet U.S. representatives in Pakistan on February 18 as part of ongoing Afghan peace talks and that they will also meet with Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan to hold "comprehensive discussions about Pakistan-Afghanistan relations."In a letter to the Security Council seen by RFE/RL’s Radio Mashaal, the Afghan UN mission wrote that the Taliban-Pakistan meeting “constitutes a violation of the national sovereignty of Afghanistan.”“These engagements, which are taking place under the pretext of support for peace efforts in Afghanistan, are void of any degree of coordination and consultation with the government of Afghanistan,” it said.The letter said that an invitation by Khan for a Taliban delegation to travel to Pakistan for talks “amounts to the official recognition and legitimization of an armed-group that poses a serious threat to the security and stability of Afghanistan, and whose members are sanctioned by provisions of the UN Security Council's 1988 Committee’s Sanctions Regime.”Pakistan has not responded to remarks made in the Afghan letter to the Security Council.The United States has not officially commented on the Taliban’s announcement of a potential meeting in Islamabad.Tensions run high between Afghanistan and Pakistan. Kabul and Washington have accused Islamabad of providing safe havens for terrorists in its territory, allowing them to cross the border into Afghanistan and attack government troops and Western forces. Pakistan denies the allegations.The discussions in Islamabad would come a week before previously scheduled February 25 talks in Qatar between U.S. officials and Taliban negotiators.Talks between U.S. officials -- including Zalmay Khalilzad, the special peace envoy for Afghanistan -- have intensified in recent months. Khalilzad and Taliban negotiators have both said progress has been made, but U.S. officials caution that much work needs to be done before an agreement can be finalized.The U.S.-Taliban talks are aimed at finding a negotiated end to Afghanistan's 17-year war.The United States has been attempting to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table with officials in Kabul.The Afghan government has been absent from the U.S.-Taliban talks, prompting anger and frustration in Kabul. The Taliban considers the Kabul government a Western puppet and has so far refused to directly negotiate with it.U.S. troops have been in Afghanistan since an October 2001 invasion that brought down the Taliban government after it refused to hand over Al-Qaeda terrorists, including Osama bin Laden, blamed for launching the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States.
No media source currently available
Germany deported several dozen Afghans in August -- all of them convicted criminals -- for the first time since the Taliban takeover in 2021. But the move has fueled panic among Germany's large Afghan community, many of whom fear they could be next as Berlin tightens the country's asylum policies and anti-immigration parties rise in popularity.
Central Asian countries are taking steps to broaden relations with their southern neighbor, the Taliban-led Afghanistan, despite the hard-line group’s increasingly restrictive policies, particularly toward women.
Kyrgyzstan removed the Taliban from its list of terrorist organizations earlier this month, Turkmenistan resumed work with Afghanistan on a major gas-pipeline project, and Uzbekistan signed $2.5 billion worth of cooperation agreements with Kabul during the Uzbek prime minister’s high-profile visit to Afghanistan in August.
Kyrgyz Foreign Minister Jeenbek Kulubaev said on September 6 that the measure aims to "secure regional stability and further develop ongoing dialogue."
On September 11, Turkmen and Taliban officials held a ceremony to mark the resumption of the much-delayed Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India (TAPI) gas-pipeline project, which is designed to transport up to 33 billion cubic meters of natural gas from Turkmenistan to South Asia each year.
The ceremony in the Turkmen border town of Serhetabat was attended by former President Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov, the head of the powerful People’s Council of Turkmenistan, while the Taliban delegation was led by its prime minister, Mohammad Hassan Akhund, who is on a UN sanctions list.
Turkmen President Serdar Berdymukhammedov joined the ceremony via a video link.
The estimated $10 billion TAPI project was first designed in the 1990s but was repeatedly delayed due to war and instability in Afghanistan.
Turkmenistan hopes the proposed 1,800-kilometer pipeline will become a key source of revenue for cash-strapped Ashgabat.
And Afghanistan would earn about $500 million in transit fees annually, a major boost to its budget.
The future of TAPI, however, remains in doubt due to Western sanctions on the Taliban administration and the absence of official recognition of the government in Kabul that could hamper funding and investment in the project.
No country in the world has formally recognized the Taliban government.High-Profile Visit
In August, Uzbek Prime Minister Abdulla Oripov went to Kabul, marking the highest-level visit by a foreign government official since the Taliban took power in Kabul three years ago.
During the visit, Uzbek and Taliban officials reportedly signed investment and trade deals worth about $2.5 billion in the energy, agriculture, and manufacturing sectors.
Afghanistan and Kazakhstanannouncedin August 2023 that they were planning to increase bilateral trade to $3 billion.
Kazakhstan, Central Asia’s largest economy, was the first country to delist the Taliban as a terror organization in December 2023.
But while Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan were quick to make visits to Kabul after the Taliban returned to power, Tajikistan was the only Central Asian country to take a harsh stance on the new rulers in Afghanistan.'Accepting Reality'
Dushanbe’s position has been largely linked to its ethnic, linguistic, and historic connection to the mainly ethnic Tajik opponents to the Taliban, which is predominantly ethnic Pashto.
But Tajikistan now appears to be softening it policies toward the Taliban in a move that Tajik experts describe as “accepting reality.”
Tajikistan exports electricity to Kabul and has established severalmarketsin border towns where local merchants from the two sides sell goods. The governments also reportedly discussed cooperation in the fight against militants who target Tajikistan from inside Afghan territory.
Both Dushanbe and Kabul have a shared interest in defeating the Islamic State-Khurasan terrorist group, which has recruited many militants from Tajikistan.
Afghan media reported that the head of Tajikistan’s state Committee for National Security, Saimuddin Yatimov, had a meeting with Taliban intelligence chief Abdul Haq Wasiq in late August. Tajik authorities have neither confirmed nor denied those reports.
Speaking on condition of anonymity, a Dushanbe-based expert told RFE/RL’s Tajik Service that “given Tajikistan’s vast shared border with Afghanistan, the threats of terrorist attacks, and economic incentives, Tajik authorities have no choice but to opt for geopolitical cooperation” with the Taliban.
Some experts claim that China and Kazakhstan have played a role in convincing Dushanbe to change its attitude toward the Taliban administration.Addressing high-ranked officials from members of the Collective Security Treaty Organization in Almaty in June, Kazakh President Qasym-Zhomart Toqaev called the Taliban “a long-term factor” and highlighted what he described as “the importance of developing trade and economic cooperation with modern Afghanistan.”
Welcome to The Azadi Briefing, an RFE/RL newsletter that unpacks the key issues in Afghanistan. To subscribe,click here.
I'm Abubakar Siddique, a senior correspondent at RFE/RL's Radio Azadi. Here's what I've been tracking and what I'm keeping an eye on in the days ahead.
A new report by the United Nations has documented a significant uptick in violence in Taliban-ruled Afghanistan.In its quarterlyreport, the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) noted a 53 percent rise in violence between May 14 and July 31 compared to the same period last year.UNAMA recorded 2,127 security-related incidents. Many of the attacks were carried out by anti-Taliban resistance groups, including the National Resistance Front and the Afghanistan Freedom Front, as well as the Islamic State-Khorasan (IS-K) extremist group.There was also an increase in armed clashes, detonations of improvised explosive devices, and land disputes.
Why It's Important:Rising violence in Afghanistan contradicts the Taliban's claims that it has restored order in the country three years after it seized power.But the increasing violence is unlikely to lead to the immediate downfall of the Taliban government or trigger a civil war.The two main anti-Taliban resistance groups carried out a total of 73 attacks during the reporting period. Most were "hit-and-run" attacks and targeted assassinations of Taliban members.UNAMA said that "the armed opposition continued to pose no significant challenge to the Taliban's hold on territorial control."IS-K has continued its attacks against the Taliban, religious minorities, and foreigners, despite a brutal Taliban crackdown."The simmering levels of violence are concerning," said Graeme Smith, a senior Afghanistan analyst at the Brussels-based International Crisis Group. "Still, the latest figures make it clear that the country remains a postwar environment."A database of violent attacks and fatalities by ACLED, a data-collection, analysis, and crisis-mapping project, shows that violence peaked during the summer of 2022 after the Taliban’s return to power a year earlier. Attacks reached their lowest levels in January of this year but have peaked since then."Some of these trends are seasonal," Smith said of the historical pattern of violence in Afghanistan, which rises in the warmer months and declines in winter.
What's Next:Anti-Taliban resistance groups are likely to continue their low-level conflict against the Taliban.A mostly Pashtun group dominated by clerics, the Taliban has monopolized power and sidelined many of the country’s ethnic and religious groups as well as political factions.IS-K is likely to remain the biggest threat to the Taliban, which has eroded but not eliminated its rival's capabilities.
A diplomatic spat has erupted after a Taliban diplomat refused tostand upwhen the Pakistani national anthem was played during an event in the country's northwest.Islamabad complained to Kabul and summoned Afghanistan's most senior diplomat in Pakistan in protest over the incident on September 17.Pakistan's Foreign Ministry accused the Taliban diplomat of "disrespect" and said the incident was "reprehensible."The Taliban has not officially commented on the incident. But pro-Taliban figures on social media rejected Islamabad's criticism. They said the diplomat did not stand up during the anthem because the Taliban has banned music and considers it forbidden.
Why It's Important:This diplomatic spat marks a new low in bilateral relations marked by regular accusations and threats, border clashes and closures, and Pakistan's expulsion of Afghan refugees.Islamabad has pressured the Taliban to rein in or expel members of the Tehrik-e Taliban Pakistan extremist group. Islamabad has accused the Taliban of sheltering the militants, which have increased their attacks in Pakistan.
That's all from me for now.
Don't forget to send me any questions, comments, or tips that you have. You can always reach us atazadi.english@rferl.org
Until next time,
Abubakar Siddique
If you enjoyed this briefing and don't want to miss the next edition,subscribe here. It will be sent to your inbox every Friday.
Afghanistan's decadeslong fight to eradicate the crippling polio virus has suffered a new blow after the Taliban suspended a national vaccination campaign.
The hard-line Islamist group informed UN agencies of its decision just before the start of the immunization drive in September, the world body said on September 16. The Taliban has denied halting the vaccinations.Afghans have expressed fear that any suspension would represent a major setback to eradicating polio, a childhood virus that leads to deformed limbs, paralysis, and even death.Afghanistan and neighboring Pakistan are the only countries in the world where polio remains endemic.
"This is very worrying for our children," Mari Amiri, a mother of four who lives in the northern Takhar Province, told RFE/RL's Radio Azadi. "They are the future of our country."
Noorullah, a resident of the capital, Kabul, criticized the Taliban's decision to "limit access to such a vital means for preventing a dangerous disease.""Instead of addressing our problems, they are creating new ones," Zuhal, a woman who lives in Kabul, told Radio Azadi.Rising Number Of CasesThe Taliban's suspension of vaccinations comes as the number of polio cases rise in Afghanistan.
The World Health Organization (WHO) says it has detected 18 new poliovirus cases so far this year, a significant increase compared to 2023, when six cases were recorded.The Taliban's Health Ministry on September 17 denied that the group had suspended or delayed the polio vaccination drive.
In astatement, ministry spokesman Sharafat Zaman said the Taliban was trying to implement the vaccination campaign "through the best possible means available."But a polio worker in the eastern province of Nangarhar, who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of retribution, said the polio-immunization campaign in the region was suspended because local Taliban officials were "demanding tax from aid organizations." The worker's claim could not be verified by RFE/RL.The Taliban has previously been accused of attempting todivertor manipulate aid distribution as well as imposing taxes on humanitarian groups and their activities.During a nationwide campaign in June, a house-to-house vaccination strategy was used for the first time in five years in a bid to reach more children.But in the southern province of Kandahar, a stronghold of the Taliban, less-effective site-to-site or mosque-to-mosque vaccination campaigns were used, WHO said.
Hamid Jafari, director of polio eradication at WHO, told theAssociated Pressthat the organization was holding discussions with the Taliban over "shifting from house-to-house polio vaccination campaigns to site-to-site vaccination in parts of Afghanistan."'Impede Or Influence'In recent decades, Afghanistan's battle to eradicate polio has been thwarted by militant attacks and anti-vaccination propaganda.Some radical Islamic clerics and militants have claimed that the polio vaccine is a Western conspiracy to harm or sterilize children.Anti-vaccination propaganda has been fueled by a distrust of Western governments who fund vaccine programs, including after the CIA reportedly staged a fake hepatitis-vaccination campaign in 2011 to confirm the location of Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden -- living in the Pakistani garrison town of Abbottabad -- where he was killed by U.S. SEALs.Insurgents in Afghanistan and Pakistan have even kidnapped, beaten, and assassinated dozens of vaccinators or their armed police escorts in recent years in a bid to stop local anti-polio campaigns.
Mullah Mohammad Omar, the Taliban's late founder, in 2007 issued a decree in support of polio vaccinations.But Ashley Jackson, the co-founder of the Center on Armed Groups, says the vaccinations have long been a source of contention within the Taliban."The Taliban cannot go against a decree from its founder," she said. "But they can try to impede or influence how vaccinations are carried out."Jackson added that there is a "feeling, especially with house-to-house vaccinations, that vaccinators ask invasive questions and might have ulterior motives."She said the Taliban's recent suspension is a setback, but "both sides will find some compromise that allows them to resume," as has happened in the past.The polio vaccination campaign is seen as a boon for the cash-strapped Taliban government.Vaccine campaigns employ thousands of health workers in Afghanistan, which is grappling with mass unemployment and rising poverty."Many within the [Taliban] government see this external funding as an essential form of support for the struggling health sector," Jackson said.
Afghanistan's Taliban-run Health Ministry on September 17 rejected reports saying the hard-line group has suspended or delayed a major polio vaccination drive.
Ministry spokesman Sharafat Zamancalled such reports falseand said there was no official directive to postpone or stop the anti-polio plans.Instead, he said, Taliban health officials are trying to implement the vaccination campaign in a legitimate and technical way that benefits society.A day earlier, APquoteda top official from the World Health Organization (WHO) as saying it was aware of discussions to move away from house-to-house vaccinations and instead administer immunizations site-to-site in places like mosques.
Local and international observers have repeatedly warned of humanitarian challenges since the Taliban took control of the country as the U.S.-led international coalition withdrew in mid-2021, heightened by a lack of recognition of the group's government in Kabul.The WHO has confirmed 18 polio cases in Afghanistan this year, up from six cases in 2023, and had announced a sweeping anti-polio drive for September.A nationwide house-to-house anti-polio campaign in June was the first in at least five years, and WHO authorities said the scheme allowed its vaccinators to reach most of the children it was targeting.Kamal Shah, a former communications officer at UNICEF, the UN agency responsible for humanitarian and other aid to children worldwide, has urged officials to better integrate the Taliban into polio vaccination efforts.
Afghanistan and neighboring Pakistan are the only countries in the world where polio is still endemic.The WHO has warned that high cross-border traffic between those two countries heightens the risk of polio spreading.
The Taliban has suspended polio vaccination campaigns in Afghanistan, the UN said on September 16. Afghanistan is one of two countries in which the spread of the potentially fatal, paralyzing disease has never been stopped. The other is Pakistan. News of the suspension was relayed to UN agencies right before the September immunization campaign was due to start. No reason was given for the suspension, and no one from the Taliban-controlled government was immediately available for comment. A top official from the World Health Organization (WHO) said it was aware of discussions to move away from house-to-house vaccinations and instead have immunizations in places like mosques. The WHO has confirmed 18 polio cases in Afghanistan this year, up from six cases in 2023.
Veteran Afghan warlord and former politician Abdul Rashid Dostum hasurged groupsthat oppose the fundamentalist Taliban to unite to form a government-in-exile for Afghanistan to challenge that extremist group's unrecognized leadership.
Dostum, an ethnic Uzbek and longtime kingmaker who along with his private army has been accused of past rights abuses, was speaking to a virtual gathering of a Turkish-based Afghan resistance group on September 15.
Dostum said last year that his fighters were prepared to take on the Taliban once the international community concluded that it cannot deal with the hard-line extremist group.
The chameleonic Dostum formerly served under the UN-backed former Afghan government as a deputy defense minister.
He also held other party and military posts in Afghanistan before the U.S.-led international forces withdrew in mid-2021.
Dostum, whose historical power bases were in northern and western Afghanistan, ran unsuccessfully for the Afghan presidency in 2004.
He was also widely thought to be a major figure in factional fighting that plagued the country for decades and sometimes pitted ostensibly allied armed forces against each another.
In 2019, when he was first vice president, Dostum was said to have narrowly escaped when his convoy was attacked by Taliban forces in a northern province.
A day later, the Taliban, which was waging a fierce insurgency against the central government in Kabul,saidDostum remained on its hit list.
The Taliban raided homes and summarily executed many perceived enemies as the group swept into de facto power after capturing most of the country in 2020-21.
The subsequent Taliban-led government has waged a campaign of discrimination and abuse against women and been accused of persecuting minority groups in Afghanistan, among other alleged wrongdoing.
Welcome to The Azadi Briefing, an RFE/RL newsletter that unpacks the key issues in Afghanistan. To subscribe,click here.
I'm Abubakar Siddique, a senior correspondent at RFE/RL's Radio Azadi. Here's what I've been tracking and what I'm keeping an eye on in the days ahead.
Afghanistan has briefly returned to the headlines as the United States heads toward a crucial November presidential election.
Republicans and Democrats blamed each other for failing to conclude an orderly withdrawal to end the conflict in Afghanistan, the longest war in American history.
In the September 10 presidentialdebate, Vice President and Democratic presidential candidate Kamala Harris defended President Joe Biden's decision to withdraw from Afghanistan. She blamed her opponent, former President and Republican candidate Donald Trump, for concluding the 2020 Doha agreement with the Taliban, which "bypassed the Afghan government."
In response, Trump defended the Doha deal as "a very good agreement." He blamed the Biden administration for losing soldiers during the withdrawal, leaving behind weapons, and not enforcing the terms of the agreement.
On September 8, a new investigative report by House Republicans blamed Biden's administration for the chaotic final withdrawal from Afghanistan.
Representative Michael McCaul (Republican-Texas), who led the probe as chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said the Biden administration "had the information and opportunity" to plan for the inevitable collapse of the Afghan government. Still, it chose, "optics over security," he said.
However, the State Departmentaccusedthe committee of issuing partisan statements, cherry-picking facts, and obfuscating "the truth behind conjecture."
Why It's Important:America's war in Afghanistan -- particularly its disastrous end -- is unlikely to vanish from public memory and from political debates on how the U.S.-led war on terrorism was conducted and how it ended.
Another ongoing probe will likely shed even more light on the war, which lasted for over two decades, between 2001 and 2021.
The Afghanistan War Commission, a bipartisan legislative body comprised of former U.S. government officials with experience of the war, is probing the conflict. Its report is slated to be released in 2026.
Like the 9/11 Commission report, on which it is modeled, it is likely to attract a great deal of public interest and scrutiny.
What's Next:Renewed attention on Afghanistan will likely increase amid the partisan rancor ahead of the November 5 presidential election.
However, it is unlikely to prompt a significant change in Washington's policy toward the country in the short term.
Afghanistan's Taliban rulers and Turkmen leader Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov inaugurated the construction of the Afghan section of the Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India (TAPI) pipeline.
On September 11, the Taliban held a groundbreaking ceremony for the long-delayed pipeline.
Zabihullah Mujahid, the Taliban's top spokesman,saidAshgabat will invest in building the pipeline, money that will be returned, the group says, when his government begins collecting transit fees estimated to be more than $500 million per annum.
Mujahid said that the pipeline inside Afghanistan will be built in three phases. The first phase, according to the spokesman, will connect the Turkmen border to the western Afghan city of Herat and will be built within two years from now. It will then begin supplying gas to the energy-starved country. The second phase will extend the pipeline to the southern province of Helmand. In the third phase, TAPI will go through the southern province of Kandahar and on to Pakistan.
The 1,800-kilometer pipeline will carry 33 billion cubic meters of natural gas annually through southern Afghanistan to Pakistan's southwestern Balochistan Province. From there, it will go through Pakistan's eastern Punjab Province to Fazilka in India's northwestern Punjab state.
Why It's Important:TAPI has long been touted as a significant regional energy project.
But insecurity in Afghanistan and the lack of international investment has prevented it from taking shape.
Given the Taliban's lack of transparency about significant infrastructure projects, it is still possible that TAPI will remain just a pipe dream.
That's all from me for now.
Don't forget to send me any questions, comments, or tips that you have. You can always reach us atazadi.english@rferl.org
Until next time,
Abubakar Siddique
If you enjoyed this briefing and don't want to miss the next edition,subscribe here. It will be sent to your inbox every Friday.
A regional branch of the Islamic State (IS) extremist group has claimed responsibility for a deadly attackin central Afghanistan targeting Shi'ite pilgrims.
The Islamic State-Khorasan (IS-K) group on September 12 published images showing the massacred pilgrims, believed to belong to the Hazara minority persecuted by the Sunni IS-K.
Hadi Rahimi Zada, a former council member in Daykundi Province, where the killings took place,toldRFE/RL's Radio Azadi that 14 people were killed by unidentified gunmen in the attack.
Some other local sources told Radio Azadi that the killings were carried out by armed men on motorcycles.
A resident of Daykundi Province who spoke on condition of anonymity out of security concerns said that the group targeted had gathered to welcome pilgrims returning from Karbala in Iraq, a Shi'ite holy site.
"Their relatives had returned to Firouzkoh from Karbala. These people were going to welcome them. Four people attacked them and 14 people were killed," the source said. "They were all young men, and five others were injured."
Abdul Matin Qani, a spokesman for the Taliban's Interior Ministry confirmed the attack in Daykundi Province, saying on September 12 that further details would be announced.
The IS-K has carried out numerous attacks since the Taliban seized power in August 2021, often targeting Taliban officials, foreign nationals, and the Shi'ite Hazara community.
TheIS-K wasfounded in Afghanistanin 2014 as a regional branch of the Islamic State extremist group that aims to expand throughout South and Central Asia. Khorasan refers to a historical region that comprised parts of modern-day Afghanistan, Iran, and Central Asia.
After the Taliban's de facto government cut ties with a number of diplomatic missions operated abroad by diplomats loyal to the ousted Afghan republic, the British and Norwegian authorities have opted to shut down Afghan embassies on their soil.
Both Oslo and London say their decisions in no way represent official recognition of the Taliban's rule in Afghanistan, which no country recognizes due to concerns over a woeful human rights record and other failures to live up to promises it made before seizing power in August 2021.
But experts say the embassy closures are likely to pave the way for more engagement with the Taliban, which controls all of Afghanistan's territory and has increased its hold on power.
Diplomats who served the former Afghan government were left in limbo when the Taliban took control, but remained open for business in some Western states and continued to assist Afghan citizens.
The window on their operations began to close when the Talibanannouncedin July that it was cutting ties with 14 such missions in Western countries and that it would not accept any consular documents they processed, a critical source of funding to keep them running.
Many of the consular services, such as verification of identity documents or police clearance, offered by the embassies do require a degree of cooperation from the country's government because diplomatic missions might not be able to access all government data.
This month, the British Foreign Office announced that it was shutting down the Afghan Embassy in London, explaining to RFE/RL on September 9 that the decision was made after the "dismissal of its staff by the Taliban."
Norway quickly followed suit, announcing that the Afghan Embassy in Oslo would be shut down on September 12.
Both the British and Norwegian governments have indicated that the move does not amount to a formal recognition of the Taliban's hard-line government. And the embassy buildings, which are Afghanistan's properties, will be eventually handed over to a "recognized" government of Afghanistan.
But Hameed Hakimi, an Afghanistan expert, says the decisions to shut the embassies can be taken as "reality setting in" that the Taliban is "unlikely to be replaced in the immediate future."
And for the Taliban, he says, it creates an opportunity to argue that its rule is being acknowledged, even without formal recognition.
"The Taliban can use this to their advantage in their pursuit of claiming legitimacy with the Afghans and internationally," said Hakimi, an associate fellow at London's Chatham House think tank.
More than a dozen countries, mostly Afghanistan'sneighbors, already operate embassies in Kabul, and some have accredited Taliban diplomats. The Taliban government also partially controls diplomatic missions in some countries, and has established working relations with Afghan diplomatic missions in the Czech Republic, Spain, the Netherlands, Bulgaria, and the Afghan Consulate in Munich.
The missions operating in Western countries staffed by diplomats appointed by the previous government are the outlier.
Hakimi said that if all those missions are shut down, it "truly signifies the closure of the chapter of the Afghan Islamic Republic."
The Afghan Islamic Republic, as it was formally known, emerged soon after a U.S.-led military alliance toppled the Taliban government in November 2001 following the 9/11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington.
Nearly two decades later, the internationally recognized Afghan republic collapsed as the Taliban seized power in the wake of the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan.
The Taliban, meanwhile, recreated its brutal emirate from the 1990s by imposing harsh bans and discriminatory laws that resulted in widespread human rights violations. Afghan women and girls are deprived of education and employment in most sectors and lack fundamental freedoms.
These Taliban policies have so far kept its government from being officially recognized. This absence of recognition has complicated engagement with the Taliban government on important issues, such as humanitarian aid, and made it difficult for the estimated 2 million Afghans living in Western countries to access consular services.
Graeme Smith, a senior Afghanistan analyst at the Brussels-based International Crisis Group, says Western governments might be acting on the UN special coordinator's recommendation to facilitate the processing of documentation for Afghans abroad.
In his report endorsed by the UN Security Council in December 2023, Feridun Sinirlioglu, the UN special coordinator for Afghanistan, called for better cooperation between the Taliban regime and the outside world to ensure that Afghans can obtain the paperwork they need to continue with their daily lives.
"Afghans have been suffering in limbo without clarity about where to go when they need identity papers or travel documents," Smith said, describing how Afghans who still do not have travel documents from another country suffer from the lack of consular services.
"The steps we are witnessing now may represent practical efforts by some governments" to remedy the situation, Smith said.
The challenge remains, he said, to ensure that efforts "aimed at pressuring the regime do not sabotage the lives and livelihoods of Afghans."
Many Western capitals are also grappling with the complex issue of what to do with Afghan asylum seekers whose applications were rejected.
Last month, Germanydeported28 Afghan men convicted of crimes in the country to Kabul, with Qatar playing an intermediary role in securing the Taliban's cooperation in accepting the returning Afghans.
Smith said that some countries "are discovering the usefulness" of having a consular presence "connected to the authorities in Kabul" if they need to arrange the return of Afghan migrants.
"But it's unclear if that motivated the recent closures," he said.
Both Britain and Norway have not said anything about whether they will allow the Taliban government to offer consular services in London and Oslo.
The fates of the Afghan Embassy in Berlin and consulate in Bonn are not clear, although the consulate in Munich is likely to remain open because it cooperates with the Taliban government on consular services.
In London, Afghanistan expert Hakimi said the closure could create an "opportunity for the Taliban to lobby with the Western countries" and allow its representatives to at least run counselor services.
These Afghan diplomatic missions can remain closed indefinitely, similar to what happened in the United States, where the Afghan Embassy and two consulates have been closed since March 2002. The Afghan Embassy in Canada offers remote consular services to Afghans living in the United States.
In Norway, Afghans have mixed feelings about their embassy's closure.
Sima Nouri, an Afghan woman living in Oslo, is worried over how her compatriots will now access consular services.
"There is a possibility that the process of forced deportation of Afghan refugees will begin," she told RFE/RL's Radio Azadi. "This process, however, must be stopped."
Mina Rafiq, another Afghan woman in Norway, prefers shutting the embassy down to cooperating with the Taliban.
"This might work to the advantage of Afghan asylum seekers," she said, "because the Norwegian government will now have to give them necessary documents."
Taliban authorities confirmed on September 12 that civilians had been shot dead that day in an attack in central Afghanistan but provided no further details. "Unknown gunmen have opened fire and have killed the civilians," Abdul Matin Qani, a spokesman for the Taliban's Interior Ministry told the AFP news agency, adding that further details on the attack in Daykundi Province would be announced later. Local sources told RFE/RL that unidentified armed men on motorbikes shot dead at least 12 Hazara civilians at the border of Afghanistan’s Ghor and Daykundi provinces. The sources spoke with RFE/RL on condition of anonymity for security reasons. A source in the province who spoke with AFP said 14 people were killed and at least four wounded. The source said a group had gathered to welcome pilgrims returning from Karbala in Iraq, a Shi’ite holy site. The Islamic State extremist group claimed responsibility for the attack.
A small group of Afghan women took to the streets of Kabul on September 11 in a rare protest to demand their rights and call on the international community to denounce Taliban rule. More than 10 women participated in the demonstration, advocating for the restoration of basic freedoms that have been severely curtailed under the Taliban-led government since the group seized power three years ago. The protest was organized by the Afghan Women's History Transformation Movement. Ruqiya Sa'i, head of the movement, said the women ended the protest after 30 minutes because of the possibility of a violent attack by the Taliban. The severe restrictions on women ban education beyond the sixth grade and bar them from working in many offices.To read the full story by RFE/RL’s Radio Azadi, clickhere.
In the immediate aftermath of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks against the United States, Secretary of State Colin Powell gave assurances that America would deal with the tragedy by bringing those responsible to justice while protecting the world's democracies.
"They will never be allowed to kill the spirit of democracy," Powell said. "They cannot destroy our society. Theycannot destroy our beliefin the democratic way."
President George W. Bush, who won office in 2000 as a candidate who would be cautious about committing U.S. troops to foreign wars, quickly made fighting global terrorism a top policy, and set about establishing an international "coalition of the willing" to carry out the mission.
The U.S.-led invasion of Afghanistan had the primary goal of punishing the Al-Qaeda terrorist network, which had been given refuge in Afghanistan and carried out the deadly 9/11 attacks. And once on Afghan soil, Washington quickly ousted the Taliban regime accused of sheltering Al-Qaeda from power.
Costly Campaign
But the U.S. experience in Afghanistan ultimately ended in failure, and with the hard-line Taliban group back in power. The nearly 20-year war ended with immense costs in terms of lives lost and money spent. And it made the U.S. public and politicians on both sides of the aisle in Washington reluctant to get involved in "forever wars" that could not be won.
"More than $2 trillion spent in Afghanistan," U.S. President Joe Biden said on August 31, 2021, inannouncingthe official endof the United States' longest-ever war. "20,744 American servicemen and women injured, and the loss of 2,461 American personnel."
In explaining to the U.S. public that he was "not going to extend this forever war," Biden did not mention the estimated 70,000deaths among Afghan security forces, more than 46,000 Afghan civilian deaths, and the deaths of more than 4,000 allied troops and U.S. contractors.
The withdrawal under Biden has become a lightning rod for debate ahead of the U.S. presidential election on November 5. Republican nominee and former President Donald Trump has blasted Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris, who is running against Trump, for the "humiliation in Afghanistan," with much of the criticism centered on the chaotic last days of the withdrawal, when 13 U.S. soldiers and 170 Afghan civilians died in a bombing by the Islamic State-Khorasan extremist group.
Harris's campaign, meanwhile, has highlighted Trump's role as president in signing the 2020 deal with the Taliban that paved the way for the withdrawal and provided a"virtually impossible"deadline.
But experts who spoke to RFE/RL stressed that multiple U.S. administrations, beginning with Democratic President Barack Obama's from 2009 to 2017 -- had come to the realization that what had begun as a fight against terrorism had become an overly costly and potentially "forever" endeavor.
"It was an extremely expensive war in a place that was probably least important to the United States," said Vali Nasr, a professor of international affairs and Middle East studies at Johns Hopkins University. "It was a war that the United States started to destroy Al-Qaeda, which it did very quickly, then to dislodge the Taliban from Afghanistan, which it did, and then it became something much bigger, like how to establish a democracy and a functioning government in Afghanistan and sustain it."
The question asked by Obama, who initiated an exit strategy by reducing the number of U.S. troops in Afghanistan, and later Trump, was whether there was a compelling reason to stay.
The United States "was becoming committed to a forever war, or a forever presence at the tune of billions of dollars a year and tens of thousands of troops, in a condition that the threat from Afghanistan had declined and the strategic value of the country was declining," Nasr said.
And the economy and civil society established under the protection of the U.S. military, he says, was not something Afghanistan could sustain on its own.
"What the United States created is like a tree that never grew roots," Nasr said. "So, at some point you're going to say, 'I'm going to stop watering it, and I'm going to take my hand off from trying to forcibly keep it upright.'"
No Good Outcome
Rajan Menon, an emeritus professor of international relations at the City College of New York and director of the Grand Strategy Program at Defense Priorities, said that "no matter how long [the United States] had stayed, I don't see what a good ending could have been."
The minimal good outcome, Menon says, would have been "a stable country with a government that may not have been democratic, but which could be counted upon not to serve as a platform for terror and which would have a positive relationship with the United States."
But in attempting to realize that goal, what you are essentially "trying to do is engage in nation-building," Menon said. Even a "very, very powerful military machine" like the United States has difficulties pulling that off, he said, and there "are no pretty exits."
To avoid the chaotic type of withdrawal that took place in Afghanistan, Menon said, "you have to build institutions, political and military and civic in nature." Without that, "once you leave and remove the military protection, the institutions will start crumbling, and that is exactly what happened."
U.S. wars and democracy-building efforts were not isolated to Afghanistan during its nearly 20-year campaign there. There were others -- most notably the costly war in Iraq from 2003 to 2011 -- that former Secretary of State Powell argued was necessitated by an alleged Iraqi program to build weapons of mass destruction that was later determined to be nonexistent.
Prior to his death in 2021 just six weeks after the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan, Powell said that his arguments before the UN Security Council "wasa great intelligence failure."
Baghdad and the United States, which sent troops back to Iraq in 2014 to help fight the Islamic State (IS) extremist group, are still trying to repair relations. According to the Soufan Center think tank on September 9, the two sides reportedly have reached an agreement to transition from the United States leading the effort against IS to a bilateral partnership.
'Forever' Ending?
So is the U.S. era of "forever wars" over?
Many of the unique circumstances that accompanied the Afghan invasion -- a direct attack on U.S. soil, counterterrorism becoming a focal point of U.S. policy, and the idea that nation-building is an effective solution -- are unlikely to repeat themselves, Nasr says.
And the mood in the United States amid a hotly contested election campaign could indicate that it will at least think twice.
With both Trump and Harris there is "a little bit of a backlash against the so-called forever wars...and I think the American public probably will be much less supportive" of involvement in them in the future," Menon said.
But Madiha Afzal, a fellow in the foreign policy program at Brookings, said in written comments that while "some of the lessons from the Afghanistan war" had started being discussed, particularly in the last couple of years of the conflict, "the disaster of the withdrawal...really focused the conversation in America on Afghanistan to be just about the withdrawal."
The larger discussion about the war, Afzal said, "has been entirely obscured," with much of the conversation becoming intensely partisan.
"I fear that the larger lessons of the 20-year war have been lost along the way," Afzal concluded.
The Tehrik-e Taliban Pakistan (TTP) extremist group has regained a foothold in northwestern Pakistan, imposing its brutal rule on hundreds of thousands of people.
Those who live under the TTP say the hard-line Islamist group has severely curbed freedoms and rights, including those of women. Assassinations, kidnappings, extortion, and harassment dominate daily life in some areas, they say.
The TTP was ousted from its bases by a major Pakistani military offensive in 2014. But in recent years it has reestablished its control in pockets of Pakistan’s northwestern province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, where it is currently active in 10 of the 34 districts.
The TTP often rules during the night. After dark, government forces frequently retreat to their posts and bases, and many civilians refuse to venture outside for fear of the militants, locals say.
The return of the TTP to the region has triggered an exodus that has seen thousands of professionals, businesspeople, and wealthy landowners flee the region.
“No one is safe, and no place is immune from their presence,” said Humayun Mehsud, who recently fled the district of South Waziristan. “They have returned in strength.”
Mehsud said he escaped his village after the TTP, also known as the Pakistani Taliban, kidnapped and killed his brother, a government worker.
Mehsud, who now lives in the Pakistani capital, Islamabad, said the TTP has established its own government in South Waziristan, which is home to around 900,000 people. The militants, he said, control the local economy and have established makeshift courts to settle disputes among locals.'Atmosphere Of Fear'
The TTP has imposed its extremist version of Islam in areas they control, locals say.
Listening to or playing music is banned. Barbers are barred from shaving or trimming men’s beards. Some girls’ schools have been shut or destroyed and restrictions have been placed on women leaving their homes in some areas.
"They want to limit our lives here the same way the Afghan Taliban did in their country,” said Saleem, a resident of the district of Lakki Marwat.
The TTP and Afghan Taliban have close ideological and organizational ties. Pakistan has accused the Afghan Taliban, which seized power in 2021, of sheltering the Pakistani militants.
Saleem, whose name has been changed to protect his identity, said the TTP has replaced the local authorities in Lakki Marwat, which is home to around 1 million people.
The police, he said, have abandoned their posts after coming under constant TTP attacks and locals are fleeing by their thousands.
Mohsin Tabeer Khan, a political activist and former university lecturer, is among those who have stayed in Lakki Marwat. Critical of the TTP, he has received threats from the militant group.
"The atmosphere of fear is pervasive," said Khan. "Everyone locks themselves up after sunset."
Khan said the TTP has targeted local government workers and security personnel in the district.
“If they catch you carrying a government ID card, you have to worry about your life,” he said.
Abubakar Kurmiwal said the TTP has recently made inroads in the district of Kurram.
He said the TTP on August 14 kidnapped his cousin, who was accused of being a government spy. Four days later, his body was found on the side of the road, he said.
“Women cannot leave their houses because of these militants,” he said. ‘The militants often force locals to feed them.”
Last month, the only school in his village was closed after all its teachers fled, he said.
'State Authority Collapses'Mohsin Dawar, a former lawmaker, has witnessed the TTP’s growing influence in his native district of North Waziristan.
First, it started with TTP fighters forcing locals to feed them, said Dawar. Soon after, the militants extorted businessmen and wealthy landowners. Now, they are destroying schools for girls in the district, he said.
“As the [Pakistani] Taliban gains strength, the state authority collapses,” said Dawar, who heads the secular National Democratic Movement (NDM) party.
“They first want to kill people whose deaths will generate news,” he said. "Everyone is at risk, but those who have some prominence in society are in their crosshairs,” added Dawar, who has survived several assassination attempts.
The TTP’s attacks have surged in Pakistan in recent years. The militant group has often targeted the army and police and largely refrained from hitting civilian targets.
Abdul Sayed, a Sweden-based researcher who tracks the TTP, said the group is “primarily targeting” the security forces in an attempt to drive them out of the region.
Pakistan earlier this year said the military would launch a new offensive to root out militants in the region. The planned military operation has beenfiercely opposedby locals in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, the scene of numerous offensives that killed thousands and uprooted millions of civilians in the past.
Protests have similarly been staged against the TTP and its return to the region.
Abdul Wahid, a local leader of the secular Awami National Party, said locals no longer fear the militants or the Pakistani military after enduring years of strife.
“There is a lot of political awareness here now,” said Wahid, who is from the district of Khyber. “We will protest and resist peacefully.”
The Afghan Embassy in London is being shut down after its diplomats were dismissed by the country's Taliban rulers, Britain's Foreign Office said on September 9.
A Foreign Office statement e-mailed to RFE/RL said the embassy "is being closed following the dismissal of its staff by the Taliban." Britain does not recognize the Taliban-led government.
But the Afghan ambassador said the decision was made "based on the requirements of the host country's authorities." Zalmai Rassoulsaidon X that the embassy would shut its doors on September 27 "at the official request of the host country."
Neither the U.K. government nor the ambassador said what would happen to the embassy's staff, but a source at the Afghan Embassy who spoke with RFE/RLsaidthe British government had given embassy staff 90 days to leave the country or apply for political asylum.
The source said the British Foreign Office also said that the embassy building would not be handed over to the Taliban and that the British government would not allow any Afghan political representation or consulate to operate until a recognized government was established in Afghanistan.
The Taliban-led government had asked the embassy staff to interact with the Foreign Office, but the embassy staff refused, and as a result, the embassy's services were declared invalid by the Taliban.
The news has worried Afghans living in Britain, who fear problems without the diplomatic services.
"After this, we Afghans will face many challenges because Afghans need to renew their passports, identity cards, and other documents," Sayed Shah Kharoti and Malik, two Afghans living in London, told RFE/RL.
Diplomats who served under Afghanistan's former Western-backed government were left in limbo when the Taliban seized Kabul and returned to power in August 2021. Many embassies in Europe and beyond have continued to operate.
In another indication that this could be changing, the Afghan Embassy in Oslo announced on September 9 that it will cease its activities as of September 12 and hand over the embassy building, which is the property of Afghanistan, to the Norwegian Foreign Ministry.
The Taliban administration announced in July that it no longer recognized diplomatic missions set up by the former Western-backed government and that documents issued by embassies in Britain and 13 other mostly European countries were invalid.
Many Taliban leaders are under sanctions, and no country officially recognizes them as Afghanistan's legitimate rulers, though some countries retain active diplomatic missions in Afghanistan, including Pakistan, Turkey, Qatar, and China.
Afghanistan has sent Taliban-approved diplomats to some of those countries, including Pakistan and China.
Britain and other Western countries are grappling with how to provide humanitarian aid Afghans without recognizing the Taliban-led government, which has dramatically curtailed education, employment, and personal freedom for women and girls.
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Volker Turk launched a four-week session of the UN's Human Rights Council with a call for global leadership to avert a "dystopian future," invoking urgent warnings about the treatment of women in Taliban-led Afghanistan and Ukrainians under near-constant Russian attack.
Midway through his four-year mandate as the UN's leading voice on human rights, Turk said the world was "at a fork in the road."
The world faces a choice between continuing into "a treacherous 'new normal'" that fosters "sleepwalk[ing] into a dystopian future" or "wak[ing] up and turn[ing] things around for the better, for humanity and the planet," he said.
Turk cited "endless, vicious military escalation and increasingly horrifying, technologically 'advanced' methods of warfare, control, and repression."
He also cited indifference to inequalities between and within countries, a disinformation "free-for-all," the twisting of national sovereignty "to shroud -- or excuse -- horrific violations," and the discrediting of multilateral institutions or trying to "rewrite the international rules."
Turk said human rights aren't in crisis, "but political leadership needed to make them a reality is."
"At their most extreme, for example in Afghanistan, despicable laws and policies are effectively erasing women from public life," Turk said in reference to the Taliban-led government that has led that country since a U.S.-led international coalition withdrew in mid-2021.
The Taliban seized power promising more moderate policies than when the hard-line fundamentalist group ruled the country some two decades earlier, but its leaders have since doubled down on the recreation of a totalitarian clerical regime, especially with regard to women, who have effectively been denied any public role in society.
Afghan women have been banned from working in many sectors and are barred from recreation and leisure activities such as visiting public parks and public baths, and also face severe restrictions on where and how they can appear in public.
Turk's concerns on Afghanistan were echoed in a warning ahead of the session by a Human Rights Watch (HRW) statement saying the UN Human Rights Council "should urgently create an independent body to pursue accountability for all those responsible for serious abuses -- past and present -- in Afghanistan."
HRW said the human rights and humanitarian reality there had "gravely spiraled downward" since August 2021.
Richard Bennett, the UN special rapporteur on human rights in Afghanistan,saidin his report ahead of the 57th session of the Human Rights Council that women and girls had been victim to ever-greater restrictions under the Taliban.
In his wide-rangingspeech, Turk also talked about horrific conditions for millions of Ukrainians and a region of Russia recently occupied by Ukraine as Russia's full-scale invasion grinds through its third year.
"In Ukraine, civilians are trapped in cycles of terror, through ongoing attacks by the Russian Federation striking civilian facilities like hospitals, schools, and supermarkets, and repeated waves of targeting of energy infrastructure leading to country-wide blackouts," Turk said. "I fear for Ukrainians this coming winter."
He also cited the "horrific" attacks in Israel by the U.S.- and EU-designated terrorist organization Hamas that killed more than 1,200 people and injured many more, and the subsequent deaths of more than 40,000 Palestinians at the hands of Israeli forces.
Fighting erupted again on September 9 between Taliban forces and Pakistani security forces in the Kurram-Khost border areas, with eyewitnesses saying the violence included heavy weaponry and one elder saying a Pakistani soldier had been killed, although that could not be confirmed.
The outbreak follows reports of intense clashes in the same border region between Afghanistan and Pakistan that caused multiple casualties over the weekend.Locals on the Afghan side of the bordertoldRadio Mashaal that the latest fighting started around 1 p.m. local time on September 9.Residents were said to be fleeing the villages of Palotsa and Setwan in the Zazai Maidan district of Afghanistan's Khost Province.
A local elder told Radio Mashaal that a Pakistani soldier had been killed but Radio Mashaal could not independently confirm that report.Intermittent outbreaks of violence have heightened concerns about security in the region, with recent fighting sparked by an attempt to erect a security outpost on the Afghan side that Pakistani troops tried to stop.Islamabad insists mutual agreements preclude the construction of new security posts by either side.The Taliban-led government in Afghanistan has disputed Pakistani accusations that it is allowing gunmen linked to the outlawed Tehrik-e Taliban to shelter in the area and launch cross-border attacks in Pakistan.The Taliban has moved reinforcement troops, artillery, and tanks to the area.Radio Mashaal's Khost correspondent said the Taliban was preventing locals and journalists from sharing information with media or outsiders.
The State Department accused House Republicans of cherry-picking the facts and withholding information in a lengthy report on the withdrawal of U.S. troops in Afghanistan in August 2021.
The State Department's response to the report issued by the House Foreign Affairs Committee on September 9 also highlighted the deeply partisan nature of the report in the midst of the U.S. presidential campaign.
The Republicans on the committee and other Republicans in the House of Representatives, where the party holds the majority, "issued partisan statements, cherry-picked facts, withheld testimonies from the American people, and obfuscated the truth behind conjecture," the State Departmentsaid.
The report specificallypointsto the Biden-Harris administration and their "failure to plan for all contingencies."
The House Republicans blamed the disastrous end of the United States' longest war on the Biden administration and Vice President Kamala Harris, the Democrats' current presidential nominee. The role of former President Donald Trump, who had signed the withdrawal deal with the Taliban, was minimized.
Representative Michael McCaul (Republican-Texas), chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said the review revealed that the Biden administration "had the information and opportunity to take necessary steps to plan for the inevitable collapse of the Afghan government."
But instead of taking steps toward a safe evacuatation "the administration picked optics over security," McCaul said in a statement.
The review lays out the final months of military and civilian failures, following Trump's February 2020 withdrawal deal, that allowed the fundamentalist Taliban to sweep through and conquer all of the country even before the last U.S. officials flew out on August 30, 2021.
The chaotic exit left behind many U.S. citizens, Afghan battlefield allies, women activists, and others at risk from the Taliban.
The State Department said Biden "acted in the best interests of the American people when he decided to bring our troops home and end America's longest war."
The department's response also drew similarities to a 2022 report prepared by Republican lawmakers, which it said "did a deep disservice to the American people by further politicizing U.S. policy towards Afghanistan instead of focusing on bipartisan solutions."
Kyrgyzstan's foreign minister said on September 6 that the country had taken the Taliban off of its terrorist list "to secure regional stability and further develop the ongoing dialogue." A day earlier, the Taliban-led Afghan government's Foreign Ministry expressed thanks to Bishkek for removing the group from its terrorist list. The Kyrgyz Prosecutor-General's Office earlier this week issued a list of 20 groups labeled as terrorist organizations. It did not include the Taliban. In early June, Kazakhstan said it removed the Taliban from its terrorist list. The Taliban regained control over Afghanistan in August 2021 after the withdrawal of U.S. troops from the country.To read the original story by RFE/RL's Kyrgyz Service, clickhere.
Welcome to The Azadi Briefing, an RFE/RL newsletter that unpacks the key issues in Afghanistan. To subscribe,click here.
I'm Abubakar Siddique, a senior correspondent at RFE/RL's Radio Azadi. Here's what I've been tracking and what I'm keeping an eye on in the days ahead.
The Taliban's spiritual leader, Mullah Haibatullah Akhundzada, appears to have made a rare trip outside his stronghold in southern Afghanistan.
The reclusive leader seldom leaves the southern city of Kandahar, which is known as the birthplace of the Taliban and has become the de facto capital under the militant group’s rule.
But this week, the Taliban said Akhundzada travelled to northern Afghanistan in what is believed to be his first trip to the region since the group’s takeover in 2021.
Videos uploaded by the Taliban on social mediashoweda long convoy of armored cars traveling to cities and towns in the provinces of Badghis, Faryab, Jowzjan, Balkh, and Samangan.
Akhundzada was not seen in any of the videos or photos released by the Taliban. In its press statements, the Taliban said he met local officials and called on them toenforcea new draconian morality law.
Adopted on August 21, the widely condemned law imposes severe restrictions on the appearances and movements of women and men.
Why It's Important:Akhundzada, a hard-line cleric, is believed to only meet a small cadre of Taliban officials and avoids public appearances. He has rarely met foreign diplomats or dignitaries visiting Afghanistan. The Taliban chief also avoids being photographed or filmed.
Sami Yousafzai, a veteran Afghan journalist and commentator,saidAkhundzada’s trip to northern Afghanistan was aimed at projecting power and confidence.
As the Taliban’s “Amir ul-Momineen," or leader of the faithful, Akhundzada has the final say on all important matters.
Akhundzada’s extremist policies, many of them reminiscent of those under the Taliban’s brutal regime in the 1990s, has made the militant group an international pariah.
What's Next:It’s unclear whether Akhundzada will play a more active and visible role, or if his recent trip was a one-off.
But what is clear is that he has consolidated power and empowered extremist clerics within the Taliban, despite growing internal opposition to his policies.
Afghan migrants and refugees have complained that they are being detained and harassed in neighboring Pakistan.
Police detained a group of Afghans in a neighborhood in the capital, Islamabad, on September 4.
"We were scared and surprised," Sabira, an Afghan woman, told RFE/RL'sRadio Azadi.
She said police questioned several Afghan families visiting a park in Islamabad's B-17 neighborhood.
Why It's Important:The detentions appear to suggest the Pakistani authorities could launch a new crackdown on Afghans.
Last year, Islamabad expelled more than 500,000 Afghans as part of its campaign to deport undocumented migrants from the country.
Earlier this year, Pakistan suspended the planned expulsion of more Afghans amid mounting international pressure.
That's all from me for now.
Don't forget to send me any questions, comments, or tips that you have. You can always reach us atazadi.english@rferl.org
Until next time,
Abubakar Siddique
If you enjoyed this briefing and don't want to miss the next edition,subscribe here. It will be sent to your inbox every Friday.
The Islamic State (IS) extremist group claimed responsibility on September 3 for an attack in the Afghan capital a day earlier that killed at least six people and injured 13 more. The attack is believed to have been targeting the Taliban-led government's prosecution offices. VOA's Pashto service and the AFP news agency quoted the IS group's Amaq media wing as claiming IS was behind what it said was a suicide attack once "prosecutor's employees were leaving their shifts." Some witnesses claimed a much higher death toll, and the Amaq report claimed "more than 45" had been killed or wounded. The Sunni-led Islamic State-Khorasan (IS-K) branch has carried out numerous attacks since the Taliban seized power in August 2021, often targeting Taliban officials, foreign nationals, and the Shi'ite Hazara community.
At least six people were killed and 13 injured in a blast in the Afghan capital, Kabul, on September 2, representatives of the de facto Taliban rulers said. Witnesses said the incident took place near the Attorney General's Office in the capital, with some residents telling RFE/RL's Radio Adazi that at least 15 people had been killed. Police officials declared it a "suicide attack," but details remain scarce. Residents near the emergency hospital in the Shahr-e Naw neighborhood told Radio Azadi they saw bodies and injured being taken by ambulance to the hospital. No group immediately claimed responsibility, but the Sunni-led Islamic State-Khorasan (IS-K) branch has carried out numerous attacks since the Taliban seized power in August 2021, often targeting Taliban officials, foreign nationals, and the Shi'ite Hazara community.To read the original story by RFE/RL’s Radio Azadi, clickhere.
Richard Bennett, the UN's special rapporteur on human rights in Afghanistan,sayshe has arrived in Qatar to meet with "diverse groups" of Afghan men and women, along with government representatives, on the situation in Afghanistan. The country's de facto Taliban rulersbarred Bennettfrom entering Afghanistan late last month, accusing him of "spreading propaganda." Since being appointed to the UN post in May 2022, Bennett has made several trips to Afghanistan and has accused the Taliban of violating human rights, especially in regard to the rights of girls and women.To read the original story by RFE/RL's Radio Azadi, clickhere.
The United Nations said it will continue to engage with all partiesin Afghanistan, including the Taliban, even after the hard-line rulers issued a “distressing” new morality law that severely bans women’s activities in public.
“We have been very vocal on the decision to further make women’s presence almost disappear in Afghanistan,” UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric told a news conference in New York on August 31.
“In terms of the contacts with the de facto authorities...we will continue to engage with all stakeholders in Afghanistan, including the Taliban.”
"We have always done so following our mandate. And I would say impartially and in good faith, always upholding the norms of the UN, pushing the messages of human rights and equality. And we will continue our work as mandated by the Security Council,” he added.
Roza Otunbayeva, the head of the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA), said on August 25 that the laws presented a “distressing vision” for Afghanistan’s future.
The laws expand the "already intolerable restrictions” on the rights of women and girls -- with “even the sound of a female voice” in public deemed a violation of morality laws.
The Taliban has attempted to police the public appearances and behavior of millions of Afghans, especially women, since seizing power in 2021.
Enforcement of the extremist group’s rules governing morality, including its strict Islamic dress code and gender segregation in society, was sporadic and uneven across the country.
But on August 21, the hard-line Islamist group formally codified into law its long set of draconian restrictions, triggering fear among Afghans of stricter enforcement.
The Law on the Propagation of Virtue and Prevention of Vice imposes severe restrictions on the appearances, behavior, and movement of women. The law also enforces constraints on men.
Taliban leaders say the laws are based on their interpretation of Shari'a law.
Several leading Afghan clerics have come out publicly to oppose the latest restrictions.
Mawlawi Abdul Sami Ghaznavi, said it was the Taliban’s "responsibility to create favorable conditions for women's education."
On August 27, theUN Human Commission on Human Rightsdemanded that the "repressive law be immediately repealed."
"This is utterly intolerable," it said.
"We call on the de facto authorities to immediately repeal this legislation, which is in clear violation of Afghanistan’s obligations under international human rights law."
Welcome to The Azadi Briefing, an RFE/RL newsletter that unpacks the key issues in Afghanistan. To subscribe,click here.
I'm Abubakar Siddique, a senior correspondent at RFE/RL's Radio Azadi. Here's what I've been tracking and what I'm keeping an eye on in the days ahead.
The Taliban's hard-line higher education minister has defended the extremist group's severe restrictions on female education.The Islamist group has barred girls from attending school past the sixth grade and banned women from going to university.In a press conference on August 24, Nida Mohammad Nadim said the Taliban's widely condemned restrictions were "not in conflict with Islam."He added that questioning the Taliban's policies on education were also banned.But that has not stopped senior Afghan clerics from criticizing Nadim and the Taliban's controversial education policies.Mawlana Sibghatullah Mawlawizada, one of the most senior clerics in the western city of Herat, on August 25 challenged Nadim to a public debate."I urge him to discuss the [religious] legality of [of the ban on] female education in the presence of national and international media," Mawlawizada said in avideomessage.Nadim has not publicly responded to Mawlawizada.Another leading Afghan cleric, Mawlawi Abdul Sami Ghaznavi, also challenged the Taliban. Hesaidit was the group's "responsibility to create favorable conditions for women's education."
Why It's Important:A growing number of Afghan religious scholars are openly challenging the Taliban's restrictions on female education.Even some Afghan clerics working for the Taliban-led government have publicly opposed the bans. They have said there is no justification for banning female education under Islam.Islamic scholars across the world have condemned the Taliban's restrictions. Afghanistan is the only country in the Muslim world where teenage girls and women are banned from receiving an education.
What's Next:Despite domestic and international criticism and pressure, the Taliban is unlikely to reverse its education bans.Since seizing power in 2021, the Taliban's extremist policies have made its unrecognized government an international pariah.
Protesters in northwestern Pakistan have blocked Torkham, a key border crossing with Afghanistan. The move has concerned Afghan traders who fear a big financial hit.Khan Jan Alakozai, a senior official of the Afghanistan-Pakistan Joint Chamber of Commerce, said thousands of trucks transporting fresh Afghan fruits and vegetables have been stranded at the crossing."If the border is not opened, some traders will lose their businesses altogether while others will incur mourning custom duties," he told RFE/RL'sRadio Azadion August 29.Since August 22, members of a Pashtun tribe displaced by a Pakistani military operation have blocked the crossing in protest.
Why It's Important: The frequent closures of Torkham and Chaman, another key crossing, have disrupted trade between the two neighbors.In recent years, Islamabad has closed the border crossings after clashes between Pakistani and Taliban border guards.Pakistan has also shuttered the border to pressure the Afghan Taliban to expel the Tehrik-e Taliban Pakistan extremist group, which is believed to be based in Afghanistan.
That's all from me for now.
Don't forget to send me any questions, comments, or tips that you have. You can always reach us atazadi.english@rferl.org
Until next time,
Abubakar Siddique
If you enjoyed this briefing and don't want to miss the next edition,subscribe here. It will be sent to your inbox every Friday.
Load more

RFE/RL has been declared an "undesirable organization" by the Russian government.
If you are in Russia or the Russia-controlled parts of Ukraine and hold a Russian passport or are a stateless person residing permanently in Russia or the Russia-controlled parts of Ukraine, please note that you could face fines or imprisonment for sharing, liking, commenting on, or saving our content, or for contacting us.
To find out more,click here.
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty © 2024 RFE/RL, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Title: Afghanistan complains about Pakistan to UNSC on terror and Taliban
Mumbai Metro Aqua Line 3: First phase of Mumbai's underground metro likely to be inaugurated in...; check speed, fare
New airline from Uttar Pradesh gets govt approval, set to compete with IndiGo, Air India
Transforming Contingent Workforce Management with Cutting-Edge Program Strategies
Meet woman with Rs 39322 crore net worth, who once led Rs 59262 crore company, she is India's richest...
Jatadhara makers Prerna Arora, Sudheer Babu Productions reveal striking second poster of supernatural epic
World
Afghanistan has also come hard on Pakistan and complained about the country to the United Nations security council.
Sidhant Sibal
Updated :Sep 20, 2019, 05:07 PM IST
Afghanistan has also come hard on Pakistan and complained about the country to the United Nations security council (UNSC) on Islamabad's engagement with Taliban and support to terror groups. The letter accessed by WION talks about how Pakistan is undermining the sovereignty of Afghanistan with its engagement with the Taliban.
The letter written by Afghanistan's Deputy Permanent Representative to United Nations Nazifullah Salarzai on Friday says Pakistan's engagements with Taliban which "are taking place under the pretext of support for peace efforts in Afghanistan" are "void of any degree of coordination and consultation with the Government of Afghanistan."
The letter explained Ghani's government's viewpoint of the Afghan peace process and said "Government of Afghanistan welcomes and appreciates all efforts aimed at achieving the goal of a peaceful settlement...so long as they are rendered in a manner that conforms to the established principle of Afghan ownership and leadership of the process"
Pakistan government had invited the Taliban for talks along with the United States on Monday with Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan also meeting the group. The Taliban in a release said at the "formal invitation of the government of Pakistan" meeting was scheduled to take place "between the negotiation teams of the Islamic Emirate and the US on 18th of February 2019 in Islamabad."
The Taliban in a statement said the meet has been postponed since most of the members of the group are on US/UN blacklist and cannot travel.
The Afghan govt in the letter slammed Khan-Taliban meet and said, "This initiative is a source of deep regret and concern to the people and Government of Afghanistan as it amounts to the official recognition and legitimization of an armed-group that poses a serious threat to the security and stability of Afghanistan"
Kabul said Pakistan's engagement with the Taliban also violates the "provisions of the 1988 Committee’s Sanctions Regime undermine efforts for a peaceful settlement of the current conflict."
Based on the Taliban statement issued on 12 February on the group’s website, members of the Taliban delegation who have been introduced and are listed in the 1988 Committee’s sanctions regime include: Sher Mohammad Stanekzai; Ziauddin Madani; Salam Hanafi; Shahubuddin Delawar; Abdul Latif Mansur; Amir Khan Motaqi; Fazl Mohammad Mazloom and Nurullah Nuri.
Afghan foriegn ministry spokesperson Sibghatullah Ahmadi also tweeted about the developments. In a tweet, Ahmadi said, "Afghanistan complains to UN Security Council on Pakistan’s engagements with the Taliban on which Afg Government is not consulted." Elaborating further he said, "It not only undermines the ongoing peace efforts but violates Afghanistan's National Sovereignty, also falls in violation of UNSC Resolution 1988."
India's official policy on the Afghan peace process is that it should be "Afghan owned, Afghan led and Afghan controlled".
Afghanistan also slammed Pakistan on its support to terrorism. The letter written a day after the Pulwama terror attack in India, said, "we also expect of, and call on the Government of Pakistan to take decisive action against known terrorist and extremist groups on its territory, which pose a common threat to Afghanistan, Pakistan and the region."
Further adding, " Any passivity in fulfilling this objective not only undermines broader counterterrorism efforts but also have a profound impact in providing further space and capacity for such groups to continue their attacks in Afghanistan and the wider region."
In past Afghanistan has raised Pakistan's support to terror in the region and asked Islamabad to stop giving safe haven to terrorists. A number of terror attacks in Afghanistan have been linked to terror outfits based in Pakistan.
Lok Sabha Elections 2024: Anupamaa' Star Rupali Ganguly Joins BJP, Says 'Big Fan' Of PM Modi
Salman Khan House Firing Case: Accused Anuj Thapan Dies By Suicide In Mumbai Police Custody
Lok Sabha Elections 2024: Congress' Rahul Gandhi-Amethi Suspense Making BJP Nervous? | Uttar Pradesh
Delhi Bomb Threat: Who Is Behind The Hoax Bomb Threat That Shut Down Hundred Schools In Delhi?
Bangladesh Protest: Unreal Scenes In Country After fresh Wave Of Protests |Sheikh Hasina

Title: Afghanistan Protests Pakistan Invitation To Taliban

By RFE/RL's Radio Mashaal February 17, 2019
Afghanistan has expressed concerns to the UN Security Council about a planned visit by Taliban negotiators to Pakistan, asserting that the militant group's members traveling to Islamabad are under UN sanctions and that Kabul should have been consulted prior to any such meeting.
Taliban negotiators on February 14 announced they will meet U.S. representatives in Pakistan on February 18 as part of ongoing Afghan peace talks and that they will also meet with Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan to hold "comprehensive discussions about Pakistan-Afghanistan relations."
In a letter to the Security Council seen by RFE/RL's Radio Mashaal, the Afghan UN mission wrote that the Taliban-Pakistan meeting "constitutes a violation of the national sovereignty of Afghanistan."
"These engagements, which are taking place under the pretext of support for peace efforts in Afghanistan, are void of any degree of coordination and consultation with the government of Afghanistan," it said.
The letter said that an invitation by Khan for a Taliban delegation to travel to Pakistan for talks "amounts to the official recognition and legitimization of an armed-group that poses a serious threat to the security and stability of Afghanistan, and whose members are sanctioned by provisions of the UN Security Council's 1988 Committee's Sanctions Regime."
Pakistan has not responded to remarks made in the Afghan letter to the Security Council.
The United States has not officially commented on the Taliban's announcement of a potential meeting in Islamabad.
Tensions run high between Afghanistan and Pakistan. Kabul and Washington have accused Islamabad of providing safe havens for terrorists in its territory, allowing them to cross the border into Afghanistan and attack government troops and Western forces. Pakistan denies the allegations.
The discussions in Islamabad would come a week before previously scheduled February 25 talks in Qatar between U.S. officials and Taliban negotiators.
Talks between U.S. officials -- including Zalmay Khalilzad, the special peace envoy for Afghanistan -- have intensified in recent months. Khalilzad and Taliban negotiators have both said progress has been made, but U.S. officials caution that much work needs to be done before an agreement can be finalized.
The U.S.-Taliban talks are aimed at finding a negotiated end to Afghanistan's 17-year war.
The United States has been attempting to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table with officials in Kabul.
The Afghan government has been absent from the U.S.-Taliban talks, prompting anger and frustration in Kabul. The Taliban considers the Kabul government a Western puppet and has so far refused to directly negotiate with it.
U.S. troops have been in Afghanistan since an October 2001 invasion that brought down the Taliban government after it refused to hand over Al-Qaeda terrorists, including Osama bin Laden, blamed for launching the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States.

Source:https://www.rferl.org/a/afghanistan-protests- pakistan-taliban-invitation/29774496.html
Copyright (c) 2019. RFE/RL, Inc. Reprinted with the permission of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, 1201 Connecticut Ave., N.W. Washington DC 20036.



Title: Turkey may help Moscow with Afghan negotiations - Al-Monitor: The Middle Eastʼs leading independent news source since 2012
Or continue reading this article for free -
            Access 1 free article per month when you sign up.
Al-Monitor is an award-winning media outlet covering the Middle East, valued for its independence, diversity and analysis. It is read widely by US, international and Middle East decision makers at the highest levels, as well as by media, thought and business leaders and academia.
By becoming an Al-Monitor subscriber, you drive our team’s rigorous and independent journalism spanning the Middle East.

Keep up with Al-Monitor's top stories with a morning digest from across the region.
For subscription inquiries, please contactsubscription.support@al-monitor.com.
For all other inquiries, please usecontactus@al-monitor.com.

Title: Terror, rivalry of key powers are hurdles to Afghan peace | Terror, rivalry of key powers are hurdles to Afghan peace
The Afghan Taliban have emerged from the shadows to claim the right to again govern Afghanistan. Although the process may be tortuous, they are likely to succeed. Apart from President Ashraf Ghani and his coterie, and some others in Kabul, most Afghan groups and leaders appear ready to negotiate an Afghan political structure in which the Taliban would play a dominant role.
The Taliban’s impending triumph would vindicate the long-standing assessment of Pakistan’s security establishment that the US would eventually leave Afghanistan while the Taliban would prove resilient and eventually return to power. They have now been invited to meet Prime Minister Imran Khan in Islamabad where there is justifiable expectation of a resumed close relationship with Afghanistan once the Taliban assume a leading political role in Kabul.
Contrary to the propaganda spread by its adversaries about "strategic depth", Pakistan's core interest is the establishment of durable peace and stability in Afghanistan. There are four formidable challenges which still stand in the way.
The first, of course, is the development of an intra-Afghan consensus on the new structure of governance. US withdrawal will leave the Taliban as the main organised force in the country. The old north-south divide has been replaced by more complex power dynamics where, apart from the Taliban, power is exercised by a number of ethnic and regional groups and warlords and by several terrorist groups such as the Islamic State-Khorasan, Al Qaeda and their affiliates. Like the US, Afghanistan's neighbours — Pakistan, Iran, Russia and China —are all anxious to see a governance structure in Kabul which will oppose these groups. The Taliban have assured the US and others that they will not allow Afghan territory to be used again for extra-territorial terrorism.
Unfortunately, there are firmly held suspicions that some of these groups are being used by some state actors against their adversaries. Russia and Iran have accused the US of supporting IS-K elements in parts of Afghanistan. China has questions about the Uighur separatist ETIM's presence there. Sponsored by Indian and Afghan intelligence, the TTP, HuA and the BLA conduct cross-border attacks against Pakistan from eastern Afghanistan. Tehran complains about anti-Iran extremist Sunni groups on its borders with Afghanistan (and Pakistan). In these circumstances, the US proposal that it retain a small counter-terrorism force in Afghanistan following the withdrawal of its troops is unlikely to be palatable either to the Taliban or most of Afghanistan's neighbours.
Restoring peace in Afghanistan will also require money —  lots of it. The US is spending an estimated $45 billion annually in Afghanistan, largely on its own military. An estimated $6-8bn is spent annually on the Afghan security forces and a fraction on the civilian government and programmes. Several billion dollars will be needed yearly to rehabilitate and reconstruct Afghanistan. Without money, the Afghan National Army would disintegrate, unpaid militias would resort to banditry and the country could descend into chaos. The US is unlikely to provide existing levels of military or civilian financing, especially if its “counter-terrorism” presence is rejected. Among Afghanistan's neighbours only China, Saudi Arabia and some other GCC countries can afford large financial outlays.
In consultation with the Taliban, other interested Afghan parties, and neighboring countries, Pakistan should activate regional development institutions (Islamic Development Bank, China Development Bank, etc) to identify and develop a plan to meet Afghanistan's reconstruction and development requirements. Islamabad could then convene an international conference to secure the financial commitments to implement these plans.
Finally, durable peace and security in Afghanistan will depend on the level and nature of external interference in its internal affairs. This, in turn, will depend on whether the major powers, specially Russia, China and the US, cooperate to rebuild Afghanistan or if their strategic competition, radiating globally from Europe, the Middle East and the 'Indo-Pacific', envelops Afghanistan and its neighbourhood. Sadly, in Washington at least, the impulse for competition appears stronger than the compulsion of cooperation. Like Pakistan, Afghanistan will find it difficult to sit on the fence in the widening Sino-US rivalry. In another repeat of history, Kabul, under the Taliban, may move closer to Beijing, Moscow and Tehran, rather than Washington and its allies.
By arrangement with Dawn

Title: “Faint lights twinkling against the dark”: Reportage from the fight against ISKP in Nangrahar - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
Author: Andrew Quilty.
It has been almost four years since the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) captured territory in southern Nangrahar province, where it ruled with extreme brutality, and nearly two years since the United States military and Afghan government forces began concertedly fighting the group there. (The Taleban, too, have fought ISKP sporadically.) The last commander of NATO and US forces, General John Nicholson, vowed then that he intended to defeat ISKP in 2017. It has been driven back, but still holds some territory – and the ‘battle’ goes on, with ISKP mainly now targeting civilians in large-scale, urban, terrorist attacks. In this dispatch, we get an eye-witness account of the fighting in Nangrahar from journalist Andrew Quilty* and juxtapose it with excerpts from an article that appeared in the German media.
Journalists Andrew Quilty, from Australia, and Wolfgang Bauer, from Germany, have both spent time with pro-government forces fighting ISKP, also known as Daesh, in the Mamand valley of Achin district. Quilty was based in a small US special forces base, while Bauer was with a unit of the Afghan National Border Police (ANBP). Their reportage gives insight into the daily life of soldiers, police and local civilians. They discuss air strikes and cooperation between US and Afghan forces and the difficulty of shifting ISKP from territory and from minds. They share one conclusion, that the fight against ISKP will only succeed if the local population come to trust the government and they question the US special forces alliance with one local strongman in particular, a commander of an Afghan Local Police unit named Belal Pacha, whom locals accused of murder and kidnap. After the end of Quilty and Bauer’s reporting trips, Belal was arrested and jailed.
Both journalists have anonymised the names of soldiers and officers.
Andrew Quilty: 2018
With their heads bowed, the 12-man Operational Detachment Alpha (ODA) team gathered around the visiting army chaplain. It was July 2018 and at 7am, as the sun flooded the Mamand Valley in eastern Afghanistan’s Nangrahar Province, it was already sweltering.  “…As we impose costs on the enemy,” said the chaplain, “[we] strike fear into their hearts, and deal blows of death from which they will not recover.” The team chuckled with approval at the violence evoked by a holy man, then mounted their vehicles and departed. It was one of the final missions of their six-month deployment to rid the valley, less than ten miles from the border with Pakistan, of fighters from the Islamic State’s Afghanistan branch, the ISKP.
The rise of ISKP
The so-called Islamic State was declared by Iraqi-born Abu Bakr al Baghdadi, in Mosul, Iraq, in June 2014. That same year, militants from Pakistan were welcomed by communities in southern Nangrahar after they had crossed the Durand Line from their redoubts in North Waziristan, one of Pakistan’s Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA). They were fleeing Pakistani military operations. By April 2015, those militants were pledging allegiance to the new, self-declared caliph in Iraq.
Prior to this, residents of the Mamand Valley had lived for several years under uncontested Taleban rule – described by some as strict but fair, and by others as merely “less cruel than Daesh.” Taleban control across southern Nangrahar at that time was characterised by a lack of cohesion that made for ineffective shadow governance. ISKP seized on the disorder and forced the Taleban out. ISKP was also able to establish itself in southern Nangrahar because of the disarray and rivalry that ran through government, security and societal networks. As then AAN researcher Borhan Osman wrote, in September 2017. “The weakness of these anti-ISKP forces [government, tribal and Taleban] was coupled with the vitality of two pro-ISKP forces: small militant groups lacking fixed loyalties and the Salafi militants fighting in the ranks of the insurgency.” He continued, “As for local communities, in essence… they have been consistently undermined in recent decades and had become too divided to stand as a bulwark against a new and extremely brutal armed group.”
Locals described the new group as initially ruling benevolently, but then descending into “darkness.” At first, ISKP offered generous salaries to new recruits, sometimes exploiting inter-tribal rivalries and local grievances to strengthen their ranks. Some Taleban groups defected and soon foreign fighters from Central Asia and the Caucasus also began to appear, joining the Pakistanis already in the valley. Within months, however, ISKP changed. Their edicts grew harsher even than those the Taleban had inflicted on Afghans during their time in power (1996 to 2001). The atrocities for which ISKP would quickly become famous – including murder, house burning, forced marriage and closing schools – gave most residents little choice but to leave. In 2015, thousands of families fled Achin, the site of ISKP’s first ‘capital’.
Joint US-Afghan operations against ISKP began across southern Nangrahar in early April 2017. After retaking several villages between Achin district centre and the foot of the Spinghar Mountains, the advance of the US special forces and their Afghan allies, foremost among them, the Afghan National Army Special Forces (ANASF), stalled at the mouth of the Mamand Valley, where ISKP fighters fought from a decades-old cave complex. On April 13 2017, President Trump authorised the use of the largest non-nuclear bomb ever used in combat – the so-called Mother Of All Bombs, shortened to ‘MOAB’. It obliterated the ISKP frontline and allowed special forces into the valley (see AAN reporting here). The US established Observation Post (OP) Bravo, just over a kilometre from the site of the MOAB.
The following month, in May 2017, General John Nicholson, then commander of US forces in Afghanistan, declaredhis intent “to defeat ISIS-K [Islamic State of Iraq and Syria in Khorasan, aka ISKP] in 2017.”
Visiting Blackfish
Captain J – mild-mannered with a scruffy, ginger beard – arrived in the Mamand Valley ten months after Nicholson’s declaration, in March 2018. He was on his first combat tour at the age of 31. His Army Green Beret team, from 2nd Battalion, First Special Forces Group, based out of Tacoma, Washington state, was the third team to occupy OP Bravo. They renamed the base ‘Combat Outpost (COP) Blackfish’, after their team logo, which combines the team’s home-base on America’s Pacific Ocean coast and a marine ‘animal of war’, the killer whale, also known in Washington state as ‘blackfish’.
Blackfish was established in an abandoned Afghan farm compound. A colourfully-painted concrete structure contained the ‘team room’ of the ODA (short for Operational Detachment Alpha, the 12-person team made up of Army Green Berets, and an Airforce Combat Controller and ‘parajumper’). The room was filled with combat equipment and shelves stocked with junk food and energy drinks. There were three small bedrooms and, separated by a flat-pack timber wall, an operations room. This was the only part of the base I was forbidden to enter. A black Islamic State flag was still painted on the wall from the time the militants had occupied it.
Despite being in one of the most hostile districts in the country, at the time, the ODA’s physical defences were meagre. While the corners of Blackfish were manned by conventional soldiers with heavy machine guns, some of the base’s boundaries were secured by nothing more than knee-high concertina-wire. Part of the reason could be heard, almost constantly, in the sky above. SOF’s place, high in the US military hierarchy, means they have almost unparalleled access to air support, including F16 jets, Apache attack helicopters, surveillance and weaponised drones and B1 bombers. On at least one occasion during the two embeds I was invited on, there were no less than five ‘air assets’ circling above Blackfish.
After two previous ODAs and their Afghan National Army Special Forces (ANASF) counterparts had fought their way into Mamand, Captain J’s mission was to continue pushing ISKP back, extending the Afghan government’s reach into Achin’s remote valleys. Two months before the team arrived, a member of the previous ODA, Sergeant 1st Class Mihail Golin had been killed and four others wounded in a firefight. Captain J’s team had six months to extend the ‘government’s reach’ by clearing more territory of ISKP fighters and building checkpoints for the ANSF to man as they progressed. He had never been to Afghanistan before.  Yet, in some ways, his mission was less fraught than it might seem at first sight. ISKP has been roundly rejected by Afghans, so the ODA was joining a popular fight. In Achin, the US military presence appeared even to be tolerated by local Taleban, for one good reason, as Captain J explained, “We think people associate us with the absence of ISIS-K.” Furthermore, almost all residents had long since fled Mamand when Captain J arrived in early 2018, so the risk of incurring civilian casualties in their area of operations – another cause of hostility towards US forces – was almost nil. Tolerance, however, was no guarantee of the soldiers’ safety. As he told me another time, Captain J aimed never to travel by road from COP Blackfish—through Achin, Shinwar and Bati Kot Districts—to the nearest major US base at Jalalabad airfield: an ambush, he believed, would be almost inevitable.
In terms of its specific mission, continuing to push ISKP back, Captain J’s ODA was wholly successful. But he liked to look at their mission in far broader terms. “It’s not one or two fighters… hiding up in the mountains, it’s the organisation and ideology as a whole,” he told me. “I kind of took it seriously that 12 of us were asked to hold the line between ISIS and the greater population of Afghanistan.”
For Achin and Mamand Valley, the success of the anti-ISKP mission will partly depend – along with seeing functioning governance established – on building up the Afghan National Army Special Forces [ANASF], who have been close allies of the US special forces mission. Mentoring the Afghan special forces has been central to US’ Freedom’s Sentinel counter-terrorism mission in Afghanistan, as a whole. Not everyone in the team is convinced of the efficacy of this, however.
The ODA’s Master Sergeant, ‘D’, a four-tour Afghanistan veteran who commands respect beyond his rank, does not hide his frustration when the ‘subtleties’ of the mission appear to him to come before killing. During a mission into the Takhto Valley, east of Mamand, in July 2018, Master Sergeant D voiced his suspicions to the author that the Afghan mine clearance team were, as he put it “slow-rolling” their sweep because they did not want to go into the valley. “It was different back in the day, before the whole ‘Afghan-face’ thing,” he said, referring to the strategy of having the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) ostensibly leading missions. “Now, it’s a constant struggle just to push the Afghans forward.” Captain J was more sanguine. He also thinks there are deep-rooted problems within the ANSF that lead to a lack of motivation in places like Mamand. “Some of the guys [understand] that it [is] their country and they [need] to fight, other guys [don’t] seem to care.”
The reality may be very different. One de-miner attached to the team, who wore a “FUCK ISIS” patch on his shoulder, told me how hard their job was. “In these narrow valleys and against IS as an enemy, I’m very cautious.” Just a couple of months previously, one of his National Mine Reduction Group (NMRG) team mates had found an IED during a foot patrol with the same ODA. “He was preparing to ‘bip’ it with C4 [an explosive], stepped back a few metres and stepped on another mine. He died instantly. It takes only one mistake to lose the lives of friends.” Moreover, for the de-miners and the Afghan special forces soldiers working alongside the ODA, fighting and de-mining is a daily reality, not a one-off, six-month deployment.
Later, on the mission into Takhto, after hiking six kilometres into the valley, the ODA stopped under a tree. Last time they had come this far they had taken fire and lost an Afghan commando. They rested with two Afghan special forces officers and the mine clearance team as Afghan special forces teams pushed forward, high up on the ridges either side of the valley. There had been the occasional round coming from a ‘hook’ in the valley ahead, so the men were alert, but with two Apache helicopters cruising overhead in slow circuits, I sensed that most of the team considered missions like this one boring, unless they were getting shot at.
Then, without warning, a shot rang out. For seconds, no one could work out where it had come from, but it sounded close. Everyone but an Afghan captain, W, jumped to their feet. He had a trickle of blood running from where a bullet fragment, part of a single round accidentally fired by a de-miner, had ricocheted off a rock and lodged in his temple. The wound was minor, but for Captain W, who had been wounded in combat twice before, it signified more. By the time the ODA’s medic was cleaning the wound back at Blackfish, Captain W had fallen into a gloom emblematic of the low morale that plagues the ANSF. “It’s been eight years. I’m tired,” he said. “I will try to go to Europe.”
Airstrikes
For Captain J, his greatest asset in his Mamand mission is AB, a US air force combat controller attached to the team. AB coordinates all US (the author saw no Afghan air assets and it seems unlikely they would be needed with so much America airpower available), as well as remotely-fired artillery and rockets. At 25, the power he wields with a radio and ATAK – a smartphone-like device used for mapping fighting positions – is in contrast to his surfer image. He typifies the American special forces ‘off-the-leash’ reputation. Unkempt brown hair escaped from the sides of his baseball cap, blending into a beard cultivated with deliberate neglect. He wore cheap knock-off Ray-Ban Wayfarer sunglasses and, on-base, ‘combat Crocs’, plastic sandals.
Combat Controllers like AB, and ‘Joint Terminal Air Controllers’ (JTAC) as their army equivalents are known, are responsible for the targeting and requesting of almost every airstrike that the US military conducts in combat. In 2018, in Afghanistan, the US dropped more munitions (7,362 according to US Air Force Central Command) than in any other year since the war began. The report, published on February 8 2019, states that the strikes were “[i]n support of Operation Freedom’s Sentinel to prevent Afghanistan from becoming a safe haven for ISIS-K, al-Qaeda and other terrorist organizations…” and that “The missions assisted Afghan National Defense and Security Forces operations in applying military pressure in coordination with the international community’s effort to set conditions for a political solution in Afghanistan.”
However, a day spent at Blackfish shows why such figures might be misleading. AB’s JTAC counterpart, Sergeant 1st Class ‘D’, said he had called in more than 100 airstrikes just four months into his deployment, including several during my second embed with the team. None, however, targeted fighters. Instead, the two used their seemingly limitless firepower to keep ISKP fighters off high ground from where they might mount an attack, for “softening up an area before going out there,” as he put it, and even to allow new pilots target-practice in a combat zone.
Even for strikes against non-human targets, however, a request had to make its way through several links in the chain of command for approval. More than once during my time with the ODA, team members expressed frustration at the reluctance of their superiors to hit what they believed were legitimate targets. One Green Beret had spent time in the NATO Special Operations Component Command-Afghanistan Joint Operations Centre, where ground and air missions are overseen at Bagram Airfield, and, without elaborating, said he could understand why airstrikes took so long to approve. Since he was now “back on a team,” though, he could not hide his frustration with delays and denials. “Now,” he said, “I’m like, ‘come on.’”
One evening, the team’s attached mortar platoon fired over 200 rounds into a fold of the valley from where friendly forces had once been shot at, for ‘terrain denial’. On other occasions 500lb bombs were dropped on what I was told were ISKP ‘defensive fighting positions’. Captain J explained it as defence by offence. “We are not,” he said, “directly dropping bombs on bad guys, [but it’s] an effective tool for increasing force protection at a remote site [like COP Blackfish].” After a suspected ISKP fighting position overlooking Blackfish was destroyed in an F16 strike in April 2018, the team’s communications expert picked up radio chatter from near the site: “They’ve destroyed everything, even my clothes.”
Airstrikes do not always go to plan. The first three days of my visit to Blackfish in April 2018 were spent mostly indoors, sheltering from rain, with some killing time playing X-Box. AB, who was planning an escape from the military into venture capitalism, studied a book by Warren Buffet. Everyone took their turn manoeuvring ammunition cans beneath leaks in the roof, emptying them as they filled. They shunned the formalities of military hierarchy, calling one another by nicknames rather than by rank.
The low, heavy clouds had mostly cleared by late afternoon on my third day. The air was electric blue, and unseasonably frigid. In the ODA’s operation’s room, the team’s communications expert picked up a radio conversation and triangulated the source to a mountain the team had dubbed ‘Pandora’, about two miles away. Pilots in Apaches soon spotted footprints in the snow, then three figures lying prone beneath the canopy.
On the roof of Blackfish, AB, the Combat Controller, spoke with the pilots via radio. “I don’t think they’re sun-baking,” he said, scanning the ridge through a spotting scope. In the operations room, Captain J began negotiations with his superiors via radio for authority to strike. The helicopter pilots needed to refuel and turned back for Jalalabad Airfield. AB turned to Captain J, who had climbed the stairs to the roof. “We’ve got a B1, 45 minutes out,” he said, referring to a supersonic, heavy-bombing aircraft. As the colour faded from the landscape, a thick, fuzzy cloud began floating down the mountains toward where the three figures lay. Within 15 minutes it had enveloped the ridge. AB, now alone on the roof, his face illuminated by the screen of his ATAK, radioed to call the B1 crew off. The Apaches returned, but were blind above the cloud. To the night falling around him, and me, AB thought out loud: “All the might of the US military; brought down by a cloud.”
Equally vital to the ODA’s mission were its relationships with local power-brokers. The secretary of the Achin District Council, Mohammad Ayaz, explained how fraught these can be. “The problems occur,” he told this author, “when [Afghan] Local Police commanders take control of villages to which they don’t belong.” One such commander, Belal Pacha, originally from Kunar, defected from the Taleban to the government in 2015 but, the author was told, retains strong connections with Taleban in the area. His reputation for extortion and murder provoked hundreds of men to protest against his allegedabuses in September 2018, in Momand Dara district. A suicide bomber infiltrated the protesters, killing 70 and wounding as many as 200. Pacha’s reputation was well-known to the ODA, but they relied on his cooperation to secure a nearby area. This pattern, of the US military relying on abusive figures for capturing or holding territory, is a familiar one; from 2001 onwards, it has been a symptom of the short US deployment cycle, where expediency is prioritised over long-term consequences. Captain J told me, “We knew [Pacha] was a bad dude, so we always kept our distance, but he had a lot of contacts in the area and we needed his influence.”
Belal Pacha and two of his brothers were arrested, tried in court in Jalalabad and sentenced to six years in prison soon after the demonstration, but it remains to be seen whether the problems surrounding rogue ALP units and local militias, will be dealt with by the time the Americans hand over to local forces.
Belal Pacha was the sort of person who helped ferment the discord that enabled ISKP to roll into Achin in the first place, in 2015. That he and others like him have been recent US special forces allies does not bode well. Most people from Achin I spoke to believe that once the Americans leave the Mamand Valley, unless the government has the support of the local population – and that means genuine and widespread support, not just the support of a few strongmen –  it will not be able to hold the area against the Taleban or ISKP for long.
Looking ahead
By July 2018, General Nicholson had wound back his early optimism but vowed to continue the mission until it was complete. “ISIS has proven to have a degree of resilience in southern Nangrahar,” he told me. “They’re tough fighters and they’ll be steadily reduced and we’re going to continue the fight until it’s complete.”
In Achin the following week, residents were slowly trickling back into the Mamand and Takhto Valleys. “The highlight mission at the end… was seeing [Takhto] one last time,” Captain J told me via email from Blackfish shortly before he finished his deployment in September. “About 40 to 50 civilians were roaming around [in an area they had only recently cleared], collecting wheat up and going through abandoned houses. It is nice to see that after [six] months of work, a small valley like that could be given back to the Afghan population.”
At the start of their mission, aside from the fighters still lurking among the homes, Mamand Valley appeared lifeless. By its end, from Blackfish at night, five faint lights could be seen twinkling against the dark.
Outside Captain J’s area of operations, however, the fight against ISKP is less convincing. After pushing fighters back in Achin, US special forces teams did the same in neighbouring Kot District. With ISKP on the run, US Army Green Berets handed their base there over to the Afghan National Army and pursued the fighters further west into Deh Bala, where the militants had established a new de-facto capital, five kilometres southwest of the district centre, in Gargari. The Green Berets built another base, Camp Blackbeard (named after a coffee company run by special forces veterans), on a flat, dusty hilltop near the district centre in June 2018. From there, according to a spokesperson for the US military in Afghanistan, US and Afghan special forces killed 167 ISKP fighters and destroyed caves and weapons caches in a five-day-operation to retake Gargari in June 2018. Surviving ISKP fighters then re-grouped in the caves of Tora Bora, in Pachieragam District, where Osama bin Laden once hid out. There, they remain.
As of January 2019, according to the latest quarterly report from the US Special Inspector General for SIGAR Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR), published on 30 January 2019, Achin is now ‘under government influence’. (2) Here, it remains ISKP, not the Taleban, which is still the second most important player (after the government). Interviewees for a forthcoming AAN dispatch on Achin (part of a series on service deliveries in insurgency-influenced areas – the introduction can be read here), also confirmed that ISKP is still not yet gone from the district. It continues to operate in mountainous areas of the Spinghhar range, including at least some parts of the Mamand, Pekha and Bandar valleys. Interviewees told AAN ISKP is still running its own prison and court systems in parts of the Mamand valley
We asked Resolute Support for an update on where they thought the fight with ISKP now was. In a statement, they said, “In terms of Mohmand, Takhto and Baghdara Valley, we’re not providing detailed operational updates to the media.” The statement said that Resolute Support is continuously build[ing] understanding” of the threat posed by ISKP embodied and “move to and operate from locations where we can achieve effects to disrupt and destroy their capabilities… using targeted operations and enabling capable local security partners.”
ISKP has proved a difficult enemy to dislodge, mainly for reasons of geography, as Borhan Osman, now the International Crisis Group’s head researcher for Afghanistan, said to this author, “With a vast recruitment pool on both sides of the border, it’s hard to defeat [them] militarily without addressing the reasons for the emergence of ISKP in the first place… You can’t just kill them to death.”
ISKP’s territorial control in eastern Afghanistan, has shrunk markedly since the Afghan/US campaign against it began in 2017. Yet, the group’s ability to hit its enemies hard has not abated. The vast majority of those enemies are now Afghan civilians and the toll ISKP has wreaked on them has been devastating. When anti-ISKP operations began in April 2017, the militants began attacking ‘soft’ targets; schools and health clinics in Nangrahar, and Afghan Shia Muslims, mainly ethnic Hazaras, in Kabul and elsewhere (see some of AAN reporting here, here and here). In less than two years, ISKP has claimed responsibility for more than 50 separate bombings or complex attacks that have claimed nearly 900, mainly civilian, lives.
Wolfgang Bauer, November 2017 and February 2018
Wolfgang Bauer, a German journalist with the Hamburg weekly, Die Zeit, provides another perspective on the US and Afghan special forces’ fight against ISKP in Achin district. He was embedded with a 14-strong Afghan National Border Police (ANBP) unit posted on a hill overlooking the village of Abdulkhel. All the policemen were from outside Nangrahar. Bauer also had a view of the US special forces’ base Andrew Quilty visited, which is located on a mountain ridge. Bauer’s original German text can be read here. What follows is a summary made by AAN senior analyst, Thomas Ruttig.
Abdulkhel village, which was under Taleban control between 2012 and 2015, then ISKP after they pushed the Taleban out. Pro-government forces (unspecified in original text) took back half of the village between 2015 and February 2018. Abdulkhel is divided by a river that is dry for part of the year and today, Abdulkhel’s river divides the government and the ISKP-controlled sectors of the village. Since pro-government forces took half of Abdulkhel, ISKP fighters have twice overran the government post, each time killing almost all the policemen present, 22 in all. Their severed heads were displayed for weeks dangling from a mobile phone antenna on a neighbouring hill.
Yet it was Taleban brutalities, a local malek (village chief) told Bauer, had paved the way for the ISKP’s 2015 takeover. Quickly-rotating Taleban commanders had villagers killed who worked for the government, kidnapped businessmen and killed those who did not pay ransom. They killed mullahs who criticised their behaviour. As a result, the villagers were initially happy when the ISKP fighters arrived. But then, they discovered, ISKP did not “respect local traditions.” They banned women from shopping in the bazaar, told men to grow their hair long and suppressed poppy growing. Both Taleban and ISKP exploited family feuds to get local support.
The Taleban, when in control, had also initially stopped the construction of a madrasa that had been privately initiated by a local religious scholar and financed with World Bank money through the government (scheme not specified in original text). The provincial head of education department, however, sent a delegation to meet Taleban leaders in Pakistan who finally agreed to it. The madrasa began teaching, not only religious, but also ‘modern’ subjects. When ISKP took over, it closed the madrasa again. As the madrasa is on the government-controlled side of the river, it had re-opened, and even children from the ISKP side attend. However, the madrasa’s head teacher told Bauer, they have adapted IS ways of live and thinking, and speak even against the mullahs on the government side.
The Afghan Local Police unit Bauer visited was tasked with intercepting ISKP fighters driven out of the nearby Mamand valley. It was a 70-strong unit and lead by the notorious commander, Belal Pacha. It cooperated with, and was supported by the newly-deployed US special forces. Belal, Bauer mentions, had been part of a ‘Taleban splinter group’ linked with the Pakistani Taleban umbrella, the TTP (which also includes Afghans), until 2015 when he changed sides and was now paid by the Americans.
The US forces, Bauer wrote, “monitor phone traffic in the day and hunt the ISKP at night.” He also described their plentiful air support. On a daily basis, B-52s, other jets and helicopters circled over the village. He described how one afternoon, a B-52 fired on the houses on the other side of the river. “Children run around in panic between the mud houses. Then, dust starts to cover the village. Once more it fires higher into the hillside, where the pastures are where the children graze their village’s goats.”
“We do not consider them civilians,” the Afghan border police commander told Bauer about those families.
Bauer is told the story of two boys killed in a similar incident the day after he left, in November 2017. He contacted the US military, he said, but did not receive any reply by the time of publication.
Belal’s fighters, who had pushed out ISKP from one half of the village, were ‘taxing’ local traffic and businesses at their checkpost at the road leading into Abdulkhel, according to the ABP unit commander and a local firewood trader. Altogether, the trader said, there are six checkposts on the way to the next bigger bazaar where he was being forced to pay ‘tax’. Some of the checkpoints were controlled by the Afghan National Police (in the district centre) and others by other ALP commanders, among them some loyal to Nangrahar strongman and MP, Haji Zaher. Belal sometimes accused traders of working for ISKP and confiscated all their wood. He would then take it to the bazaar on a lorry he had also stolen. Belal, the trader said, “is the worst” and that, because of him, he now hated “the government and the IS.”
Belal was also playing the role of the local judge, Bauer observed, as there was no other judicial authority. He publicly took money from the parties. The local maleks and mullahs accused him of killing villagers without trial, of kidnapping businessmen and maintaining a private jail and of torture. They complained to the provincial police chief and asked for Belal’s arrest – by then, without result. They also accused provincial officials of being paid by Belal. Belal was finally arrested in October and, with two brothers, jailed.
Belal was also said to have shot people when he was high on drugs. He kept a disabled boy, whom Bauer thought was then 12 years old as a ‘dancing boy’ (ie an underage youth kept for sex). The ABP commander told Bauer, Belal was the “scourge of this valley, worse than the Taleban and IS put together.”
Bauer returned to Abdulkhel once more in February 2018, after a cold, but almost snowless winter. 60 people, he was told, had died from the cold, whooping cough and from ‘poverty’. People did not dare to go to the mountains where they used to collect firewood, anymore as these areas were controlled by ISKP. The local clinic had no medication anymore. And as the local opium factories had been closed, people were deprived of cash income. Hundreds, Bauer is told, had been living from the drug economy.
Bauer concluded, that the Americans have established the countrywide system of the [Afghan] Local Police. The US military believes that they cannot stop the IS and Taleban’s advance without men like Belal. In Abdulkhel they have created a monster, though, he said, and: For most people in the village, this monster is the government in Kabul, that put Belal in place.
Edited by Kate Clark
Material in this dispatch originally appeared in a New York Times article: Andrew Quilty “The Last Americans Fighting in Afghanistan”, 5 October 2018.
(1) After an initial Taleban attempt to regain territory in Mamand in July 2015 which called on local men to join in the fight, ISKP retook the territory and detained 80 men and executed 11, in brutal fashion. Residents fled and ISKP confiscated their lands and property, settling new fighters, arriving from Orakzai and Bajaur agencies, along with their families, there. In subsequent fighting, both Taleban and ISKP targeted civilians they believed were linked to the other party, as they sought to gain the upper hand; that included burning homes, public executions and forced exile. ISKP also closed schools and government-run clinics and banned opium cultivation. For detail on all this, how ISKP managed to establish a base in Nangrahar and the repercussions for local civilians, see:
Borhan Osman, “The Islamic State in ‘Khorasan’: How it began and where it stands now in Nangarhar”, AAN, 27 July 2016.
David Mansfield, “The Devil is in the Details: Nangarhar’s continued decline into insurgency, violence and widespread drug production”, AREU, February 2016.
See UNAMA’s “Afghanistan Annual Report 2015 Protection Of Civilians In Armed Conflict” for detail on civilian displacement and ISKP closures of schools and threats against health facilities and workers.
(2) SIGAR categorizes each area into five categories: under insurgent control, under insurgent influence, neutral/at risk, under government influence and under government control. The SIGAR map of control is based on NATO RS assessments, which consider such issues as who governs, who gets taxes, who controls infrastructure and who controls ‘messaging’ in a district (for further explanation, see page 5 of this report).
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:42Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:42Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Afghanistan: Authorities must ensure civilian victims have access to justice - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
As efforts to initiate discussion on peace and reconciliation in Afghanistan begin, the latest UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan`s (UNAMA) 2018 report on “Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict” declares a record high number of civilian casualty in Afghanistan with a staggering number of 10,993 civilian casualties reported in 2018.
Responding to UNAMA`s report, Amnesty International’s South Asia Campaigner Samira Hamidi said:
“The UNAMA report on civilian casualties in Afghanistan is deeply alarming. It reports 10,993 civilian casualties, including 3,804 civilian deaths and 7,189 injuries. The shocking number of dead and injured civilians in Afghanistan once again demonstrates the need for victims to access justice and reparations, and the need to create an environment of accountability.”
The increase in civilian casualties have been attributed to attacks perpetrated by Anti-Government Elements (AGEs) such as the Taliban, Daesh/Islamic State Khorosan Province (ISKP) along with pro government forces as well. According to the report, “2018 witnessed the highest number of civilian casualties ever recorded from suicide attacks and aerial operations.”
“Women and children continue to bear the brunt, suffering the worst of the violence. 927 children were killed in 2018 which is the highest number recorded and is extremely disturbing,” said Samira Hamidi.
“The authorities in Afghanistan must ensure respect for the rights of the victims of these attacks during any peace negotiations, which must include their participation and consultation in the process. All parties to the conflict must immediately end attacks directed at civilians and must prioritise steps to prevent harming civilian and civilian objects during combat.”
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 21 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: UN: Afghan Civilian Deaths Rise to New High in 2018 - New Delhi Times - India's Only International Newspaper - Empowering Global Vision, Empathizing with India
The United Nations says the armed conflict in Afghanistan last year killed more than 3,800 civilians, including 927 children, the highest number of civilian deaths recorded in the past ten years.
The intensified violence injured nearly 7,200 civilians and the overall civilian casualties rose by five percent in 2018, according to a new report released Sunday by the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA).
It blamed a spike in suicide attacks by Islamic State’s local affiliate, known as Khorasan Province (ISKP), and increased harm to civilians from aerial as well as search operations by pro-government forces for the significant rise in civilian casualties.
Children’s deaths shocking
“The fact that the number of children killed this year is the highest on record, is particularly shocking,” the report quoted U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet as lamenting.
The UNAMA attributed the majority of civilian casualties – 63 percent – to anti-government forces: 37 per cent to the Taliban, 20 per cent to ISKP and 6 per cent to undetermined militants. The rest of the civilian casualties were blamed on Afghan security forces and their U.S.-led foreign partners.
“This is the U.N.’s tenth annual report documenting the plight of civilians in the Afghan conflict more than 32,000 civilians killed and around 60,000 injured in a decade,” said UNAMA’s chief Tadamichi Yamamoto.
He reiterated his call for halting the fighting to put an end to the human misery and tragedy in Afghanistan.
“That is why there is all the more need now to use all our efforts to bring about peace. I urge all parties to seize every opportunity to do so,” said Yamamoto.
Peace talks continue
​For the first time in a decade, UNAMA recorded more than 1,000 civilian casualties, including 536 deaths, from aerial operations and blamed U.S.-led international military forces for causing nearly 60 percent of them.
Official data shows the U.S. military dropped 7,362 bombs and munitions in Afghanistan in 2018, the highest in a single year in at least a decade.
The ramped up airstrikes have been part of the Trump administration’s strategy to try to pressure the Taliban to the negotiating table, though the campaign could not break the battlefield stalemate and insurgents continued to make territorial gains.
Taliban’s response
The Taliban swiftly declared the UNAMA report as “tendentious” and propaganda material, saying it did not offer “any proof or justification” for attributing 37 percent civilian casualties to the insurgent group.
“The entire Afghan nation is a witness that the American invaders, by their own admission, have dropped over 7000 bombs against the Afghans over the course of last year,” a Taliban statement noted. It accused both U.S. and Afghan forces for causing “eighty percent” of all civilian casualties, saying insurgent fighters take utmost care when dealing with civilian lives.
The report on civilian casualties comes a day before the United States is due to resume peace negotiations with the Taliban in Qatar to promote a political settlement to the conflict in Afghanistan. There have been several meetings between the two sides since last fall and both reported “significant progress” toward ending the war after their interaction a month ago in the Qatari capital of Doha.
Credit : Voice of America (VOA)
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.AcceptRead More

Title:  Afghanistan- Civilian Deaths from Afghan Conflict in 2018 at Highest Recorded Level
ForgotUsernameorPassword

Date
(MENAFN- Daily Outlook Afghanistan) KABUL - More civilians were killed in the Afghan conflict last year than at any time since records have been kept, according to a United Nations report released today by the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) and the UN Human Rights Office. The report documented 3,804 civilian deaths in 2018. Among the dead were 927 children, the highest recorded number of boys and girls killed in the conflict during a single year.In total, UNAMA documented 10,993 civilian casualties (3,804 deaths and 7,189 injured), representing a five per cent increase in overall civilian casualties and an 11 per cent increase in civilian deaths compared to 2017.UNAMA attributed the majority of civilian casualties –63 per cent– to Anti-Government Elements (AGEs), 37 per cent to Taliban, 20 per cent to Daesh/Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), and 6 per cent to undetermined AGEs. Pro-Government Forces caused 24 per cent of civilian casualties --14 per cent by Afghan national security forces, six per cent by international military forces, as well as four per cent by other pro-Government armed groups and forces.Key factors contributing to the significant increase in civilian casualties were a spike in suicide attacks by AGEs, mainly Daesh/ISKP, as well as increased harm to civilians from aerial and search operations by Pro-Government Forces. 2018 witnessed the highest number of civilian casualties ever recorded from suicide attacks and aerial operations.'The report's rigorously researched findings show that the level of harm and suffering inflicted on civilians in Afghanistan is deeply disturbing and wholly unacceptable, said Tadamichi Yamamoto, the Secretary-General's Special Representative for Afghanistan. 'All parties need to take immediate and additional concrete steps to stop a further escalation in the number of civilians harmed and lives destroyed.Yamamoto, who also heads UNAMA added, 'This is the UN's tenth annual report documenting the plight of civilians in the Afghan conflict –more than 32,000 civilians killed and around 60,000 injured in a decade. It is time to put an end to this human misery and tragedy. The best way to halt the killings and maiming of civilians is to stop the fighting. That is why there is all the more need now to use all our efforts to bring about peace. I urge all parties to seize every opportunity to do so.'The conflict in Afghanistan continues to kill far too many civilians and has caused long-lasting suffering, both physical and psychological, to countless others, said UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet. 'The fact that the number of children killed this year is the highest on record, is particularly shocking. In addition to the lives lost, the dire security situation is preventing many Afghans from enjoying their economic, social and cultural rights, with thousands of children already handicapped for life because of attacks on schools and medical facilities, Bachelet added. 'So I call on all parties to the conflict to fully respect international humanitarian and international human rights law to protect the lives of all civilians.Anti-Government Elements were responsible for 6,980 civilian casualties (2,243 deaths and 4,737 injured), a three per cent increase on 2017, which mainly resulted from the indiscriminate use of suicide improvised explosive devices (IEDs) and the deliberate targeting of civilians with these devices. Taliban caused 4,072 civilian casualties (1,348 deaths and 2,724 injured), seven per cent down on 2017, while Daesh/ISKP caused 2,181 civilian casualties (681 deaths and 1,500 injured), an increase of 118 per cent. UNAMA attributed a further 678 civilian casualties (196 deaths and 482 injured) to undetermined AGEs.Anti-Government Elements' use of IEDs in both suicide and non-suicide attacks reached extreme levels and remained the leading cause of civilian casualties in 2018, accounting for 42 per cent of the total. Suicide IED attacks caused 2,809 civilian casualties (886 deaths and 1,923 injured), almost 26 per cent of all civilian casualties, while non-suicide IEDs caused more than 16 per cent, resulting in a combined total of 4,627 civilian casualties (1,361 deaths and 3,266 injured).UNAMA notes continued concern with the Taliban's use of indirect weapons systems and IEDs, particularly targeting civilians and civilian objects during election-related attacks, as well as using the weapons against Pro-Government Forces in civilian areas, which has indiscriminate effects. The increase in deliberate targeting of civilians by Taliban, which nearly doubled from 865 civilian casualties in 2017 to 1,688 in 2018, resulted largely from the 27 January suicide ambulance attack in Kabul (the deadliest single incident ever recorded by UNAMA) and from election-related attacks on the 20 October polling day, when UNAMA recorded the highest number of civilian casualties in any single day in 2018. Civilian casualties resulting from deliberate targeting of civilians by Daesh/ISKP, which included attacks against the Shi'a Muslim population, more than doubled.Anti-Government Elements carried out 65 suicide and complex attacks in 2018. UNAMA attributed 21 of the attacks to Taliban, which caused 642 civilian casualties. Taliban claimed responsibility for 15 of these attacks, from which UNAMA verified 542 civilian casualties. UNAMA attributed 36 suicide and complex attacks to Daesh/ISKP, causing 1,892 civilian casualties. The group claimed responsibility for 33 of these incidents, which caused 1,631 civilian casualties. Seven incidents claimed by Daesh/ISKP caused more than 100 civilian casualties as compared to three in 2017.UNAMA documented disproportionate and extreme harm to Kabul residents from suicide and complex attacks. Almost half of the AGE suicide and complex attacks in 2018 occurred in Kabul, with 28 such incidents causing 1,686 civilian casualties (481 deaths and 1,150 injuries), a five per cent increase in the number of casualties from 2017.UNAMA documented a 24 per cent increase in civilian casualties attributed to Pro-Government Forces in 2018 as compared to 2017, which mainly resulted from aerial operations by international military forces, as well as from search operations conducted by Afghan national security forces and pro-Government armed groups. Between 1 January and 31 December 2018, UNAMA documented 2,612 civilian casualties (1,185 deaths and 1,427 injured) from operations conducted by Pro-Government Forces. Civilian casualties attributed to Pro-Government Forces accounted for 24 per cent of all civilian casualties in Afghanistan in 2018.For the first time since 2009 when it began systematically documenting civilian casualty figures, UNAMA recorded more than 1,000 civilian casualties from aerial operations. 2018 also witnessed more than 500 civilians killed by aerial operations for the first time on record. UNAMA documented 1,015 civilian casualties (536 deaths and 479 injured) from aerial operations. Of these, UNAMA attributed responsibility to international military forces for 632 civilian casualties (393 deaths and 239 injured), to the Afghan Air Force for 304 civilian casualties (118 deaths and 186 injured) and the remaining casualties to unidentified pro-Government forces.Search operations caused 353 civilian casualties (284 deaths and 69 injured) with the majority caused by National Directorate of Security Special Forces and the Khost Protection Force, both of whom are supported by international military forces.In 2018, approximately the same number of civilians were killed from airstrikes as in 2014, 2015 and 2016 combined. Women and children continued to comprise almost two-thirds of all civilian casualties from aerial operations, amounting to 648 civilian causalities (320 deaths and 328 injured).In 2018, international military forces were responsible for 674 civilian casualties (406 deaths and 268 injured), 94 per cent of which resulted from aerial operations.Aerial operations and ground engagements caused the same number of civilian casualties, tied as the two leading causes of civilian casualties attributed to Pro-Government Forces in 2018.The armed conflict continues to have a severe impact on children and women, who made up 38 per cent of all civilian casualties. Child casualties represented 28 percent of all killed and injured. UNAMA recorded 3,062 child casualties (927 deaths and 2,135 injured). While this was a slight decrease compared to 2017, child deaths reached record high levels in 2018, mainly due to the more than doubling of child deaths from aerial operations, as well as an increase in child deaths from suicide attacks.Anti-Government Elements caused 1,343 child casualties (324 deaths and 1,019 injured), comprising 44 per cent of all child casualties in 2018. Pro-Government Forces caused 1,051 child casualties (414 deaths and 637 injured), comprising 34 per cent of overall child casualties.Overall child casualty figures showed AGEs continued to cause most child casualties in 2018, although it decreased by three per cent compared to 2017, while there was a 15 per cent increase in child casualties attributed to Pro-Government Forces. UNAMA documented that Pro-Government Forces were responsible for the deaths of 414 children in 2018, while Anti-Government Elements were responsible for the deaths of 324 children in 2018.Women casualties reduced by six per cent to 1,152 (350 deaths and 802 injured), resulting mainly from the eight per cent decrease in women casualties from ground engagements. Women comprised 10 per cent of conflict-related civilian casualties in 2018.In the report, UNAMA acknowledges the efforts taken by the Afghan national security forces, international military forces, and Taliban to protect civilians from harm caused. However, given the scale and scope of civilian casualties that has continued at very high levels for years, it emphasizes that more needs to be done.Among its recommendations, the report urges Anti-Government Elements to cease the deliberate targeting of civilians and civilian objects, as well as the indiscriminate and disproportionate use of all IEDs. It calls on the Government of Afghanistan and international military forces to strengthen their review of incidents involving allegations of civilian casualties and ensure that effective reparations are provided for harm suffered. Beyond this, a halt in the fighting by all parties is the only effective way to protect civilians. (PR)MENAFN2502201901750000ID1098167182
MENAFN2502201901750000ID1098167182
MENAFN2502201901750000ID1098167182
MENAFN2502201901750000ID1098167182
Legal Disclaimer:MENAFNprovides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.

Tags
Comments
Category
Date
Daily(English)Daily(Arabic)All()

World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data.
Contact UsClick here
Copyright © 2000MENAFN.All rights reserved.
Design & Devleopment byMENAFN

Title: UN: Afghan Civilian Deaths Rise to New High in 2018
By Ayaz Gul February 24, 2019
The United Nations says the armed conflict in Afghanistan last year killed more than 3,800 civilians, including 927 children, the highest number of civilian deaths recorded in the past ten years.
The intensified violence injured nearly 7,200 civilians and the overall civilian casualties rose by five percent in 2018, according to a new report released Sunday by the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA).
It blamed a spike in suicide attacks by Islamic State's local affiliate, known as Khorasan Province (ISKP), and increased harm to civilians from aerial as well as search operations by pro-government forces for the significant rise in civilian casualties.
Children's deaths shocking
"The fact that the number of children killed this year is the highest on record, is particularly shocking," the report quoted U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet as lamenting.
The UNAMA attributed the majority of civilian casualties - 63 percent - to anti-government forces: 37 per cent to the Taliban, 20 per cent to ISKP and 6 per cent to undetermined militants. The rest of the civilian casualties were blamed on Afghan security forces and their U.S.-led foreign partners.
"This is the U.N.'s tenth annual report documenting the plight of civilians in the Afghan conflict more than 32,000 civilians killed and around 60,000 injured in a decade," said UNAMA's chief Tadamichi Yamamoto.
He reiterated his call for halting the fighting to put an end to the human misery and tragedy in Afghanistan.
"That is why there is all the more need now to use all our efforts to bring about peace. I urge all parties to seize every opportunity to do so," said Yamamoto.
Peace talks continue
​For the first time in a decade, UNAMA recorded more than 1,000 civilian casualties, including 536 deaths, from aerial operations and blamed U.S.-led international military forces for causing nearly 60 percent of them.
Official data shows the U.S. military dropped 7,362 bombs and munitions in Afghanistan in 2018, the highest in a single year in at least a decade.
The ramped up airstrikes have been part of the Trump administration's strategy to try to pressure the Taliban to the negotiating table, though the campaign could not break the battlefield stalemate and insurgents continued to make territorial gains.
Taliban's response
The Taliban swiftly declared the UNAMA report as "tendentious" and propaganda material, saying it did not offer "any proof or justification" for attributing 37 percent civilian casualties to the insurgent group.
"The entire Afghan nation is a witness that the American invaders, by their own admission, have dropped over 7000 bombs against the Afghans over the course of last year," a Taliban statement noted. It accused both U.S. and Afghan forces for causing "eighty percent" of all civilian casualties, saying insurgent fighters take utmost care when dealing with civilian lives.
The report on civilian casualties comes a day before the United States is due to resume peace negotiations with the Taliban in Qatar to promote a political settlement to the conflict in Afghanistan. There have been several meetings between the two sides since last fall and both reported "significant progress" toward ending the war after their interaction a month ago in the Qatari capital of Doha.



Title:  Afghanistan- 'Civilian deaths hit highest record in 2018'
ForgotUsernameorPassword

Date
(MENAFN- Afghanistan Times) AT News ReportKABUL: The United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan
(UNAMA) on Sunday released report over Afghan conflict, in which civilian
deaths hit highest record in 2018.According to report more civilians were killed in the Afghan
conflict last year than at any time since records have been kept, according to
a United Nations report released today by the UN Assistance Mission in
Afghanistan (UNAMA) and the UN Human Rights Office. The report documented 3,804
civilian deaths in 2018. Among the dead were 927 children, the highest recorded
number of boys and girls killed in the conflict during a single year.In total, UNAMA documented 10,993 civilian casualties (3,804
deaths and 7,189 injured), representing a five per cent increase in overall
civilian casualties and an 11 per cent increase in civilian deaths compared to
2017.UNAMA attributed the majority of civilian casualties –63 per
cent– to Anti-Government Elements (AGEs), 37 per cent to Taliban, 20 per cent
toDaesh/Islamic State Khorosan Province (ISKP), and 6 per cent to
undetermined AGEs. Pro-Government Forces caused 24 per cent of civilian
casualties -14 per cent by Afghan national security forces, six per cent by
international military forces, as well as four per cent by other pro-Government
armed groups and forces.Key factors contributing to the significant increase in
civilian casualties were a spike in suicide attacks by AGEs,
mainlyDaesh/ISKP, as well as increased harm to civilians from aerial and
search operations by Pro-Government Forces. 2018 witnessed the highest number
of civilian casualties ever recorded from suicide attacks and aerial
operations.'The report's rigorously researched findings show that the
level of harm and suffering inflicted on civilians in Afghanistan is deeply
disturbing and wholly unacceptable,' said Tadamichi Yamamoto, the
Secretary-General's Special Representative for Afghanistan. 'All parties need
to take immediate and additional concrete steps to stop a further escalation in
the number of civilians harmed and lives destroyed.'Yamamoto, who also heads UNAMA added, 'This is the UN's
tenth annual report documenting the plight of civilians in the Afghan conflict
–more than 32,000 civilians killed and around 60,000 injured in a decade. It is
time to put an end to this human misery and tragedy. The best way to halt the
killings and maiming of civilians is to stop the fighting. That is why there is
all the more need now touse all our efforts to bring about peace.I
urge all parties to seize every opportunity to do so.''The conflict in Afghanistan continues to kill far too many
civilians and has caused long-lasting suffering, both physical and
psychological, to countless others,' said UN High Commissioner for Human Rights
Michelle Bachelet. 'The fact that the number of children killed this year is
the highest on record, is particularly shocking. In addition to the lives lost,
the dire security situation is preventing many Afghans from enjoying their
economic, social and cultural rights, with thousands of children already
handicapped for life because of attacks on schools and medical facilities,'
Bachelet added. 'So I call on all parties to the conflict to fully respect
international humanitarian and international human rights law to protect the
lives of all civilians.'Anti-Government Elements were responsible for 6,980 civilian
casualties (2,243 deaths and 4,737 injured), a three per cent increase on 2017,
which mainly resulted from the indiscriminate use of suicide improvised
explosive devices (IEDs) and the deliberate targeting of civilians with these
devices. Taliban caused 4,072 civilian casualties (1,348 deaths and 2,724
injured), seven per cent down on 2017, whileDaesh/ISKP caused 2,181
civilian casualties (681 deaths and 1,500 injured), an increase of 118 per
cent. UNAMA attributed a further 678 civilian casualties (196 deaths and 482
injured) to undetermined AGEs.Anti-Government Elements' use of IEDs in both suicide and
non-suicide attacks reached extreme levels and remained the leading cause of
civilian casualties in 2018, accounting for 42 per cent of the total. Suicide
IED attacks caused 2,809 civilian casualties (886 deaths and 1,923 injured),
almost 26 per cent of all civilian casualties, while non-suicide IEDs caused
more than 16 per cent, resulting in a combined total of 4,627 civilian
casualties (1,361 deaths and 3,266 injured).UNAMA notes continued concern with the Taliban's use of
indirect weapons systems and IEDs, particularly targeting civilians and
civilian objects during election-related attacks, as well as using the weapons
against Pro-Government Forces in civilian areas, which has indiscriminate
effects. The increase in deliberate targeting of civilians by Taliban, which
nearly doubled from 865 civilian casualties in 2017 to 1,688 in 2018, resulted
largely from the 27 January suicide ambulance attack in Kabul (the deadliest
single incident ever recorded by UNAMA) and from election-related attacks on
the 20 October polling day, when UNAMA recorded the highest number of civilian
casualties in any single day in 2018. Civilian casualties resulting from
deliberate targeting of civilians byDaesh/ISKP, which included attacks
against the Shi'a Muslim population, more than doubled.Anti-Government Elements carried out 65 suicide and complex
attacks in 2018. UNAMA attributed 21 of the attacks to Taliban, which caused
642 civilian casualties. Taliban claimed responsibility for 15 of these
attacks, from which UNAMA verified 542 civilian casualties. UNAMA attributed 36
suicide and complex attacks toDaesh/ISKP, causing 1,892 civilian
casualties. The group claimed responsibility for 33 of these incidents, which
caused 1,631 civilian casualties. Seven incidents claimed byDaesh/ISKP
caused more than 100 civilian casualties as compared to three in 2017.UNAMA documented disproportionate and extreme harm to Kabul
residents from suicide and complex attacks. Almost half of the AGE suicide and
complex attacks in 2018 occurred in Kabul, with 28 such incidents causing 1,686
civilian casualties (481 deaths and 1,150 injuries), a five per cent increase
in the number of casualties from 2017.UNAMA documented a 24 per cent increase in civilian
casualties attributed to Pro-Government Forces in 2018 as compared to 2017,
which mainly resulted from aerial operations by international military forces,
as well as from search operations conducted by Afghan national security forces
and pro-Government armed groups. Between 1 January and 31 December 2018, UNAMA
documented 2,612 civilian casualties (1,185 deaths and 1,427 injured) from
operations conducted by Pro-Government Forces. Civilian casualties attributed
to Pro-Government Forces accounted for 24 per cent of all civilian casualties
in Afghanistan in 2018.For the first time since 2009 when it began systematically
documenting civilian casualty figures, UNAMA recorded more than 1,000 civilian
casualties from aerial operations. 2018 also witnessed more than 500 civilians
killed by aerial operations for the first time on record. UNAMA documented
1,015 civilian casualties (536 deaths and 479 injured) from aerial operations.
Of these, UNAMA attributed responsibility to international military forces for
632 civilian casualties (393 deaths and 239 injured), to the Afghan Air Force
for 304 civilian casualties (118 deaths and 186 injured) and the remaining
casualties to unidentified pro-Government forces.Search operations caused 353 civilian casualties (284 deaths
and 69 injured) with the majority caused by National Directorate of Security
Special Forces and the Khost Protection Force, both of whom are supported by
international military forces.In 2018, approximately the same number of civilians were
killed from airstrikes as in 2014, 2015 and 2016 combined. Women and children
continued to comprise almost two-thirds of all civilian casualties from aerial
operations, amounting to 648 civilian causalities (320 deaths and 328 injured).In 2018, international military forces were responsible for
674 civilian casualties (406 deaths and 268 injured), 94 per cent of which
resulted from aerial operations.Aerial operations and ground engagements caused the same
number of civilian casualties, tied as the two leading causes of civilian
casualties attributed to Pro-Government Forces in 2018.The armed conflict continues to have a severe impact on
children and women, who made up 38 per cent of all civilian casualties. Child
casualties represented 28 percent of all killed and injured. UNAMA recorded
3,062 child casualties (927 deaths and 2,135 injured). While this was a slight
decrease compared to 2017, child deaths reached record high levels in 2018,
mainly due to the more than doubling of child deaths from aerial operations, as
well as an increase in child deaths from suicide attacks.Anti-Government Elements caused 1,343 child casualties (324
deaths and 1,019 injured), comprising 44 per cent of all child casualties in
2018. Pro-Government Forces caused 1,051 child casualties (414 deaths and 637
injured), comprising 34 per cent of overall child casualties.Overall child casualty figures showed AGEs continued to
cause most child casualties in 2018, although it decreased by three per cent
compared to 2017, while there was a 15 per cent increase in child casualties
attributed to Pro-Government Forces. UNAMA documented that Pro-Government
Forces were responsible for the deaths of 414 children in 2018, while
Anti-Government Elements were responsible for the deaths of 324 children in
2018.Women casualties reduced by six per cent to 1,152 (350
deaths and 802 injured), resulting mainly from the eight per cent decrease in
women casualties from ground engagements. Women comprised 10 per cent of
conflict-related civilian casualties in 2018.In the report, UNAMA acknowledges the efforts taken by the
Afghan national security forces, international military forces, and Taliban to
protect civilians from harm caused. However, given the scale and scope of
civilian casualties that has continued at very high levels for years, it
emphasizes that more needs to be done.Among its recommendations, the report urges Anti-Government
Elements to cease the deliberate targeting of civilians and civilian objects,
as well as the indiscriminate and disproportionate use of all IEDs. It calls on
the Government of Afghanistan and international military forces to strengthen
their review of incidents involving allegations of civilian casualties and
ensure that effective reparations are provided for harm suffered. Beyond this,
a halt in the fighting by all parties is the only effective way to protect civilians.MENAFN2502201901690000ID1098167718
KABUL: The United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan
(UNAMA) on Sunday released report over Afghan conflict, in which civilian
deaths hit highest record in 2018.According to report more civilians were killed in the Afghan
conflict last year than at any time since records have been kept, according to
a United Nations report released today by the UN Assistance Mission in
Afghanistan (UNAMA) and the UN Human Rights Office. The report documented 3,804
civilian deaths in 2018. Among the dead were 927 children, the highest recorded
number of boys and girls killed in the conflict during a single year.In total, UNAMA documented 10,993 civilian casualties (3,804
deaths and 7,189 injured), representing a five per cent increase in overall
civilian casualties and an 11 per cent increase in civilian deaths compared to
2017.UNAMA attributed the majority of civilian casualties –63 per
cent– to Anti-Government Elements (AGEs), 37 per cent to Taliban, 20 per cent
toDaesh/Islamic State Khorosan Province (ISKP), and 6 per cent to
undetermined AGEs. Pro-Government Forces caused 24 per cent of civilian
casualties -14 per cent by Afghan national security forces, six per cent by
international military forces, as well as four per cent by other pro-Government
armed groups and forces.Key factors contributing to the significant increase in
civilian casualties were a spike in suicide attacks by AGEs,
mainlyDaesh/ISKP, as well as increased harm to civilians from aerial and
search operations by Pro-Government Forces. 2018 witnessed the highest number
of civilian casualties ever recorded from suicide attacks and aerial
operations.'The report's rigorously researched findings show that the
level of harm and suffering inflicted on civilians in Afghanistan is deeply
disturbing and wholly unacceptable,' said Tadamichi Yamamoto, the
Secretary-General's Special Representative for Afghanistan. 'All parties need
to take immediate and additional concrete steps to stop a further escalation in
the number of civilians harmed and lives destroyed.'Yamamoto, who also heads UNAMA added, 'This is the UN's
tenth annual report documenting the plight of civilians in the Afghan conflict
–more than 32,000 civilians killed and around 60,000 injured in a decade. It is
time to put an end to this human misery and tragedy. The best way to halt the
killings and maiming of civilians is to stop the fighting. That is why there is
all the more need now touse all our efforts to bring about peace.I
urge all parties to seize every opportunity to do so.''The conflict in Afghanistan continues to kill far too many
civilians and has caused long-lasting suffering, both physical and
psychological, to countless others,' said UN High Commissioner for Human Rights
Michelle Bachelet. 'The fact that the number of children killed this year is
the highest on record, is particularly shocking. In addition to the lives lost,
the dire security situation is preventing many Afghans from enjoying their
economic, social and cultural rights, with thousands of children already
handicapped for life because of attacks on schools and medical facilities,'
Bachelet added. 'So I call on all parties to the conflict to fully respect
international humanitarian and international human rights law to protect the
lives of all civilians.'Anti-Government Elements were responsible for 6,980 civilian
casualties (2,243 deaths and 4,737 injured), a three per cent increase on 2017,
which mainly resulted from the indiscriminate use of suicide improvised
explosive devices (IEDs) and the deliberate targeting of civilians with these
devices. Taliban caused 4,072 civilian casualties (1,348 deaths and 2,724
injured), seven per cent down on 2017, whileDaesh/ISKP caused 2,181
civilian casualties (681 deaths and 1,500 injured), an increase of 118 per
cent. UNAMA attributed a further 678 civilian casualties (196 deaths and 482
injured) to undetermined AGEs.Anti-Government Elements' use of IEDs in both suicide and
non-suicide attacks reached extreme levels and remained the leading cause of
civilian casualties in 2018, accounting for 42 per cent of the total. Suicide
IED attacks caused 2,809 civilian casualties (886 deaths and 1,923 injured),
almost 26 per cent of all civilian casualties, while non-suicide IEDs caused
more than 16 per cent, resulting in a combined total of 4,627 civilian
casualties (1,361 deaths and 3,266 injured).UNAMA notes continued concern with the Taliban's use of
indirect weapons systems and IEDs, particularly targeting civilians and
civilian objects during election-related attacks, as well as using the weapons
against Pro-Government Forces in civilian areas, which has indiscriminate
effects. The increase in deliberate targeting of civilians by Taliban, which
nearly doubled from 865 civilian casualties in 2017 to 1,688 in 2018, resulted
largely from the 27 January suicide ambulance attack in Kabul (the deadliest
single incident ever recorded by UNAMA) and from election-related attacks on
the 20 October polling day, when UNAMA recorded the highest number of civilian
casualties in any single day in 2018. Civilian casualties resulting from
deliberate targeting of civilians byDaesh/ISKP, which included attacks
against the Shi'a Muslim population, more than doubled.Anti-Government Elements carried out 65 suicide and complex
attacks in 2018. UNAMA attributed 21 of the attacks to Taliban, which caused
642 civilian casualties. Taliban claimed responsibility for 15 of these
attacks, from which UNAMA verified 542 civilian casualties. UNAMA attributed 36
suicide and complex attacks toDaesh/ISKP, causing 1,892 civilian
casualties. The group claimed responsibility for 33 of these incidents, which
caused 1,631 civilian casualties. Seven incidents claimed byDaesh/ISKP
caused more than 100 civilian casualties as compared to three in 2017.UNAMA documented disproportionate and extreme harm to Kabul
residents from suicide and complex attacks. Almost half of the AGE suicide and
complex attacks in 2018 occurred in Kabul, with 28 such incidents causing 1,686
civilian casualties (481 deaths and 1,150 injuries), a five per cent increase
in the number of casualties from 2017.UNAMA documented a 24 per cent increase in civilian
casualties attributed to Pro-Government Forces in 2018 as compared to 2017,
which mainly resulted from aerial operations by international military forces,
as well as from search operations conducted by Afghan national security forces
and pro-Government armed groups. Between 1 January and 31 December 2018, UNAMA
documented 2,612 civilian casualties (1,185 deaths and 1,427 injured) from
operations conducted by Pro-Government Forces. Civilian casualties attributed
to Pro-Government Forces accounted for 24 per cent of all civilian casualties
in Afghanistan in 2018.For the first time since 2009 when it began systematically
documenting civilian casualty figures, UNAMA recorded more than 1,000 civilian
casualties from aerial operations. 2018 also witnessed more than 500 civilians
killed by aerial operations for the first time on record. UNAMA documented
1,015 civilian casualties (536 deaths and 479 injured) from aerial operations.
Of these, UNAMA attributed responsibility to international military forces for
632 civilian casualties (393 deaths and 239 injured), to the Afghan Air Force
for 304 civilian casualties (118 deaths and 186 injured) and the remaining
casualties to unidentified pro-Government forces.Search operations caused 353 civilian casualties (284 deaths
and 69 injured) with the majority caused by National Directorate of Security
Special Forces and the Khost Protection Force, both of whom are supported by
international military forces.In 2018, approximately the same number of civilians were
killed from airstrikes as in 2014, 2015 and 2016 combined. Women and children
continued to comprise almost two-thirds of all civilian casualties from aerial
operations, amounting to 648 civilian causalities (320 deaths and 328 injured).In 2018, international military forces were responsible for
674 civilian casualties (406 deaths and 268 injured), 94 per cent of which
resulted from aerial operations.Aerial operations and ground engagements caused the same
number of civilian casualties, tied as the two leading causes of civilian
casualties attributed to Pro-Government Forces in 2018.The armed conflict continues to have a severe impact on
children and women, who made up 38 per cent of all civilian casualties. Child
casualties represented 28 percent of all killed and injured. UNAMA recorded
3,062 child casualties (927 deaths and 2,135 injured). While this was a slight
decrease compared to 2017, child deaths reached record high levels in 2018,
mainly due to the more than doubling of child deaths from aerial operations, as
well as an increase in child deaths from suicide attacks.Anti-Government Elements caused 1,343 child casualties (324
deaths and 1,019 injured), comprising 44 per cent of all child casualties in
2018. Pro-Government Forces caused 1,051 child casualties (414 deaths and 637
injured), comprising 34 per cent of overall child casualties.Overall child casualty figures showed AGEs continued to
cause most child casualties in 2018, although it decreased by three per cent
compared to 2017, while there was a 15 per cent increase in child casualties
attributed to Pro-Government Forces. UNAMA documented that Pro-Government
Forces were responsible for the deaths of 414 children in 2018, while
Anti-Government Elements were responsible for the deaths of 324 children in
2018.Women casualties reduced by six per cent to 1,152 (350
deaths and 802 injured), resulting mainly from the eight per cent decrease in
women casualties from ground engagements. Women comprised 10 per cent of
conflict-related civilian casualties in 2018.In the report, UNAMA acknowledges the efforts taken by the
Afghan national security forces, international military forces, and Taliban to
protect civilians from harm caused. However, given the scale and scope of
civilian casualties that has continued at very high levels for years, it
emphasizes that more needs to be done.Among its recommendations, the report urges Anti-Government
Elements to cease the deliberate targeting of civilians and civilian objects,
as well as the indiscriminate and disproportionate use of all IEDs. It calls on
the Government of Afghanistan and international military forces to strengthen
their review of incidents involving allegations of civilian casualties and
ensure that effective reparations are provided for harm suffered. Beyond this,
a halt in the fighting by all parties is the only effective way to protect civilians.MENAFN2502201901690000ID1098167718
KABUL: The United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan
(UNAMA) on Sunday released report over Afghan conflict, in which civilian
deaths hit highest record in 2018.
According to report more civilians were killed in the Afghan
conflict last year than at any time since records have been kept, according to
a United Nations report released today by the UN Assistance Mission in
Afghanistan (UNAMA) and the UN Human Rights Office. The report documented 3,804
civilian deaths in 2018. Among the dead were 927 children, the highest recorded
number of boys and girls killed in the conflict during a single year.
In total, UNAMA documented 10,993 civilian casualties (3,804
deaths and 7,189 injured), representing a five per cent increase in overall
civilian casualties and an 11 per cent increase in civilian deaths compared to
2017.
UNAMA attributed the majority of civilian casualties –63 per
cent– to Anti-Government Elements (AGEs), 37 per cent to Taliban, 20 per cent
toDaesh/Islamic State Khorosan Province (ISKP), and 6 per cent to
undetermined AGEs. Pro-Government Forces caused 24 per cent of civilian
casualties -14 per cent by Afghan national security forces, six per cent by
international military forces, as well as four per cent by other pro-Government
armed groups and forces.
Key factors contributing to the significant increase in
civilian casualties were a spike in suicide attacks by AGEs,
mainlyDaesh/ISKP, as well as increased harm to civilians from aerial and
search operations by Pro-Government Forces. 2018 witnessed the highest number
of civilian casualties ever recorded from suicide attacks and aerial
operations.
'The report's rigorously researched findings show that the
level of harm and suffering inflicted on civilians in Afghanistan is deeply
disturbing and wholly unacceptable,' said Tadamichi Yamamoto, the
Secretary-General's Special Representative for Afghanistan. 'All parties need
to take immediate and additional concrete steps to stop a further escalation in
the number of civilians harmed and lives destroyed.'
Yamamoto, who also heads UNAMA added, 'This is the UN's
tenth annual report documenting the plight of civilians in the Afghan conflict
–more than 32,000 civilians killed and around 60,000 injured in a decade. It is
time to put an end to this human misery and tragedy. The best way to halt the
killings and maiming of civilians is to stop the fighting. That is why there is
all the more need now touse all our efforts to bring about peace.I
urge all parties to seize every opportunity to do so.'
'The conflict in Afghanistan continues to kill far too many
civilians and has caused long-lasting suffering, both physical and
psychological, to countless others,' said UN High Commissioner for Human Rights
Michelle Bachelet. 'The fact that the number of children killed this year is
the highest on record, is particularly shocking. In addition to the lives lost,
the dire security situation is preventing many Afghans from enjoying their
economic, social and cultural rights, with thousands of children already
handicapped for life because of attacks on schools and medical facilities,'
Bachelet added. 'So I call on all parties to the conflict to fully respect
international humanitarian and international human rights law to protect the
lives of all civilians.'
Anti-Government Elements were responsible for 6,980 civilian
casualties (2,243 deaths and 4,737 injured), a three per cent increase on 2017,
which mainly resulted from the indiscriminate use of suicide improvised
explosive devices (IEDs) and the deliberate targeting of civilians with these
devices. Taliban caused 4,072 civilian casualties (1,348 deaths and 2,724
injured), seven per cent down on 2017, whileDaesh/ISKP caused 2,181
civilian casualties (681 deaths and 1,500 injured), an increase of 118 per
cent. UNAMA attributed a further 678 civilian casualties (196 deaths and 482
injured) to undetermined AGEs.
Anti-Government Elements' use of IEDs in both suicide and
non-suicide attacks reached extreme levels and remained the leading cause of
civilian casualties in 2018, accounting for 42 per cent of the total. Suicide
IED attacks caused 2,809 civilian casualties (886 deaths and 1,923 injured),
almost 26 per cent of all civilian casualties, while non-suicide IEDs caused
more than 16 per cent, resulting in a combined total of 4,627 civilian
casualties (1,361 deaths and 3,266 injured).
UNAMA notes continued concern with the Taliban's use of
indirect weapons systems and IEDs, particularly targeting civilians and
civilian objects during election-related attacks, as well as using the weapons
against Pro-Government Forces in civilian areas, which has indiscriminate
effects. The increase in deliberate targeting of civilians by Taliban, which
nearly doubled from 865 civilian casualties in 2017 to 1,688 in 2018, resulted
largely from the 27 January suicide ambulance attack in Kabul (the deadliest
single incident ever recorded by UNAMA) and from election-related attacks on
the 20 October polling day, when UNAMA recorded the highest number of civilian
casualties in any single day in 2018. Civilian casualties resulting from
deliberate targeting of civilians byDaesh/ISKP, which included attacks
against the Shi'a Muslim population, more than doubled.
Anti-Government Elements carried out 65 suicide and complex
attacks in 2018. UNAMA attributed 21 of the attacks to Taliban, which caused
642 civilian casualties. Taliban claimed responsibility for 15 of these
attacks, from which UNAMA verified 542 civilian casualties. UNAMA attributed 36
suicide and complex attacks toDaesh/ISKP, causing 1,892 civilian
casualties. The group claimed responsibility for 33 of these incidents, which
caused 1,631 civilian casualties. Seven incidents claimed byDaesh/ISKP
caused more than 100 civilian casualties as compared to three in 2017.
UNAMA documented disproportionate and extreme harm to Kabul
residents from suicide and complex attacks. Almost half of the AGE suicide and
complex attacks in 2018 occurred in Kabul, with 28 such incidents causing 1,686
civilian casualties (481 deaths and 1,150 injuries), a five per cent increase
in the number of casualties from 2017.
UNAMA documented a 24 per cent increase in civilian
casualties attributed to Pro-Government Forces in 2018 as compared to 2017,
which mainly resulted from aerial operations by international military forces,
as well as from search operations conducted by Afghan national security forces
and pro-Government armed groups. Between 1 January and 31 December 2018, UNAMA
documented 2,612 civilian casualties (1,185 deaths and 1,427 injured) from
operations conducted by Pro-Government Forces. Civilian casualties attributed
to Pro-Government Forces accounted for 24 per cent of all civilian casualties
in Afghanistan in 2018.
For the first time since 2009 when it began systematically
documenting civilian casualty figures, UNAMA recorded more than 1,000 civilian
casualties from aerial operations. 2018 also witnessed more than 500 civilians
killed by aerial operations for the first time on record. UNAMA documented
1,015 civilian casualties (536 deaths and 479 injured) from aerial operations.
Of these, UNAMA attributed responsibility to international military forces for
632 civilian casualties (393 deaths and 239 injured), to the Afghan Air Force
for 304 civilian casualties (118 deaths and 186 injured) and the remaining
casualties to unidentified pro-Government forces.
Search operations caused 353 civilian casualties (284 deaths
and 69 injured) with the majority caused by National Directorate of Security
Special Forces and the Khost Protection Force, both of whom are supported by
international military forces.
In 2018, approximately the same number of civilians were
killed from airstrikes as in 2014, 2015 and 2016 combined. Women and children
continued to comprise almost two-thirds of all civilian casualties from aerial
operations, amounting to 648 civilian causalities (320 deaths and 328 injured).
In 2018, international military forces were responsible for
674 civilian casualties (406 deaths and 268 injured), 94 per cent of which
resulted from aerial operations.
Aerial operations and ground engagements caused the same
number of civilian casualties, tied as the two leading causes of civilian
casualties attributed to Pro-Government Forces in 2018.
The armed conflict continues to have a severe impact on
children and women, who made up 38 per cent of all civilian casualties. Child
casualties represented 28 percent of all killed and injured. UNAMA recorded
3,062 child casualties (927 deaths and 2,135 injured). While this was a slight
decrease compared to 2017, child deaths reached record high levels in 2018,
mainly due to the more than doubling of child deaths from aerial operations, as
well as an increase in child deaths from suicide attacks.
Anti-Government Elements caused 1,343 child casualties (324
deaths and 1,019 injured), comprising 44 per cent of all child casualties in
2018. Pro-Government Forces caused 1,051 child casualties (414 deaths and 637
injured), comprising 34 per cent of overall child casualties.
Overall child casualty figures showed AGEs continued to
cause most child casualties in 2018, although it decreased by three per cent
compared to 2017, while there was a 15 per cent increase in child casualties
attributed to Pro-Government Forces. UNAMA documented that Pro-Government
Forces were responsible for the deaths of 414 children in 2018, while
Anti-Government Elements were responsible for the deaths of 324 children in
2018.
Women casualties reduced by six per cent to 1,152 (350
deaths and 802 injured), resulting mainly from the eight per cent decrease in
women casualties from ground engagements. Women comprised 10 per cent of
conflict-related civilian casualties in 2018.
In the report, UNAMA acknowledges the efforts taken by the
Afghan national security forces, international military forces, and Taliban to
protect civilians from harm caused. However, given the scale and scope of
civilian casualties that has continued at very high levels for years, it
emphasizes that more needs to be done.
Among its recommendations, the report urges Anti-Government
Elements to cease the deliberate targeting of civilians and civilian objects,
as well as the indiscriminate and disproportionate use of all IEDs. It calls on
the Government of Afghanistan and international military forces to strengthen
their review of incidents involving allegations of civilian casualties and
ensure that effective reparations are provided for harm suffered. Beyond this,
a halt in the fighting by all parties is the only effective way to protect civilians.
MENAFN2502201901690000ID1098167718
MENAFN2502201901690000ID1098167718
Legal Disclaimer:MENAFNprovides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.

Tags
Comments
Category
Date
Daily(English)Daily(Arabic)All()

World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data.
Contact UsClick here
Copyright © 2000MENAFN.All rights reserved.
Design & Devleopment byMENAFN

Title: MSN


Title: US officials warn ISIS’ Afghanistan branch poses a major threat | CNN Politics
ISIS’ Afghanistan-based affiliate has emerged as a major threat capable of carrying out direct attacks on the US and is actively using its members’ social media to acquire contacts in the United States, a US intelligence official in Afghanistan tells CNN.
“They are closest to having the capacity to attack the homeland from Afghanistan,” the official said, saying the US believes ISIS is gathering this social media information to determine whom they can use and whom they could exploit in potential future attacks on the US.
“They represent a very sophisticated and dangerous threat that we have to stay focused on,” Gen. Joseph Votel, the commander of US Central Command, told reporters Tuesday while on a visit to Afghanistan.
Related articleAfghans fear Trump team is about to sell them out
The terror group, known as ISIS-K, has been actively recruiting from schools and mosques and has been asking new recruits for their social media contacts and phone numbers of people they know in the US, to likely help their efforts to attack the US, according to the intelligence official.
The official said that this intelligence has been gained from ISIS-K fighters that have been captured on the battlefield and interrogated by Afghan security forces.
ISIS has the “mandate to attack across the Atlantic” and ISIS-K is one of its affiliates that has been “tasked to do that,” the official said.
“ISIS, as a violent extremist organization has been successful in exploiting social media and looking at people that are on social media and very quickly reaching out to them and using that as a medium to bring them in the organization,” Votel said.
“I think they have a very sophisticated way of recruiting. We certainly have seen that in Iraq and Syria and we see it here,” Votel added.
The warnings about the threat posed by ISIS-K comes as the terror group is on the cusp of being driven from its last bastion in Syria.
Related articleCommander of US-backed forces fighting ISIS asks US to keep troops in Syria
While the two affiliates share an ideology and tactics, the depth of their relationship with regards to organization and command and control has never been entirely established.
The US intelligence official said that the membership of ISIS-K includes “a small number of veteran jihadists from Syria and other foreign terrorist fighters,” saying that the US has identified 10 to 15 of their top operatives in Afghanistan.
US officials have previously expressed concerns that as ISIS losses its last strongholds in Syria, its fighters may seek to flee to other affiliates in places like Afghanistan.
Votel said that the membership of ISIS-K “reflects more of a local South Asia flavor and includes some elements of foreign fighters but also includes some elements of people that are local to the area here.”
ISIS-K has established itself in remote areas in Afghanistan’s mountainous eastern provinces and the official said that the Afghanistan affiliate “doesn’t need large swathes of land like ISIS in Iraq and Syria does.”
The head of US Special Operations Command, Gen. Raymond “Tony” Thomas told the Senate Armed Services Committee earlier this month that the US military has “made huge progress against ISIS-K which is the primary external threat in Afghanistan.”
The US has killed several ISIS-K leaders in recent years and has conducted numerous airstrikes and raids targeting the terror group in its redoubts in eastern Afghanistan.
The Taliban has also fought ISIS as the two anti-government groups compete for territory and recruits.
Related articleTop US general disagrees with Trump over Syria troop pullout
Despite those battlefield successes, US officials would not say how many fighters are currently in ISIS-K.
A PentagonInspector General reporton the US military mission Afghanistan said that “as of September 2018, it estimated that there were fewer than 2,000 ISIS-K fighters in Afghanistan.”
“We conducted operations against them for some period of time and I think we’ve had a good disruptive impact on them, they operate in areas that are extraordinarily remote, difficult to get into and you have that challenge here in Afghanistan with mountains and some of the rugged terrain that exists here in Afghanistan,” Votel said.
And despite nascent negotiations between the US and the Taliban regarding a potential peace settlement in Afghanistan, Votel said that the US has vested interests in combating international terror groups like ISIS.
“The fact of the matter is that we have an enduring interest here to make sure that violent extremist groups in this part of the world can’t be used to hurt Americans, American interests and American homeland,” he said.
© 2024 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.

Title: US officials warn ISIS’ Afghanistan branch poses a major threat | fox43.com
ISIS’ Afghanistan-based affiliate has emerged as a major threat capable of carrying out direct attacks on the US and is actively using its members’ social media to acquire contacts in the United States, a US intelligence official in Afghanistan tells CNN.
“They are closest to having the capacity to attack the homeland from Afghanistan,” the official said, saying the US believes ISIS is gathering this social media information to determine whom they can use and whom they could exploit in potential future attacks on the US.
“They represent a very sophisticated and dangerous threat that we have to stay focused on,” Gen. Joseph Votel, the commander of US Central Command, told reporters Tuesday while on a visit to Afghanistan.
The terror group, known as ISIS-K, has been actively recruiting from schools and mosques and has been asking new recruits for their social media contacts and phone numbers of people they know in the US, to likely help their efforts to attack the US, according to the intelligence official.
The official said that this intelligence has been gained from ISIS-K fighters that have been captured on the battlefield and interrogated by Afghan security forces.
ISIS has the “mandate to attack across the Atlantic” and ISIS-K is one of its affiliates that has been “tasked to do that,” the official said.
“ISIS, as a violent extremist organization has been successful in exploiting social media and looking at people that are on social media and very quickly reaching out to them and using that as a medium to bring them in the organization,” Votel said.
“I think they have a very sophisticated way of recruiting. We certainly have seen that in Iraq and Syria and we see it here,” Votel added.
The warnings about the threat posed by ISIS-K comes as the terror group is on the cusp of being driven from its last bastion in Syria.
While the two affiliates share an ideology and tactics, the depth of their relationship with regards to organization and command and control has never been entirely established.
The US intelligence official said that the membership of ISIS-K includes “a small number of veteran jihadists from Syria and other foreign terrorist fighters,” saying that the US has identified 10 to 15 of their top operatives in Afghanistan.
US officials have previously expressed concerns that as ISIS losses its last strongholds in Syria, its fighters may seek to flee to other affiliates in places like Afghanistan.
Votel said that the membership of ISIS-K “reflects more of a local South Asia flavor and includes some elements of foreign fighters but also includes some elements of people that are local to the area here.”
ISIS-K has established itself in remote areas in Afghanistan’s mountainous eastern provinces and the official said that the Afghanistan affiliate “doesn’t need large swathes of land like ISIS in Iraq and Syria does.”
The head of US Special Operations Command, Gen. Raymond “Tony” Thomas told the Senate Armed Services Committee earlier this month that the US military has “made huge progress against ISIS-K which is the primary external threat in Afghanistan.”
The US has killed several ISIS-K leaders in recent years and has conducted numerous airstrikes and raids targeting the terror group in its redoubts in eastern Afghanistan.
The Taliban has also fought ISIS as the two anti-government groups compete for territory and recruits.
Despite those battlefield successes, US officials would not say how many fighters are currently in ISIS-K.
A PentagonInspector General reporton the US military mission Afghanistan said that “as of September 2018, it estimated that there were fewer than 2,000 ISIS-K fighters in Afghanistan.”
“We conducted operations against them for some period of time and I think we’ve had a good disruptive impact on them, they operate in areas that are extraordinarily remote, difficult to get into and you have that challenge here in Afghanistan with mountains and some of the rugged terrain that exists here in Afghanistan,” Votel said.
And despite nascent negotiations between the US and the Taliban regarding a potential peace settlement in Afghanistan, Votel said that the US has vested interests in combating international terror groups like ISIS.
“The fact of the matter is that we have an enduring interest here to make sure that violent extremist groups in this part of the world can’t be used to hurt Americans, American interests and American homeland,” he said.
Next up in5
Example video title will go here for this video
Next up in5
Example video title will go here for this video




In Other News
Notifications can be turned off anytime in the browser settings.

Title: 
	Afghan govt. left out of Taliban talks - The Hindu

To enjoy additional benefits
CONNECT WITH US
Published- February 09, 2019 08:34 pm IST
Afghan former President Hamid Karzai in Moscow, ahead of the conference with Taliban earlier this month.
Earlier this month, the Taliban met with a group of Afghan politicians in Moscow. While the government was not included in the talks, prominent Afghan leaders like ex-President Hamid Karzai, former National Security Adviser Hanif Atmar, Deputy-Chief Executive Mohammad Mohaqiq, and Opposition leader Atta Mohammad Noor were among those present.
Both sides called the gathering “successful” and issued a nine-point declaration, one that calls for regular intra-Afghan dialogues but, more interestingly, also recognises specific demands made by the Taliban, like its call for a complete withdrawal of foreign forces.
Repeated media reports on ‘partial’ and ‘full withdrawal’ have raised fear and concerns over the security situation. The U.S. special envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad, on Thursday quashed rumours over the immediate withdrawal of American troops. “I’ve heard some individual Taliban officials claim that we have a troop withdrawal timetable for Afghanistan. Today, they correctly retracted that claim. To be clear, no troop withdrawal timetable exists,” he said. Among other demands that found place in the declaration were the release of Taliban prisoners, removal of its leaders from the UN blacklist and the opening of a political office.
However, many Afghans, including President Ashraf Ghani, raised serious concerns over the meetings. Mr. Ghani, who despite his best efforts has so far been kept out of the peace process, dismissed the Moscow talks, stating that the Afghan delegation there has “no executive authority”. Haroon Chakhansuri, spokesperson to the Afghan President, called the Moscow meeting “a political and academic discussion”. He said the declaration was a “summary” of the two-day summit. “It is not an executive outcome on peace.”
This view resonated among many Afghans, even those critical of Mr. Ghani. “The Moscow talks delegation represents the interests of a group of individuals of one or two election tickets, not accountable or responsible to the people of Afghanistan,” said Ejaz Malikzada, external relations officer at the Afghan Institute for Strategic Studies, a Kabul-based think tank.
Mr. Malikzada was among the many Afghans who took to Twitter and shared their opposition under the hashtag #UDontRepresentMe, referring to the Afghan delegation in the Russian capital.
“As you can see, there is widespread opposition on social media to the Moscow conference and the Taliban’s call to dissolve the ANSF [Afghan National Security Forces],” he said, referring to a statement made by the Taliban representative, Mohammad Abbas Stanikzai, to the media, stating that after the withdrawal of U.S. troops, there will be no need for the Afghan Army.
“Instead of legitimising the Taliban, giving them an international stage to express their medieval and misogynistic agenda, the ‘delegation’ could have stood with the nation’s call, which is supporting the entity of the government,” said Mr. Malikzada.
Some other demands made by the insurgents earlier, like the call to scrap the Afghan Constitution, have also become a reason for worry. “The only entity that can represent the Constitution of Afghanistan, the ANSF, and the interests of the nation is the government of Afghanistan,” said Mr. Malikzada, who has been critical of the government in the past. “Despite shortcomings, we can only rely and trust the entity of the government that is an epitome of the values we have achieved so far in the past 18 years,” he added.
(Ruchi Kumar is a freelance journalist based in Kabul)
Published- February 09, 2019 08:34 pm IST
Despatches
Copyright© 2024, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
BACK TO TOP
Terms & conditions|Institutional Subscriber
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by ourcommunity guidelinesfor posting your comments.
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.

Title: Defence News - Read Latest Updates on Indian Defence



Title: Afghan Air Force to get 159 Black Hawks, but it doesn’t even have the pilots to fly them | Fighter Sweep
The U.S military is scheduled to provide the Afghan government with 159 UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters as part of an effort to modernize the Afghan Air Force (AAF) and make the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) less reliant on coalition aircraft for their operations. However, a report from the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) questions the ability of the Afghans to operate the Black Hawks given a lack of sufficiently trained pilots and ground maintenance personnel.
Aside from the AAF, some helicopters are destined for the elite Special Mission Wing (SMW). Established in 2005, the SMW is the cream of the crop of the AAF. With around 800 men, the unit was initially designed to support counternarcotics operations in Afghanistan. Its superb record and the increasing intensity of the Taliban insurgency, however, led to the SMW expanding its mission set to include counterterrorism operations, ferrying AfghanSpecial Forces and commandos.
The program stipulated for contractors to provide training to both pilots and engineers. Sixteen Black Hawks have already been delivered. The rest are scheduled to arrive in Afghanistan in batches, with the last to arrive by 2023.
“Given concerns that the Afghan Air Force and Special Mission Wing may not be able to fully use all 159 aircraft when delivered,” said the SIGAR report, “the Department of Defense runs the risk of wasting U.S. taxpayer dollars to purchase aircraft the AAF and SMW cannot fly or maintain.”
The project began in 2017 with the training of an initial group of Afghan pilots. By May 2018, the designated deadline for the first qualified pilots, 15 Afghans had successfully graduated the training and were deemed eligible to fly the UH-60 in combat operations. The AAF flew its first UH-60 operational mission in May 2018.
Thus far, the AAF and the SMW have been utilizing the MI-17, which can fly higher and has the capacity to carry a larger passenger load. However, the UH-60 is more maneuverable and smaller than the Russian-made MI-17, making it less likely to be shot down. Furthermore, the AAF’s fleet of around 50 MI-17s is struggling to meet operational requirements.
According to the SIGAR report, one of the main problems facing the project is the inability of the selected Afghan pilots and engineers to achieve sufficient proficiency in English, and particularly in the technical language that is required when operating and maintaining highly complex airframes.
To avoid wasting taxpayers’ money, the SIGAR report recommends that the deliveries of Black Hawks coincide with graduating classes of Afghan pilots.

This article was written byStavros Atlamazoglou
U.S. Army Photo by Staff Sgt. Osvaldo Equite/Released. DVIDS.
© Copyright 2024SOFREP Media Group. All Rights Reserved.

Title: Afghanistan: The Case For Democracy And Peace – OpEd – Eurasia Review
A Journal of Analysis and News

Afghanistan's Mohammad Ashraf Ghani. Photo by Patrick Tsui/FCO, Wikipedia Commons.
ByAziz Koshan*
“Afghanistan as a state can survive if it is strong and democratic” said President Ghani in hislatest interview. The President made this statement at a time when “peace-process” is in process, and the nature of the future Afghan State is in debate on the negotiating table. When survival of the state is at stake, it is the ideas that may save the country from falling apart.
The crux of this idea which has been proposed for the survival of Afghanistan is the continuity of the current model which is democratic and its source of its legitimacy being drawn from the Afghan People, and the functionalist approach to foreign policy of the current Afghan government which is to maintain peace though cooperation and common interest of all countries in the region, while currently the mechanism to maintain peace in the region is through arms race and deterrence.
Immanuel Kant the German philosopher introduced the theory of “perpetual peace” in the field of academics in the year 1795. This theory states that a state can only ensure peace only if its civil constitution is “republic” and the consent of the citizens are required in matters of war and peace. Naturally the citizens are opposing to declare war, while favoring to ensuring sustainable peace. on the other hand, a democratic setup does provide alternative mechanisms such as election for a peaceful transfer of power and the means to resolve conflicts nonviolently in order to ensure peace within the state. The world noticed the importance of this philosophy much later in the 20th century when Europe was shattered by the first and the second world War, and millions of people died during these wars and then the world leaders established the United Nations and the European Union based on the Kant’s Philosophy in order to prevent the occurrence of future wars between the states and within the states.
In the entire history of Afghanistan, transfer of power between the Afghan leaders has never been peacefully and it has been through violent means, which has resulted in regime change or a total collapse of the state in anarchy. The first instance of peaceful transfer of power was only in the year 2014, when power was transfer from former President Hamid Karzai to the current President Ashraf Ghani.
The current democratic setup in Afghanistan which was established in 2002, has prevented the repeat of the violent struggle for power and representation of the 1990s which was resulted in a bloody civil war, but violence is not stopped in the country. Taliban are avenging violence against the state since 2001, when their theocratic regime was toppled by the International Coalition Forces. Although this model has the capacity to accommodate different views and diverse identities. As a responsible and democratic state the Afghan government has left the doors open to all the groups to participate in dialogue and negotiation to resolve differences peacefully, at the same time it has also use legitimate force to protect citizens from harm in the last 17 years.
But the Taliban are too reluctant to participate in a democratic process and to present their model and to win the people’s will and to assume power peacefully, but they have totally relied on violent means to sabotage the whole system without the people’s consent. Polls conducted in 2018 reveals that 82.4% of the Afghans have no sympathy for the Taliban with this kind of an unpopular record among the Afghan people in a democratic set up the Taliban are the bad loser, because the Afghans has defied violence and despite the severe violent threat by the Taliban, people’s participation in democratic processes has been overwhelming, only in the presidential election of 2014, voters turnout was seven million out of 12 million eligible voters, or about 58 percent, compare to the 51% voter’s turnout in 2018 election in Pakistan and the 65.4% in the well-established democratic system in India.
Historically an Afghan state never existed in its current geography, neither there has been a continuous flow of civilizations like China or India, rather the empires and civilizations never been defined in the current geography, which should have created a strong base for the current Afghan state. It was only in 1785 when Ahmad Shah Abdali an army officer in the Afsharid Empire of Iran defied the empire and established the current state of Afghanistan, the fomula was not suited in the context of the Afghan society which is diverse, led to the formation a weak state and society failing to establish a common ground to create a binding force to hold the different segment of the society together. Although, this weakness hasn’t deterred the Afghan society to counter the great powers invasion of Afghanistan and to continue living as a free “nation.” This Weakness has caused the Afghan people to pay huge price in order to live as a free “nation” in a region where realpolitik dictates the behaviors of the states in conducting relations. Arms race and deterrence are set to be the main forces to maintain peace in the region. Afghan state has never been able to follow the dominant order which rules the region.
Power politics has been the norm in the region since the partition of India in 1947 and the tense relation with the new state Pakistan and the two states went to war on several occasions, but the 1971 war which led to the partition of Pakistan and gave birth to Bangladesh, while in the course of the war 96,000 Pakistani soldiers in East Pakistan surrendered to the Indian army. The two countries went even further to acquire nuclear weapons to deter each other fear. The fear perception among the two nations is too great that it was Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto the then prime minister of Pakistan to set the tone of survival though strength, he said “we will eat grass but to build the bomb.” After both India and Pakistan acquired nuclear weapons, the nature of warfare has changed from conventional force-on-force battle to an unconventional warfare, and security threat perception has caused the countries in the region to have a military expenditure which is far greater than the rest of the world compare to its GDP share, while neglecting other priorities including the delivery of services to its citizens and poverty reduction, currently the region inhabits 50% of the world’s poor. Weaknes has deterred Afghanistan to follow the same order like the rest of the countries, at the same time refusing to sacrifice its foreign policy rights to the “big boys” like Nepal and Bhutan which has surrendered their foreign policies to India.
The former World Bank employee, and the current Afghan President has felt this hard reality which has been pulling the whole region from utilizing its full potential for economic development trade and its demographic surplus for prosperity and the need for change in the existing order. He initiated a new discourse to turn confrontation in to cooperation and to bring up the geopolitical importance of Afghanistan in the forefront to become the point of connectivity in the region. With the initiatives under taken during his tenure has been to turn Afghanistan in to a bridge to connect south Asian to the Central Asia and ultimately to Europe through various regional projects like the Lapis Lazuli Corridor, the Silk Route and other projects like the CASA 1,000, TUTAP, and TAPI to deliver the reserved energy in the Central Asian States to South Asian countries which are in urgent need to fuel their growing economies. The Ghani Model of Cooperation has been well received by the countries of the region, but there are states who are too reluctant to come out of the classical security paradigm and to face the new phenomenon of triumph of globalization and the liberal world order.
The current peace-process which was initiated Zalmai Khalilzad the State Department’s special representative for the Afghanistan reconciliation is aimed at a swift withdraw for the American Forces and for the Taliban is to get bigger international legitimacy and to distract the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) offensive in the winter. The distraction of the ANSF will allow the Taliban to prepare for a strong spring offensive.
On the other hand, Taliban are not conducting talks with the Afghan Government in order to resolve the conflict through dialogue, while focusing on the US and NATO forces to leave the country and to establish a transitional government which is weaker and doesn’t have the required legitimacy. All the moves of Taliban are meant to weaken the Afghan government because they are “too weak to win” this war militarily when the ANSF are being supported by the international troops. Without the international troops to train, advice and to equip the ANSF, and a weaker government in Kabul the Taliban will be able to dictate terms and even to over-run militarily the Afghan Government.
The Taliban are unpopular among the Afghan people and proxies of the neighboring countries following foreign policy goals of these countries are unable to compete in a democratic setup in Afghanistan and they have well calculated the risk of being another Hekmatyar who signed the peace agreement on May 2017 with Afghan Government and has failed to acquire popular support and even his son failed in the parliamentary election of 2018.
*Aziz Koshanis an Afghan columnist and researcher, he got his masters in Conflict Resolution from Jamia Millia Islamia University India. He tweets @AzizKoshan
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Name*
Email*
Website

What is the MENA region? MENA is the acronym for “Middle East and North Africa”, regularly used in academic and
This article is just plain wrong! The author may have a professorship, but his academic rigor is very poor. To…
there are legitimate reasons for USA to dissolve. the country is divided and bankrupt whoever wins the next election will…
THIS IS ONE OF THE WORSE PIECES EVER POSTED ON EURASIA REVIEW, MOST RACIST, ANTI-SEMITIC ANTI-UKRAINIAN RANT. WHY DID ER…
This is either the most self-deceiving rose-tinted spectacles view of Russia I have ever read, or a despicable set of…
It is wishful thinking to expect Gwadar Port to be a game changer for Pakistan. It has not materialized so…

Title: The Afghan promise
A promise for peace in Afghanistan can be blunted by two principal and two tertiary factors. The principal ones include the sitting Afghan government especially Ashraf Ghani as the president and the former cabal of the Northern Alliance variously called the Panjsheris, and India which holds unmatched influence over individuals in the government and institutions such as the NDS as it indulges in a dirty proxy-war against Pakistan.
Both may not like to see normalcy reached in Afghanistan since strife and war and an economy around those seem essential to their short-term interests. The spite of having been left out of what is currently underway adds to their frustration.
What is at stake here for Ashraf Ghani? He was a controversial president from the moment of his election but around the good offices of the US caretakers he has kept at the head of a unity government for the last five years. He is now due for another election in May, delayed – sadly for him – to give time to the US point-man, Zalmai Khalilzad, the opportunity to coin peace with the Taliban and enable the US a face-saving exit. This doesn’t spell too propitious for Ghani. He would have hoped for his support from the Kabul elites and their US patrons to sustain as he fought the next election and probably win to be the face in Kabul that the Americans could trust through the next phase of their unending war.
The Panjsheri Tajiks, ever the sworn enemies of the Pakhtun Talibs, could also be placated by the Americans to continue to accept Ghani at the head. With this new objective to vacate Afghanistan, the entire edifice of Ghani’s hopes and prospects – as indeed the eminence that Tajiks, Abdullah and Co – have enjoyed in the government, seem dashed. To Ghani and to the Tajiks peace may not be the first priority; position in power and the control of resources chiefly enabled by American expedition there will be.
The key thus to a successful power-sharing arrangement may be to ensure the prominence of the Ghani-Abdullah combine. Post the elections, were Ghani to win, the political order may perpetuate and find permanence. Otherwise, even if Ghani was to relent the Panjsheri Tajiks would still prove obdurate on the road to peace unless suitably accosted.
At least one effort is afoot to dissuade Ghani’s apprehension. It comes in the shape of the intra-Afghan dialogue for which the Taliban and the rest, minus the Afghan government, have met in Moscow. It may not yet be the feared rejection of the peace process by the Ghani government, but it surely is a tactical attempt at regaining some lost space in the journey. Such tactical play by Ghani may even find support with the US to deny the Russians any space.
So, who all have met the Taliban in Moscow? Hamid Karzai, Hikmetyar and Hanif Atmar. Implicitly the three and other members of the opposition in Afghanistan have done what is right for the people, for Afghanistan, for themselves and for the US. Ghani and his government have thus by inference taken a stance which will appear regressive and deny the US the pace of realising an early closure of war and in forging peace in anticipation of its departure. Alliances for future political dispensations implicitly thus begin to become apparent whenever elections do subsequently happen. We may yet see the return of Hamid Karzai.
Yet Ghani must be incorporated to deliver peace. One way is to plan a prolonged phase of an interim government, say for two to three years, which shall be good to assimilate the warring Taliban and make them agents of peace within and stakeholders in Afghan peace without. The remnants of those who may still fragment from the Taliban in this process or the likes of Daesh and the TTP who may still dot the Afghan landscape may need another concerted effort by the ANSF and the Taliban cadres to eliminate them to deliver peace. Weaned off war and invested in peace and its derivatives of power and prosperity, such a combine in Kabul can lead to improved political stability. Giving Ghani the presidency for three more years in the interim government will invest him in its success.
A disenchanted Afghan government and a piqued Ghani are India’s best bet. The opposite, however, will close India’s acquired space for mischief against Pakistan. So while it isn’t a direct stakeholder in the process, India has the making of a nasty spoiler. To that end it will need to be managed by those who wield influence over it. The US wants peace and an exit; India should not be able to deny what the US may need. Engaging the Afghan government early enough in the process is the best option to deny India its nefarious motives.
Among the two tertiary factors, America’s deep game remains a concern. There are however mitigating considerations. President Trump just last week reiterated he wants out of Afghanistan and will be happy to retain a base in Iraq to oversee Iran. The US also has Iran under check from Bahrain. And a more pliant political order in Afghanistan in the short term will anyway be a convenient arrangement to enable emergent deployments on the Iranian border if ever needed. So Iran isn’t really a big concern for the US from the Afghan prism; especially with the resident capacity to instigate trouble through its intelligence outfits. An alternate base in Afghanistan to a formerly held facility in Kyrgyzstan may have been a consideration but Trump for the moment is content with saving $45 billion.
The second tertiary spoiler could be Iran. They have an increasingly intimate relationship with the Taliban and could play the spoiler if they desire the strife to continue and the US to remain embroiled. Iran already has soft influence through the Persian-speaking Tajiks and Turkics of northern Afghanistan. But, considering its long-standing confrontation with the US, it shall seek a relief at least from one of the three directions – Iraq, Bahrain and the Gulf, and Afghanistan – that the US has it surrounded from. An Afghanistan minus the US and with the Taliban a part of the power circles should translate into a more meaningful Iranian influence vis a vis all others in the region if indeed peace ensues as conceived.
Principally then the need is for Ashraf Ghani to be engaged at the earliest in the process and a system evolved to keep his interest and political ambition suitably provided in the interim arrangement before Afghanistan can revert to full normalcy in its state and societal functioning. A necessary amount of influence will need to be exercised by those seeking peace in Afghanistan and the region to keep the Taliban wisely counselled on the imperative need for them to find accommodation and the space to include all segments in larger Afghan interest. That only can ensure a sustainable surviving order.

Email: shhzdchdhry@yahoo.com
Scheme overlooks pressing need to address deep-rooted inequalities tied to caste, gender, class, and ethnicity
Making a flag out of the veil is a perpetual theme of Tappa, a genre of Pashto poetry
Pakistan has seen minimal improvement, languishing in a state of economic stagnation
Pakistani politics is full of twists and turns like a smash-hit soap opera
Majority Hindu community increasingly believes that such violence is morally justified under this ideology
Doing the same thing and expecting a different result is futile
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: Taliban seeks leader's release as Turkey hosts talks on Afghanistan
Taliban demands release of and names Anas Haqqani as member of team holding direct talks with US, as Russian and US envoys to Afghanistan plan to discuss Afghanistan situation in Ankara later this month.
Anas Haqqani, senior leader of the Haqqani network, was arrested by Afghan Intelligence Service (or NDS), in Khost province, October 16, 2014.
The Taliban on Tuesday sought the release of one of its captive leaders in Afghanistan and named him as a member of the negotiation team for the second round of talks with the US, a demand that comes as US and Russian envoys plan to discuss Afghanistan in the Turkish capital Ankara later this month.
Taliban is pushing for the release of Anas Haqqani, a top leader of its offshoot Haqqani Network, who has been charged with some of the deadliest attacks in Kabul.
Mullah Baradar, who is leading the Taliban's political office in Qatar, named a total of 14 men led by Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanikzai to hold talks with US envoy Zalmay Khalilzad later this month in Doha.
"Mr Anas Haqqani has been appointed to the negotiation committee, but he has not been released [by the Afghan government] so far," Zabihullah Mujahid, the Taliban spokesman, said in a tweet.
Afghan officials had claimed they captured Haqqani from southeastern Afghanistan in 2014.
But Taliban says Haqqani was captured by theUS forces in Bahrainfrom where he was sent back to Qatar and then handed over to Kabul.
Intra-Afghan dialogue
The US envoy, Zalmay Khalilzad, is on a tour to coordinate efforts for peace in Afghanistan with partners in Europe, the Middle East and South Asia.
In a series of tweets following a meeting in Brussels with EU and NATO partners, Khalilzad said "jumpstarting" the intra-Afghan dialogue is an immediate priority.
"Our shared purpose is to reach a peace agreement (not a withdrawal agreement) that is worthy of the sacrifices made over decades of war," he said.
2/2  We went into#Afghanistantogether, and together we will determine our future posture, based on conditions we determine with Afghans. We also agreed that jumpstarting the intra-Afghan dialogue is an immediate priority.pic.twitter.com/zBuEknTx56
The Taliban's demand comes a day after President Ashraf Ghani hinted at a ceasefire and release of prisoners in hopes of entering direct talks with the Taliban.
Ghani implemented two ceasefires last year, but only one was briefly reciprocated by the Taliban.
The Taliban continues to avoid recognising and meeting the Afghan government.
Kabul maintains that any peace plan should be Afghan-owned and Afghan-led.
Turkey to host Russia, US envoy
Meanwhile, Turkey will host a fresh round of Russia-US talks on Afghanistan in Ankara on February 22, the Russian envoy said on Tuesday.
Speaking at a news conference, Russia's Presidential Envoy to Afghanistan Zamir Kabulov announced his meeting with his US counterpart Khalilzad.
He said both sides agreed to meet at a neutral venue in the region and Turkey came up as a "comfortable" option.
"I offered our Turkish partners who are important players [in Afghanistan] to use this trip for bilateral consultations with Turkish colleagues about Afghanistan," he said.
"We made significant progress on vital issues"US peace envoy to Afghanistan says talks with the Taliban are “productive”https://t.co/2bz0dO4xOGpic.twitter.com/qgzg0Jk9Ug
Another round of Moscow talks
Among other issues, the sides plan to discuss convening another round of the Moscow conference on the Afghan settlement, he said.
The two sides met Taliban leaders in Moscow in late December.
Kabulov praised the recent developments in the Afghan peace process, predicting that this year will be "decisive" for ending the 17-year war and "restoring an independent Afghanistan free of terror and drugs."
The Russian envoy said that upcoming presidential elections in Afghanistan will play a significant role as the winning candidate will be acceptable to all stakeholders.

Title: Jailed Haqqani Network leader in Taliban team of peace negotiators
Kabul, Feb 12 :The Afghan Taliban on Tuesday announced a 14-member team of negotiators, comprising some new faces including a jailed leader of the Haqqani Network, to continue peace talks with the US.
In a statement, the Taliban said "talks with the American sides (will) continue" and given "the importance of the issue", its chief Hibatullah Akhundzada asked his deputy Mullah Baradar to appoint a new team of negotiators, Efe news reported.
Sher Muhammad Abbas Stanekzai, who was the head of Taliban's political office in Qatar and has overseen a series of meetings with the US Special Envoy for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad, will continue to lead the negotiations, the report said.
Among the new appointees was Anas Haqqani, a son of Haqqani Network founder Jalaluddin Haqqani, who died years ago due to unknown illness although his death was reported only last year.
The senior Haqqani was believed to have masterminded some of the deadliest attacks targeting US and Afghan security forces and their interests in the last 17 years of war.
The Haqqani Network has pledged allegiance to the Taliban and is known to be coordinating its militant activities with the group.
Anas, a lesser-known figure in the Network now headed by his older brother Sirajuddin, was arrested in 2014 and remains in prison.
He was accused of directing the militant group's propaganda on social media and playing a crucial role in strategic decision-making and fundraising.
The Taliban on Tuesday renewed its demand for Anas' release to enable him be part of the team for talks.
"Anas Haqqani has been appointed a member of the negotiating team, but is still in prison. As he was a student (when he was arrested) and did not do any activity to lead to his imprisonment, therefore he should be released to start his new role as member of negotiating team," Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid told Efe.
Four former Guantanamo Bay inmates also figure in the list. Previously, a 10-member Taliban team was handling the negotiations with the US for ending the Afghan conflict.
The new team was formed a day after acting Pentagon chief Patrick Shanahan made an unannounced trip to Afghanistan and denied that he had received orders from President Donald Trump to reduce its US military presence in the war-torn country.
The pull-out of foreign troops from Afghanistan is one of the Taliban's key demands in peace negotiations.
The two sides have held several rounds of talks in the United Arab Emirates and Qatar amid opposition by Afghan President Ashraf Ghani's government, which insists on having a central role in the peace talks.
The Taliban has refused to engage with the government in Kabul.