Title: Afghanistan’s Green Gold: Taliban Terrorists Earn $15 Million a Year Selling Pistachios
Taliban jihadists generated $15 million for terrorist activities in 2016 from harvesting Afghanistan’s “green gold,” pistachios, over 32,000 hectares in the Kushki Kuhna district of the country’s western Herat province.
“They are being collected by the Taliban and armed locals,” lamented the head of the Badghis governor’s office, Sharafuddin Madjeedi, referring to the pistachios, reportedAgence France-Presse (AFP)last year.
Syed Mohammad Chishti Modudi, the Kushki Kuhna district’s administrative chief, toldPajhwok Afghan Newsthat “an investigation by agriculture experts showed$15 millionin annual income from [the] pistachio crop in the district lined [the] Taliban’s pockets.”
“He said two pistachio forests spread over 32,000 hectares of land existed in the district,” notes Pajhwok, adding that “the forests had been partially destroyed by local powerful individuals and Taliban.”
However, the Taliban managed to illegally harvest up to 40 percent of the country’s crop after it raided the pistachio forests in Herat last year.
Afghanistan’s “pistachio belt” runs through the provinces of Badakhshan in the northeast; Kunduz in the north; and Herat in the west.
The U.S.-backed Afghan National Defense and Security Forces (ANDSF), which include soldiers and police officers, are unable to protect some pistachio forests in the war-devastated country because the Taliban closely monitors them and towns nearby.
“Government forces have no authority over the pistachio forests in Badghis province because they lie in Taliban-controlled areas,” explained Hafizullah Benish, agriculture director in the western province.
As of mid-November 2016, the Kabul-based government hadlost controland/or influence of about 43 percent of Afghanistan.
Known as Afghanistan’s green gold, Afghans proudly harvest world-class pistachios, notedAgence France-Presse (AFP)in July 2016, adding that the Taliban had laid its eyes on the lucrative crop.
Over the past few years, Afghan authorities have imposed a ban that makes it a crime to access pistachio forests in 11 provinces.
Nevertheless, the restrictions have failed to serve as a deterrent for Taliban and other “strongmen” in the country.
“Fears are growing that the Taliban and local strongmen are depriving” poor farmers in the war-ravaged country “of much-needed export income,” noted AFP.
The Taliban also generates millions from the sale of the illicit drug opium, which is primarily cultivated in Afghanistan.
U.S. Gen. John Nicholson, the top commander of American and NATO forces in Afghanistan, revealed last year that opium and its heroin derivative “provides about 60 percent of the Taliban funding.”
Taliban jihadists “tax the farmers, they tax the narcotics traffickers and this is how they derive their revenue,” the top American general explained to Pentagon reporters.
It appears that the Taliban generates a substantial portion of the remaining 40 percent from the harvest of pistachios.
Pistachio profits are “not enough to compete with opium production that generates, according to the UN, about $160 million a year in Afghanistan. But enough, for some, to make ends meet,” pointed out AFP.
The Taliban may have more than tripled the profits from pistachios over the last two years, from an AFP estimate of $4.2 million in 2014 to about$15 millionlast year.
Mohammad Aman Amanyar, the forest supervisor for Afghanistan’s Agriculture Ministry, pointed out in 2016 that “nearly four decades ago, before the near continuous wars that have since ravaged Afghanistan, the country was carpeted with up to 450,000 hectares of pistachio forest.”
“Now, after violence and misery, ’40 to 50 percent of the trees are gone for firewood, or are victims of climate change and drought,'” he added.
Late last year,Gen. Nicholsondetermined that theongoing warin Afghanistan is at a stalemate.
Pleaselet us knowif you're having issues with commenting.




Copyright © 2024 Breitbart

Title: Iran and Russia Team up with Taliban to Undermine U.S.-led Mission in Afghanistan | Middle East Institute








Ahmad Majidyar
Afghan and U.S. officials say Iran and Russia have teamed up to undermine the U.S.-led stabilization efforts in Afghanistan by sheltering, training, funding and arming Taliban insurgents. They claim that the two countries have not only expanded their diplomatic engagement with the Taliban leadership, but are also providing advanced weapons to the insurgents that are fighting the Afghan government and the U.S.-led coalition forces in the country. Iran has reportedly set up new training camps for Taliban fighters along Afghanistan’s border and has delivered Russian arms to the insurgents in western and southern Afghan provinces.
Iran-Russia-Taliban Axis
On Thursday, Army Gen. Curtis Scaparrotti, the head of the U.S. military's European Command and the Supreme Allied Commander for NATO,warnedthat Russia has deepened its ties with the Taliban. "I've seen the influence of Russia of late, increased influence in terms of association and perhaps even supply to the Taliban," he told the Senate Armed Services Committee. And last month, the top U.S. commander in Afghanistan, Gen. John Nicholson,saidRussia and Iran were supporting the Taliban in part to undermine the U.S. and NATO mission in Afghanistan.
Senior Afghan officials express similar concerns. “We have received [intelligence] reports that Iran has obtained some weapons from Russia and delivered them to the Taliban. We cannot confirm it 100 percent. But intelligence reports show that the Taliban receive training inside Iran,”Afghanistan’s Ariana Newsquoted Gulbahar Mujahid, the chief security commander of Farah Province, in a report published on March 23. Other Farah officials also told Arian News that the Iranian government has established military training centers for Taliban militants in Zabol, a city in Iran’s Sistan and Baluchestan Province, and in the Khorasan region (Khorasan-e Razavi and South Khorasan Provinces). All the three Iranian provinces share border with Afghanistan. “We have received intelligence reports that training camps have been established in Iran’s Naibandan area [in Khorasan], and they provide military training to the Taliban. Indeed, Russia, with Iran’s assistance, is equipping the Taliban with advanced weapons,” Farah’s Deputy Governor Muhammad Younis Rasooli claimed.
Push-back from Afghan Government
While Afghan leaders often blast the Pakistani government for supporting the Taliban, they have largely been silent about the Iranian government’s relationship with the insurgents over the past decade. But as ties between Tehran and the Taliban are expanding, Afghan leaders – particularly members of parliament and security and civilian officials in southern and western provinces – have recently become more vocal in their criticism of Iran. “Evidence of Russian and Iranian cooperation with the Taliban has been found," Fazal Hadi Muslimyar, chairman of the Afghan Senate,claimedlast December, adding that the Senate was investigating growing military ties between the Taliban and Iran and Russia.
Last month, Ismail Khan, a former Afghan jihadi leader and influential politician in western Herat Province,warnedthe Iranian government against providing military and financial assistance to the Taliban militants. “Support for the Taliban will strain our relations and enemies will never be able to secure your borders,” he said at a gathering in western Herat Province on the occasion of the 28th anniversary of the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan. He also condemned Russia’s growing ties with the Taliban and called on both Tehran and Moscow to “learn from the past and stop aiding the Taliban.” The warning by Khan, who has had close relations with Iran for decades, shows that Afghan leaders have lost patience with Tehran’s double game in Afghanistan. Khan has also alleged that Taliban militants receive weapons from Turkmenistan.
Beyond western Afghanistan
Not all Iranian subversive activities are confined to western Afghanistan, however. Two months ago, Afghan authoritiesallegedthat Iran had sent a delegation to meet with Taliban commanders in the restive province of Helmand. On January 23, Hayatullah Hayat, the governor of Helmand, told Afghanistan’s 1TV channel that the National Directorate of Security was investigating allegations that the Iranian team also delivered weapons to Taliban militants in Helmand’s Garmsir District. The timing of these reports is important as the Taliban have made significant territorial gains in Helmand Province in recent months. The insurgents yesterdaycapturedHelmand Sangin District, a strategic area where more American and British troops have been killed than in any other of Afghanistan’s nearly 400 districts.
Diplomatic Ties
Both Iran and Russia have also broadened their diplomatic engagement with the Taliban leadership. Iran has hosted several Taliban delegations for talks and conferences in recent years; and in 2014, the Iranian government “formalized” its relationship with the Taliban by allowing the terrorist group to open an office in Mashhad, the capital of Iran’s Khorasan-e Razavi Province. When a U.S. drone killed Taliban leader Mullah Mansur in Pakistan last year, he wasreturningfrom a trip to Iran.
Moscow, too, has cultivated close relations with the Taliban leadership – raisingconcernin Kabul that regional governments are directly engaging the Taliban for their own interests at the expense of Afghanistan’s stability. The Trump administration has reportedlydeclinedRussia’s invitation to attend a meeting with the Taliban leaders scheduled in Moscow on April 14.
Iran’s Motives
On the surface, Iran’s support for the Taliban does not appear logical: Taliban is a reactionary militant group that massacred Afghan Shiites in late 1990s, and Iran and the Taliban almost went to war when the latter killed Iranian diplomats in northern Afghanistan. The Taliban's return to power in Afghanistan would undermine Iran’s geopolitical interests in South and Central Asia and pose a serious threat to Iran’s internal security as well – particularly in its restive Sunni-majority province of Sistan and Baluchestan. But by providing measured support to the Taliban, the Iranian government is pursuing several key objectives in Afghanistan: to accelerate the withdrawal of U.S. troops from its eastern border; to establish a buffer zone in western Afghanistan against a potential threat of Islamic State; to use its ties with the Taliban for its geopolitical agenda in South and Central Asia as well as in the Middle East; and to pressure the Afghan government for political concessions.
When Iran signed the nuclear agreement with the United States, the Afghan government hoped that a thaw in relations between Washington and Tehran would benefit Afghanistan’s stability and economic development. But if Iran’s growing support for terrorist groups in Afghanistan and across the broader Middle East is any indication, the Islamic Republic has no desire to moderate its behavior in the region or improve its relations with the United States.
The Middle East Institute (MEI) is an independent, non-partisan, non-for-profit, educational organization. It does not engage in advocacy and its scholars’ opinions are their own. MEI welcomes financial donations, but retains sole editorial control over its work and its publications reflect only the authors’ views. For a listing of MEI donors, please clickhere.
media@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x241
events@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x202
development@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x203
mej@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x205
communications@mei.edu
202-785-1141
Middle East Institute1763 N St. NW, Washington D.C. 20036

© 2018 Middle East Institute All Rights Reserved |Accessibility Policy| Built bySocial Driver.

Title:   Will Afghanistan Become the Next Proxy War? | THEAsiaN


Tuesday 24 September 2024
By Habib Toumi FUJAIRAH: A unique edition of the Holy Quran was the most…
By Nasir Aijaz The AsiaN Representative KARACHI, SINDH, PAKISTAN: The police on Thursday September…
RIYADH: Saudi Arabia will not recognize Israel without the establishment of a Palestinian state,…
By Habib Toumi FUJAIRAH: A unique edition of the Holy Quran was the most…
By Nasir Aijaz The AsiaN Representative KARACHI, SINDH, PAKISTAN: The police on Thursday September…
RIYADH: Saudi Arabia will not recognize Israel without the establishment of a Palestinian state,…
By Habib Toumi FUJAIRAH: A unique edition of the Holy Quran was the most…
By Nasir Aijaz The AsiaN Representative KARACHI, SINDH, PAKISTAN: The police on Thursday September…
RIYADH: Saudi Arabia will not recognize Israel without the establishment of a Palestinian state,…
SEOUL: The death of the president of any country is an exceptional event, especially…
CAIRO: An annual award will celebrate the important work done by African publishers, a…
SEOUL: Asia Journalists Association (AJA) is deeply concerned about the severe toll on journalists…
CAIRO: Ashraf Aboul-Yazid combines being a novelist, a poet, a journalist, a travel writer…
By Alin Ferrer-Garganera Asia is complex and complicated.  Among the seven continents, she…
In 1990s Britain, three friends: Kathy, Ruth, and Tommy attend the quaint boarding school,…
By Habib Toumi SUWON: People fascinated by mass communication and the development of…
A controversial decision to make plastic wrapping over all checked in luggage mandatory at…
Seoul Fashion Week 2017 F/W collections have drawn to its close already; however, let’s…
Afghanistan turned into a matter of “prestige” during the War on Terror initiated by the George W. Bush administration. In other words, the “Enduring Freedom Operation” was the first indication that the USA was becoming a global hegemon. The US’ involvement in Afghanistan was unrivaled and different from the “Great Game” of the 19th century—it was to show its own national power to the world.
Russia’s Interest in Afghanistan
While the question of why the Soviet Army was sent to Afghanistan is frequently questioned by Russian thinkers, it is hard to say that there is remorse regarding the fallacy of the decision made by the USSR to intervene in Afghanistan. Russians think the USSR failed in Afghanistan because of their hasty method of intervention. It was significant for Putin to have praised the intervention in Afghanistan during his visit to see Afghan war veterans for the Russian Afghanistan strategy. It can be said that Russian interest in Afghanistan is loaded with symbolic values, and its tendency to regard Afghanistan as the place where it will once again present itself in world politics is on the rise. Undeniably, Russia regards the USA and NATO as the responsible parties for what happened in Afghanistan. Russian donation of 10,000 Kalashnikov rifles to Afghanistan immediately after NATO forces was pulled out in 2013 and its recent collaboration with Taliban to “fight against ISIS” by exchanging knowledge and intelligence are important to fully understand Russian interest in Afghanistan.
Chinese Regional Politics on the Context of “One Belt, One Road”
An 890 billion dollar budget has been allotted to the “One Belt, One Road” project with the leadership of the Chinese Ministry of Development. Through this project, China generated great anticipation and rivalry among the countries of the region. The 97 km border between China and Afghanistan has caused China to regard the developments in Afghanistan as part of its national security agenda. Afghanistan, on the one hand, thinks that China is increasing its influence in the region and that it will not be possible to attain domestic peace without the involvement of China. Particularly, the activity of Chinese companies within the Afghan infrastructure and energy sector is what increases China’s prestige in Afghanistan.
The Afghanistan Government and Taliban Peace Talks
While some wanted to establish talks with the Taliban, there were also other members who were against all such efforts at communication. The Taliban regards the USA and the Afghanistan government as the prime actors responsible for what happened in Afghanistan. In this setting, it can be said that it is futile to expect positive results from establishing talks. The fact that the US acted without a long-term strategy regarding Afghanistan is another reason preventing peace talks. As the opium trade in Afghanistan exceeds 3 billion dollars, establishing talks without determining the role Taliban will assume in the drug trade will only ensure these talks will be doomed from the start. Indeed, the political bureau of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (opened in Qatar in 2013 to execute peace talks by Taliban) was closed down after an ultimatum by the Afghanistan government. It can be speculated that peace talks with Taliban as a consequence of the United States’ will regarding the issue is devoid of reality; another example of Obama’s “optimism”.
The Taliban-ISIS Rivalry in Afghanistan
When Taliban was formed it was announced that their reason d’être was to establish an ideal Islamic society in Afghanistan. Taliban, by operating a social message and punishment system, tried to keep its public support alive. ISIS on the other hand, apart from Taliban, sets forth a relatively broader envision of the world. ISIS, by the implementation of the Caliphate, aims to obtain global political power. ISIS has become the first organization to be approved in the East of Afghanistan and the first to challenge Taliban in Afghanistan. Besides, high unemployment in Afghanistan and the pensions offered by ISIS to its militants worries Taliban of losing its social support. ISIS forbids the plantation of drugs in the areas it dominates in Afghanistan.
In a final analysis, as a weak state, Afghanistan does not have control of even 30% of its own soil. Even though its land is rich with natural resources, it is the nation’s fragile political structure that allows it to continue becoming a war zone for great powers and radical organizations. Indeed, ISIS found itself a base in Afghanistan. The prime aim of ISIS in Afghanistan is to call the attention of the rest of the world in Afghanistan and away from Iraq and Syria where IS lost its power. Despite all, Russia feels differently from the USA regarding the future of Afghanistan, especially after the Ukraine and Syria crises. And in this context, it can be said that the indecisive Afghanistan policy of the USA played for the benefit of Russia.
Namely, in 2014, even when the US Air Force conducted 13,000 sorties in Afghanistan despite all the uncertainty, the number dropped to 2000 sorties in 2016. Though radical structuring continues to take root in the region, the USA continues to make the same mistakes it did in Iraq by leaving behind a “weak state” next to radical groups. Current US P0esident Donald Trump may follow a different path regarding the future of Afghanistan than the one followed by the Obama administration. However, it is not correct to assume that the US will be successful in Afghanistan this time around. This is because similar to Obama, Trump also does not have a long-term foreign policy regarding the issue of Afghanistan. Also, within the last days of 2016, there have been a number of meetings to stabilize Afghanistan—all of which the US did not attend. In this direction, in a joint meeting conducted in Moscow by representatives from Russia, China, and Pakistan, concerns regarding the power ISIS attained in Afghanistan were voiced. After all, while Pakistan brought together authorities from Afghanistan and Taliban in the last days of 2016, no tangible result was obtained. In short, even though countries of the region reflect each other in order to maintain domestic peace in Afghanistan, time will tell whether these reflections will be enough to prevent the spread of the Iraqi and Syrian proxy wars towards Afghanistan.
PhD, International Relations - President of Strategic Outlook Institution in Turkey
View all Posts
Let’s introduce Ms. Yi (not her real name), one of…

Title: Russia’s Pakistan Epiphany - Northlines
Date:
Lt Gen Prakash Katoch
The terrorist attack on Sardar Daud military hospital in Kabul on March 8, killing over 30 and injuring 50 plus underscores the worsening security situation in Afghanistan. The Islamic State has claimed responsibility. Taliban has denied involvement but that may not be the true story.
Russia has opened the new chapter in the ‘Great Game' in the Af-Pak region by siding with the Taliban, same as Iran, even as opium production in Afghanistan (major source of funding for the ISI) rose 43% from 2015 levels.
The UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) Report for 2016 released February 6, 2017 brings out that 2016 saw the highest ever number of civilian casualties in a single year; 11,418 conflict-related civilian casualties, including 3,498 killed and 7,920 injured (3,512 children – 923 dead and 2,589 injured). It also brings out anti-government forces (mainly the Taliban) responsible for almost two thirds of the casualties, and; majority of the casualties caused by Daesh/ISKP occurred in three large-scale attacks on the Shia Muslim community.
Highlights of UNAMA report of July 2016 included: 5,166 people killed / maimed in Afghanistan (Jan to June 2016); civilian casualties in Afghanistan (Jan 2009 – 30 Jun 2016) 64,000 (23000 killed, 41,000 injured) – “conservative” estimates; and majority casualties caused by the anti-Afghan government forces – Taliban and  organized armed groups including Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-i-Mohammed (JeM), Haqqani Network, Hezb-e-Islami, Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, Islamic Jihad Union, groups identified as ‘Daesh' (IS) and other militia and armed groups. This was the first time names of Pakistani proxies LeT and JeM appeared. Later was confirmed that Pakistan based Laskar-e-Jhangvi (LeJ) and Sipah-i-Sahiba were also operating in Afghanistan.
As per the Special Inspector General for Afghan Reconstruction (SIGAR) report presented to the US Congress in February 2017, Afghan government had 57.2% of the country under its control by the end of 2016 — a 6.3% decrease from 2015 albeit officials in Kabul and the US administration both been denying that the Taliban is gaining ground.
The SIGAR report corroborates those reports noting that Kabul now exerts influence over just a little over half of Afghanistan. The SIGAR report also notes displacement is at an all time high; in 2016, 583,000 people fled their homes due to conflict – highest number of displacements since record keeping started in 2008.
China has been hosting Taliban for consultations and so has Russia. Russia has even indicated it will activate the airbase in Tajikistan that had been renovated byIndia.
In December 2016, General John Nicholson, top US commander in Afghanistan, had stated that of the 98 US-designated terrorist groups globally, 20 are in the Af-Pak region, which represents the highest concentration of terrorist groups anywhere in theworld. The Islamic State of Khorasan (ISKP) was reported to be having a number around 1000. It is no secret that the Taliban are fully supported by Pakistan and China, Pakistan's ISI having lien on both Taliban through Sirajuddin Haqqani, chief of Haqqani Network) while the ISKP is linked to the ISI.
It is in the above setting that Russia has opened the new chapter in the ‘Great Game' in the Af-Pak region by siding with the Taliban, same as Iran, even as opium production in Afghanistan (major source of funding for the ISI) rose 43% from 2015 levels.
With  Chinese patrols filmed deep inside Eastern Afghanistan, China has deflected the issue, in line with its policy of ambiguity and deceit, that it has been undertaking joint counter-terrorism exercises with Afghan security forces. However, the photographs showing only Chinese vehicles and no Afghan vehicles prove the Chinese lies.
China has been hosting Taliban for consultations and so has Russia. Russia has even indicated it will activate the airbase in Tajikistan that had been renovated by India.  Russia finally invited India to the six-nation talks at Moscow on February 15; Iran, Afghanistan, China, Pakistan and Russia being the other countries that were to participate in the consultations. What transpired at the meeting is not known but bringing the Taliban to the negotiating table would be herculean task.
Pakistan is blaming Afghanistan for the situation in Af-Pak despite all the human tragedy that Pakistan has wreaked upon the Afghan population.
Earlier on December 27, 2016, Russia had hosted a similar trilateral meeting (Russia, China, Pakistan) but notably no representative of the Afghan government as well as India was invited then to deliberate on the future of Afghanistan.  Now in late February, Afghanistan has invited India to join a new regional consultative mechanism to weigh in on the critical challenges facing the war-torn country.
The new body, a 6+1 group, will include India, Pakistan, Iran, Russia, the US and China in addition to Afghanistan. Incidentally the erstwhile Quadrilateral Consultation Group (QCG) comprising US, China, Afghanistan and Pakistan, met yet again in Kabul last month but the prospects of reconciliation with Taliban remain slim. But ultimately, success of multilateral consultation groupings, whether on Syria or Afghanistan, depends on the sincerity of the members. In the instant case, the sincerity of both China and Pakistan are highly suspect.
Pakistan is blaming Afghanistan for the situation in Af-Pak despite all the human tragedy that Pakistan has wreaked upon the Afghan population. Asif Ghafoor, Pakistan's DG ISPR is calling on Afghanistan to abandon its ‘anti-Pakistan lens' and devise policies with Pakistan through an ‘Afghan lens'. Qamar Javed Bajwa, Pakistani army chief told General John Nicholson that terrorist activities and inaction against militants in Afghanistan were testing Pakistan's current policy of cross-border restraint; some joke with Pakistan using every possible proxy to expand its strategic depth in Afghanistan – blowbacks in Pakistan notwithstanding.
The Chinese media indicates that Russia has little experience in handling Taliban but President Putin is no fool.
Meanwhile, the 7th Round of the Afghanistan Pakistan Bilateral (Track II/ I.5) Dialogue was held in Islamabad from March 5-6 2017. The joint statement included issues like: urgent need for collaborative bilateral approach; Da'esh pose existential challenges to the region; Taliban integral part of the terrorist movements in Af-Pak.
Those accepting Afghan Constitution could be integrated into the mainstream Afghanpolitics; ensure that their respective soil is not used for launching attacks inside the other country etc. But how can Pakistan be sincere when Sartaj Aziz, Advisor on Foreign Affairs to Pak PM told BBC in 2015, “Pakistan should not engage in a war with those (insurgents /  militants) whose target is not Pakistan.”
There is no denying that heightened economic sanctions against Russia have forced it to get closer to China and Pakistan. Russia's support to Taliban is being interpreted as its actual fear of the spreading influence of the Islamic State in Af-Pak. The Chinese media indicates that Russia has little experience in handling Taliban but President Putin is no fool.
Russia certainly does not want ISIS-Taliban entering Central Asia but Putin certainly has not misread Pakistan, and may be playing a larger strategic game.
The spread of Islamic State into Central Asia does threaten Russian interests even as the Islamic State of Uzbekistan is already aligned with the ISIS, not that there is no Russia-China clash of interests in Central Asia. With cadres of the actual ISIS moving into Af-Pak, the ISK would merge into ISIS. That there will be certain amount of cooperation between ISIS and Taliban in Af-Pak cannot be ruled out – same as was happening in Iraq-Syria between ISIS and Al Qaeda.
China and Pakistan would want that to oust the US-NATO from the region but US having spent more than $117 billion in Afghanistan since 2002 is not about to let go. The West would want that to curb Chinese-Russian influence in the region.
Russia certainly does not want ISIS-Taliban entering Central Asia but Putin certainly has not misread Pakistan, and may be playing a larger strategic game. Afghan government officials have claimed Russia has been delivering weapons to the Taliban, allegations that have been rejected by Russian officials. Whether Pashtunistan comes up or not only time will tell, with opposing parties in the ‘Great Game' wanting this new entity as a subset of Afghanistan or Pakistan, but logically the uptick in violence will affect China's OBOR and CPEC.
Lt Gen Prakash Katochis a former Lt Gen Special Forces, Army
Log in to leave a comment
Share post:
Popular
thenorthlines.com is a leading digital platform covering and disseminating the news, views and allied information on evolving public policies and responses pertaining to Indian subcontinent and its neighbourhood with a particular focus on the north India region.
© 2024 Northlines. All Rights Reserved.

Title: Afghan Official: Taliban Reportedly Seeking Russian Aid to Take on IS 
Print
The Taliban in northern Afghanistan is seeking Russian assistance to build up its fight against Islamic State-backed militants along the country's border with the former Soviet Union, an Afghan official told VOA.
The governor of the strategic northeastern Kunduz province said Thursday the Taliban is asking Moscow for weapons and training to counter the expanding influence of IS groups in various parts of the country.
“They [Taliban] are now opposing the Islamic State group and are attempting to convince Russia into extending a helping hand to them,” Kunduz Governor Assadullah Omarkhail told VOA's Afghan service on Thursday.
Several militant groups are active in the restive Kunduz province, which borders Tajikistan, a breeding ground for IS sympathizers who have by the thousands gone to fight with IS in Syria and Iraq. Recently, a Tajik militia pledged allegiance to IS, spurring fears IS influence may expand into northern Afghanistan.

Kunduz remains a hot spot
Kunduz, the capital city of the province, briefly fell to the Taliban two years ago. Last year, Taliban militants came close to capturing the city again before Afghan forces pushed them back.
The Taliban reportedly has recently amassed fighters in Kunduz's Imam Saheb district, bordering Tajikistan.
“The Taliban has about 650 fighters, most of whom are local residents, in the district and they have been deployed in 45 groups,” district governor Imamuddin Quraishi told VOA.
According to Quraishi, Taliban fighters are equipped with heavy weapons, and they train in areas along the border with Tajikistan.
“They [Taliban] control the Zangla area near the Tajikistan border where they train terrorists,” said Quraishi.
Local Taliban leaders in Kunduz reportedly have met with Russian advisors across the Amu River in Tajikistan, according to Afghan media reports.
Taliban's connections with Russia came under the spotlight last year as Moscow sought to increase its influence in the nation it once occupied, and to counter IS expansion from Afghanistan to neighboring Central Asian countries.
Russia has acknowledged ties with the Taliban as it views Taliban help as essential in fighting the spillover effects of the IS insurgency in Afghanistan.
Russian officials say Moscow is not supplying Taliban militants with arms and training, though, asserting their contacts with the Taliban are aimed at diplomatically facilitating the peace process in Afghanistan.

Troubling talks
Afghan and American officials are increasingly wary, however, of the deepening ties between Russia and the Taliban that is fighting to topple the government in Kabul. Such an involvement on Russia's part, they say, could complicate an already precarious security situation in the country.
“I believe what Russia is attempting to do is they are attempting to be an influential party in this part of the world,” U.S. Central Command chief Gen. Joseph Votel told House lawmakers on Wednesday.
“I think it is fair to assume they may be providing some sort of support to [the Taliban], in terms of weapons or other things that may be there,” Votel said.
According to Wahid Muzhda, a Kabul-based Taliban expert, Moscow has provided the Taliban with a well-equipped mobile clinic, along with a large supply of medicine to treat injured Taliban fighters in the southern Helmand province, where Afghan forces are engaged in heavy battles with Taliban.
A Taliban delegation from its political office in Qatar recently told officials in Moscow the Taliban wanted anti-aircraft missiles, according to Muzhda.
As Moscow's concerns grow that IS is expanding to Central Asia, Taliban is a willing ally, Muzhda said.
“Taliban have been fighting IS in Afghanistan and that has brought the group closer to Russia,” said Muzhda. “The Taliban have killed several IS-linked, anti-Russia Uzbek fighters in Afghanistan.”
While opposed to Taliban insurgency — Taliban controls some 33 of the country's 407 districts — Kabul and the U.S. reject notions that Taliban are fighting IS in Afghanistan.
“This idea that Taliban and Daesh [IS] are opposed to each other is wrong,” Afghanistan national security advisor Mohammad Hanif Atmar told Indian media this month. “It's actually the morphing and mutating of Taliban … into Daesh. They are the same people, but there is a lot of re-branding here.”
Taliban claims discounted
U.S. military officials say Afghan forces — and not Taliban — are battling IS.
“The Taliban is not fighting ISIS-K,” U.S. Navy Capt. Bill Salvin, spokesperson for Resolute Support headquarters in Kabul, told VOA last week. “It is the Afghan security forces that are taking the fight to ISIS-K and we are working with our Afghan partners in order to make sure that we continue to keep the pressure on these terrorists groups.”
IS's self-styled Khorasan Province branch (ISIS-K) has taken root in mountainous areas of Afghanistan and Pakistan, increasing its recruiting efforts and terror attacks nationwide. Its name refers to a centuries-old description of Afghanistan and surrounding areas of Central Asia and Persia.
IS has been active in eastern Afghanistan for the past two years. It recently has expanded to northern Jouzjan province. Its activities in Kunduz, however, are harder to detect, experts say.


Title: When Islamic State and the Taliban Compete, Afghanistan Loses – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
Analysts continue to misjudge the potential threat posed by the Islamic State’s contingent in Afghanistan. They shouldn’t.
Sardar Daud Khan Hospital in Afghanistan’s capital city, Kabul,was attackedon March 8 by a bold and complex operation. Men dressed as medics detonated explosives to open the hospital’s main gate and proceeded to open fire on unarmed civilians and medical personnel. The attackers were killed in the hospital after a lengthy battle with Afghan security forces.Another attackoccurred in Kabul a few days later on March 13, when a vehicle filled with explosives rammed a minibus and exploded. This was the fourth major attack in Kabul this month, which usually only sees one major attack per month.
The Afghan Taliban have denied any involvement in the Sardar Daud Khan Hospital attack. In recent months, the group has taken a more moderate line (relatively speaking). They haveeven promisedto not attack infrastructure projects in the country. The Islamic State’s Khorasan Province (ISKP)has claimed creditfor the attack and, if verified, it would be one more attack in a series of events that indicate a changing strategic landscape in Afghanistan.
Many have discounted the potential impact of ISKP, the Islamic State affiliate in Afghanistan. They’ve struggled to extend control outside of Nangarhar Province, their unique brand of extremism is not well received by the Afghan population, and the Taliban continue to dominate in terms of number of attacks, number of deaths, and territory held. However, the emergence of ISKP represents the first time since 2001 that an anti-government movement has existed in the country that competes with, rather than complements, the Taliban movement. These two organizations will compete for recruits, resources, and prestige; and in the process, they will increase the violence and instability in the region, even if the Taliban remain the dominant insurgent group.
As the chart below shows, the opposition to the international statebuilding operation in Afghanistan has been dominated by the Taliban since the U.S. invasion in 2001. Approximately 40 known terrorist and insurgency organizations have operated in the country throughout the statebuilding operation. However, other than the Taliban, only the Haqqani Network and Hizb-i-Islami have had any marginal and sustained significance — that is, until the establishment of ISKP in 2015.

ISKPwas responsiblefor 56 casualties the first year it wasofficially announcedas an ISIS affiliate in early 2015. In that first year, it became more significant than any other non-Taliban group in the country. 2016 saw a series of high profile attacks, including anattack on a funeralin Kabul that killed 80 andanother attackoutside Afghanistan’s Supreme Court that killed 22. 2017 has continued this trend, even with commentators and analysts continuing to focus on ISKP’s inability to gain territory as an indication of their insignificance. This is a result of comparing ISKP to its parent organization, which is an anomaly in the world of terrorism. Most terrorist organizations are small in number, last a short period of time, and never hold territory. Therefore, ISKP’s threat potential is being based on an unreasonably high standard.
Some have noted the vast difference in number of attacks, and the lethality of attacks, as evidence for the claim that the Taliban remain the primary threat in Afghanistan. However, this is an answer to the wrong question. Rather than asking which group poses the biggest threat, we should be asking what it means that a rival to the Taliban are becoming increasingly effective. What does this increasingly complex battlefield mean for the central Afghan government, as well as the international community that has a stake in the outcome?
When two organizations exist in the same space, fighting for the same cause and competing for the same pool of potential recruits,they will engage in outbidding. They will attempt to one-up each other to show that they are the true vanguard of the cause, that they are more important, and to try to attract more recruits and resources. This occurred on an international level when the Islamic State swept into prominence in 2014. Their bold successes and brutality attracted prestige within the jihadist movement and diverted recruits away from al-Qaeda. This process will not only lead to more violence, but will most likely push each organization to increase the brutality and scale of their attacks as they compete with each other.
Mia Bloom, a terrorism scholar, when discussing increasing violence in the Palestinian territories said, “Multiple organizations are engaged in this competition and use violence to increase their prestige.” This argument is used to explain changes in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict when Fatah adopted the use of suicide bombing when it had historically avoided this tactic. Fatah was pushed into competition with other groups claiming to fight for the same cause, especially Hamas.
It is argued that Fatah felt compelled to adopt strategies that it saw as helpful for Hamas in recruiting fighters. This is especially concerning considering the fact that the Taliban have taken arelativelymore conciliatory tone in recent months and that ISKP is pledging allegiance to an organization known for its barbarity.
Are these organizations actually competitors, or are they complementary movements that will coordinate their attacks? The world’s misunderstanding of ISKP is apparent when they question whether these two organizations will be competitors. ISKP came into existence as a result of disillusioned Taliban fighters defecting and forming their own group. Some have questioned ISKP’s ability to carry out the hospital attack because of the complexity and difficulty. However, ISKP members are former Taliban members with knowledge, connections, and a ready supply of examples to follow (theTaliban attackedthe same hospital in 2013). They are similar in that they are two groups that focus on the “near enemy” and preference the gaining of territory at the expense of the central Afghan government. It is therefore a zero-sum game between them; if one holds a province the other cannot.
Another argument presented to diminish the perceived threat posed by ISKP is to say that their ideology is not well received by the Afghans and that their attempts to expand out of Nangarhar Province in eastern Afghanistan have been rebuffed. These are true, but missing the point. ISKP poses a threat even if they don’t hold territory. Being confined to holding territory in Nangarhar Province hasn’t kept them from launching deadly attacks in Kabul, and it doesn’t stop them from competing with the Taliban.
Terrorist organizations can pose substantial threats even if they are not the biggest or the deadliest. ISKP’s emergence on the Afghan battlefield presents a significant strategic problem for the Afghan central government and its international partners that wish to see a stable and prosperous Afghanistan in the near future. Competition in this increasingly complex environment will only serve to worsen the peacemaking process. Even if that Taliban leadership were to agree to a peace settlement and were capable of enforcing it among their increasinglydisaffected members, authorities now need to consider ISKP’s position in the country. Civil wars with multiple and fractionalized oppositions are more likely to end later, rather than sooner. Analysts shouldn’t get caught in the trap of saying ISKP doesn’t matter because they don’t want them to matter.
Adam Wunische is a contributing analyst at Wikistrat and a Ph.D. student at Boston College.You can follow him on Twitter @AdamWunische
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: To Afghanistan Not Syria? Islamic State Diverts Tajik Fighters South - Jamestown
March 15, 2017 06:15 PMAge: 8 years
In February, the Iranian government extradited five members of the same family originating from Hamadoni district, in southern Tajikistan, back to their home country (Radio Ozodi, March 2). Abdulfayz Vazirov, 33, and his sister Mohira Salimova, 32, left Tajikistan for Russia in the summer of 2016 with her three children. Under the guidance of Abu Nureki, a Tajik fighter in Iraq, they traveled to Turkey. But they could not cross the border with Syria and made their way to Iran instead. Khojaev traveled directly to Iran from Novosibirsk, where he had been working as a mediator on a construction site. The family was detained near Zahedan, in southern Iran, while trying to cross the border into Afghanistan to join the Islamic State Khurasan Province (ISKP)—the local Afghani wing of the international terrorist organization.
This was not an isolated incident. Muhammed Khojaev, 29, from Mastcha, in northern Tajikistan, had crossed the border from Iran into Afghanistan in December 2016 (Radio Ozodi, February 23). As the Islamic State (IS) continues to lose ground in Syria and Iraq, some recruits from Tajikistan are apparently being diverted to fight in Afghanistan—although this is not yet an established conventional militant route.
Hundreds of Central Asians joined the jihad in Afghanistan prior to the 2001 invasion led by the United States. But in recent years, the number of fighters traveling to the region’s southern neighbor reduced to a trickle. Relatively few fighters have been reported in the media or on casualty lists (Afghan Analysts Network, June 27, 2014). In contrast, between 3,000 and 5,000 citizens from Central Asia have traveled to fight in Iraq and Syria since 2013. The Middle Eastern battlefield was more attractive for a number of reasons (Afghan Analysts Network, October 8, 2014). With most recruitment taking place in Russia, where millions of Central Asians work as labor migrants (see EDM,September 9, 2015;September 15, 2015;May 19, 2016), traveling to Syria and Iraq via Iran is easier than crossing the militarized Afghan frontier. Divorced from family and kinship networks, migrants have proved more susceptible to extremist messaging than closely watched communities at home. Thanks to its adept user of social media, the Islamic State was seen as winning when it declared its “caliphate” in June 2014, helping attract more fighters from the region.
But since its peak in the summer of 2014, the Islamic State has lost 62 and 30 percent of its territory in Iraq and Syria, respectively (Twitter.com/coalition, February 11). With the loss of territory has come a sharp drop in income, from an estimated $1.9 billion in 2014, to $870 million in 2016 (Icsr.info, February 17). At the same time, the border with Turkey, the main route for fighters entering the country, has become more difficult to cross. As a result, the number of Central Asians going to fight in the Middle East has decreased in recent years. According to government figures, 1,100 Tajik citizens have traveled to fight in Syria and Iraq. In 2016, according to the Ministry of Interior, just 40 citizens of Tajikistan took this journey, with 80 returning from the battlefield (Radio Ozodi, January 20). The recent cases of Tajiks trying to enter Afghanistan (see above) appear to be a product of this decline of the Islamic State’s fortunes in Syria and Iraq.
Having declared itself in January 2015, the ISKP has struggled to make inroads in Afghanistan. Estimates of the number of militants fighting with the Afghan wing of the Islamic State vary. Last year, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Grigory Karasin put the number at 6,000, but other experts have provided a more circumspect figure—2,500 (24News, July 4, 2016;Usip.org, April 7, 2016). ISKP is based in Nangarhar province, on the border with Pakistan, but has claimed responsibility for a string of attacks in Kabul (Afghan Analysts Network, July 27, 2016). Like their comrades in Syria and Iraq, fighters for the ISKP have suffered heavy casualties in recent months, losing 497 members in the final quarter of 2016, according to one report (Religionandgeopolitics.org[London], January 20). A number of Tajikistanis and Uzbekistanis are already fighting with the ISKP. But their strength is still unknown. Many joined in July 2015, when the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) swore allegiance to the ISKP (Furqon TV, July 31, 2015). The presence of ethnic-Tajik, -Uzbek and -Turkmen communities in northern Afghanistan has confused the process of identifying foreign fighters, with officials often describing Afghan citizens as “Tajik” or “Uzbek.” Given this tendency, the precise number of fighters in Afghanistan from post-Soviet Central Asia in fact is likely to be minimal.
Although a few Tajikistani citizens have attempted the Russia–Iran–Afghanistan route, ostensibly on orders from the Islamic State, the pathway is not yet fully established. More Central Asians can be expected to attempt that journey, but their success will depend on how tightly the Iranian government controls the border. The interdiction of one group trying to cross the border in February indicates a willingness on the part of the Iranian authorities to halt militant traffic. In summary, the diversion of Tajik recruits from Syria and Iraq to Afghanistan is a sign of the Islamic State’s overall weakness rather than its strength. Given the group’s numerous setbacks, the IS’s recruitment rates are unlikely to return to their 2014 levels. Meanwhile, a few extra Central Asian militants will not tip the balance in ISKP’s favor in Afghanistan.
About the Event Join us Thursday, July 11, in...MORE
Jamestown Senior Fellow Olevs Nikers was recently interviewed by French news outlet L’Express about the recent North Atlantic Treaty Organization Summit (NATO) in Washington DC...MORE
The September 2019 issue of Militant Leadership Monitor features a brief on Syed Salahuddin, the Hizbul Mujahideen chief who might still be able to affect the ongoing crisis in Kashmir; an examination of the ‘swashbuckling’ millionaire-turned-politician Sheikh Khamis Farhan Ali al-Khanjar al-Issawi in Sunni Iraq; a look at the...MORE
1310 L St. NW, Suite 810Washington DC, 20005
PHONE:202.483.8888FAX: 202.483.8337E-MAIL:pubs@jamestown.org

Title: UNHCR Web Archive


Title: Human Rights experts call for an end to fighting in populated areas - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
HERAT – As part of a series of events broadcast on local radio, UNAMA in Herat organized a panel of human rights experts recently to discuss the protection of civilians in conflict. The discussion was broadcast on Ariana Radio.
Last year saw a record number of civilian casualties in Afghanistan, with almost 3,500 people killed across the country.
Sayed Ashraf Saddat, the Civil Society Coordinator for the Herat Provincial Peace Advocacy Committee, said that ground engagements in populated areas are the leading cause of civilian casualties.
“We call on all parties to cease fighting in areas where the possibility of civilian casualties is high,” he said.
Marzia Rahmani, a Civil Society Activist, said warring parties should respect their obligations under international humanitarian law.
“These groups must cease the use of IEDs, mortars, rockets, grenades and other weapons, and aerial attacks in civilian-populated areas,” she said.
“Immediate actions and strategies need to be taken in protection of civilians and in bringing into justice any group responsible in harming civilians,” she added.
In its recentreport released in February 2017, The United Nations called on all warring parties in Afghanistan to take urgent steps to halt the killing and maiming of civilians. The report recorded the highest ever number of civilian casualties in a single year, including record figures for children killed and injured in 2016.
The report documents 11,418 conflict-related civilian casualties, including 3,498 killed and 7,920 injured. Of these, 3,512 were children - 923 dead and 2,589 injured, up 24 per cent on the previous highest recorded figure. The figures, recorded by UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA), are the highest since the UN began systematically documenting civilian casualty figures in 2009.
The report also documents the increase in attacks perpetrated by Daesh/ISKP (Islamic State Khorasan Province), particularly targeting Shia Muslims. UNAMA documented 899 civilian casualties (209 deaths and 690 injured), a ten-fold increase from last year. The majority of the casualties caused by Daesh/ISKP occurred in three large-scale attacks on the Shia Muslim community.
Airstrikes carried out by Afghan and international forces caused 590 civilian casualties (250 deaths and 340 injured) nearly double that recorded in 2015 and the highest since 2009.
UNAMA is mandated to support the Afghan Government and the people of Afghanistan as a political mission that provides 'good offices' among other key services. 'Good offices' are diplomatic steps that the UN takes publicly and in private, drawing on its independence, impartiality and integrity, to prevent national and international disputes from arising, escalating or spreading.
UNAMA also promotes coherent development support by the international community; assists the process of peace and reconciliation; monitors and promotes human rights and the protection of civilians in armed conflict; promotes good governance; and encourages regional cooperation.
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: IS Taking New Strategy in Afghanistan
By Ayesha Tanzeem  March 10, 2017
The attack in Kabul that killed at least 30 people this week, claimed by the Islamic State militants, was different in strategy from the group's past assaults.
Those, like the one on a Shi'ite Hazara minority group protest in Kabul last year, had been simpler. Large public gatherings are easy targets for a suicide bomber.
An attack on a military hospital in a city like Kabul, where security is so tight one cannot get into a shopping mall without going through metal detectors, requires complex reconnaissance and pre-planning. It pointed to the group's ability to carry out a sophisticated, intelligence-driven operation, according to Barnett Rubin, associate director of the Center on International Cooperation.
"[T]hey were able to reconnoiter the hospital very well to figure out how to get into it, to smuggle all of the explosive material into Kabul, to have a safe house where they could set up everything, they obtained the proper clothing in order to disguise themselves as doctors and so on," Rubin said.
NATO and the Afghan government like to point out that their security operations have reduced IS's numbers in Afghanistan from several thousand to now under a thousand, and their territorial control from more than 10 districts to fewer than five.
Gone underground
However, some analysts think this may not be the right approach to gauging the strength of a militant group like IS, which seems to have adapted and adjusted its strategy.
"I don't think we know that their numbers have diminished," according to Rubin. "We know that maybe the numbers of them fighting in a military way have diminished but they have changed tactics. They have gone underground. We don't know what their numbers are," he said.
Kabul-based political analyst Intizar Khadim expressed similar thoughts.
"I'm not talking about the number of IS increasing," he said. "I'm talking about the resources that is enabling Daesh (IS) to have increased."
General Nicholson, the top U.S. military commander in Afghanistan, acknowledged in a briefing to the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee that IS Khorasan Province, as IS calls its local chapter, had "shown an ability to conduct attacks in Kabul and elsewhere in the country" despite its battlefield losses.
The Kabul attack involved five suicide bombers. But for those five to operate, they probably required many more as support staff. That indicated that ISKP had managed to set up support networks inside Kabul.
The Kabul-based Afghanistan Analysts Network, in a dispatch published on its website last year, claimed to have some evidence of at least three ISKP cells operating in Kabul.
"Over the past eighteen months, AAN has been consistently hearing stories of young men from Kabul having adopted the IS ideology and joining its 'battlefields' in Nangarhar, Afghanistan, as well as in Iraq and Syria," the dispatch published in October of last year claimed.
While most Afghans reject IS ideology as too cruel and alien to their culture, high unemployment and lucrative salary offers are a significant draw for former fighters without jobs, according to Khadim.
"In Middle East you see Daesh [IS] is giving food for war. In Afghanistan they are paying high prices for any warrior that is joining this group. They are paying high wages for their fighters for grabbing guns and fighting for them," Khadim said.
The withdrawal of most of the international security forces from Afghanistan led to a significant decline in economic activity in the country. The growth rate plummeted to 1.3 percent in 2014 while the rate of poverty climbed to 39.1 percent in 2013-14, according to the World Bank.
The resultant high unemployment gave a boost to the recruitment efforts of groups like the Afghan Taliban and the IS that had the ability to pay lucrative salaries compared to the local market place.
However, money was not the only factor driving young men to the IS.
Propaganda effort
ISKP operates a deft propaganda machine including social media, videos and literature, as well as an FM radio channel that keeps popping back up every time it is knocked down by NATO or Afghan forces. The FM can be heard in parts of the eastern provinces of Nangarhar and Kunar.
"ISKP's romanticization of living as one of its fighters is unparalleled in the jihadist media in Afghanistan," according to another dispatch published on AAN's website.
Anecdotal evidence from various parts of Afghanistan suggests a slow but steady stream of new IS recruits.
Local journalists in Nangarhar told VOA that the voice of one IS radio broadcaster sounded too much like a local journalist they knew who had disappeared from the scene.
Khadim also pointed to the Afghan government's failure in providing good governance in many parts of the country as a reason for people to turn to militant outfits.
On the other hand, the threat of IS was leading regional players like Russia and Iran to increase their efforts to get the Taliban onboard for a political settlement.
Iran, a mainly Shi'ite country, was afraid of anti-Shi'ite IS getting too close to its borders and Russia wanted to keep IS influence away from the Muslim population in its backyard.
Another silver lining on the horizon was the increased economic activity in the region. China wanted to expand its Belts and Roads initiative, including a portion in Pakistan involving investments of more than $40 billion. India and Japan were collaborating on a seaport in Iran at Chabahar.
All of this means that the cost of instability in Afghanistan has gone up and regional players have a greater incentive to help find solutions to the country's security problems.



Title: IS Taking New Strategy in Afghanistan
No media source currently available
Print
The attack in Kabul that killed at least 30 people this week, claimed by the Islamic State militants, was different in strategy from the group’s past assaults.
Those, like the one on a Shi'ite Hazara minority group protest in Kabul last year, had been simpler. Large public gatherings are easy targets for a suicide bomber.
An attack on a military hospital in a city like Kabul, where security is so tight one cannot get into a shopping mall without going through metal detectors, requires complex reconnaissance and pre-planning. It pointed to the group’s ability to carry out a sophisticated, intelligence-driven operation, according to Barnett Rubin, associate director of the Center on International Cooperation.
“[T]hey were able to reconnoiter the hospital very well to figure out how to get into it, to smuggle all of the explosive material into Kabul, to have a safe house where they could set up everything, they obtained the proper clothing in order to disguise themselves as doctors and so on,” Rubin said.
NATO and the Afghan government like to point out that their security operations have reduced IS’s numbers in Afghanistan from several thousand to now under a thousand, and their territorial control from more than 10 districts to fewer than five.
Gone underground
However, some analysts think this may not be the right approach to gauging the strength of a militant group like IS, which seems to have adapted and adjusted its strategy.
“I don’t think we know that their numbers have diminished,” according to Rubin. “We know that maybe the numbers of them fighting in a military way have diminished but they have changed tactics. They have gone underground. We don’t know what their numbers are,” he said.

Kabul-based political analyst Intizar Khadim expressed similar thoughts.
“I’m not talking about the number of IS increasing,” he said. “I’m talking about the resources that is enabling Daesh (IS) to have increased.”
General Nicholson, the top U.S. military commander in Afghanistan, acknowledged in a briefing to the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee that IS Khorasan Province, as IS calls its local chapter, had “shown an ability to conduct attacks in Kabul and elsewhere in the country” despite its battlefield losses.
The Kabul attack involved five suicide bombers. But for those five to operate, they probably required many more as support staff. That indicated that ISKP had managed to set up support networks inside Kabul.
The Kabul-based Afghanistan Analysts Network, in a dispatch published on its website last year, claimed to have some evidence of at least three ISKP cells operating in Kabul.
“Over the past eighteen months, AAN has been consistently hearing stories of young men from Kabul having adopted the IS ideology and joining its ‘battlefields’ in Nangarhar, Afghanistan, as well as in Iraq and Syria,” the dispatch published in October of last year claimed.
While most Afghans reject IS ideology as too cruel and alien to their culture, high unemployment and lucrative salary offers are a significant draw for former fighters without jobs, according to Khadim.
“In Middle East you see Daesh [IS] is giving food for war. In Afghanistan they are paying high prices for any warrior that is joining this group. They are paying high wages for their fighters for grabbing guns and fighting for them,” Khadim said.
The withdrawal of most of the international security forces from Afghanistan led to a significant decline in economic activity in the country. The growth rate plummeted to 1.3 percent in 2014 while the rate of poverty climbed to 39.1 percent in 2013-14, according to the World Bank.
The resultant high unemployment gave a boost to the recruitment efforts of groups like the Afghan Taliban and the IS that had the ability to pay lucrative salaries compared to the local market place.
However, money was not the only factor driving young men to the IS.

Propaganda effort
ISKP operates a deft propaganda machine including social media, videos and literature, as well as an FM radio channel that keeps popping back up every time it is knocked down by NATO or Afghan forces. The FM can be heard in parts of the eastern provinces of Nangarhar and Kunar.
“ISKP’s romanticization of living as one of its fighters is unparalleled in the jihadist media in Afghanistan,” according to another dispatch published on AAN’s website.
Anecdotal evidence from various parts of Afghanistan suggests a slow but steady stream of new IS recruits.
Local journalists in Nangarhar told VOA that the voice of one IS radio broadcaster sounded too much like a local journalist they knew who had disappeared from the scene.
Khadim also pointed to the Afghan government’s failure in providing good governance in many parts of the country as a reason for people to turn to militant outfits.
On the other hand, the threat of IS was leading regional players like Russia and Iran to increase their efforts to get the Taliban onboard for a political settlement.
Iran, a mainly Shi’ite country, was afraid of anti-Shi’ite IS getting too close to its borders and Russia wanted to keep IS influence away from the Muslim population in its backyard.
Another silver lining on the horizon was the increased economic activity in the region. China wanted to expand its Belts and Roads initiative, including a portion in Pakistan involving investments of more than $40 billion. India and Japan were collaborating on a seaport in Iran at Chabahar.
All of this means that the cost of instability in Afghanistan has gone up and regional players have a greater incentive to help find solutions to the country’s security problems.


Title: Russia’s Pakistan Epiphany - Northlines
Date:
Lt Gen Prakash Katoch
The terrorist attack on Sardar Daud military hospital in Kabul on March 8, killing over 30 and injuring 50 plus underscores the worsening security situation in Afghanistan. The Islamic State has claimed responsibility. Taliban has denied involvement but that may not be the true story.
Russia has opened the new chapter in the ‘Great Game' in the Af-Pak region by siding with the Taliban, same as Iran, even as opium production in Afghanistan (major source of funding for the ISI) rose 43% from 2015 levels.
The UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) Report for 2016 released February 6, 2017 brings out that 2016 saw the highest ever number of civilian casualties in a single year; 11,418 conflict-related civilian casualties, including 3,498 killed and 7,920 injured (3,512 children – 923 dead and 2,589 injured). It also brings out anti-government forces (mainly the Taliban) responsible for almost two thirds of the casualties, and; majority of the casualties caused by Daesh/ISKP occurred in three large-scale attacks on the Shia Muslim community.
Highlights of UNAMA report of July 2016 included: 5,166 people killed / maimed in Afghanistan (Jan to June 2016); civilian casualties in Afghanistan (Jan 2009 – 30 Jun 2016) 64,000 (23000 killed, 41,000 injured) – “conservative” estimates; and majority casualties caused by the anti-Afghan government forces – Taliban and  organized armed groups including Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-i-Mohammed (JeM), Haqqani Network, Hezb-e-Islami, Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, Islamic Jihad Union, groups identified as ‘Daesh' (IS) and other militia and armed groups. This was the first time names of Pakistani proxies LeT and JeM appeared. Later was confirmed that Pakistan based Laskar-e-Jhangvi (LeJ) and Sipah-i-Sahiba were also operating in Afghanistan.
As per the Special Inspector General for Afghan Reconstruction (SIGAR) report presented to the US Congress in February 2017, Afghan government had 57.2% of the country under its control by the end of 2016 — a 6.3% decrease from 2015 albeit officials in Kabul and the US administration both been denying that the Taliban is gaining ground.
The SIGAR report corroborates those reports noting that Kabul now exerts influence over just a little over half of Afghanistan. The SIGAR report also notes displacement is at an all time high; in 2016, 583,000 people fled their homes due to conflict – highest number of displacements since record keeping started in 2008.
China has been hosting Taliban for consultations and so has Russia. Russia has even indicated it will activate the airbase in Tajikistan that had been renovated byIndia.
In December 2016, General John Nicholson, top US commander in Afghanistan, had stated that of the 98 US-designated terrorist groups globally, 20 are in the Af-Pak region, which represents the highest concentration of terrorist groups anywhere in theworld. The Islamic State of Khorasan (ISKP) was reported to be having a number around 1000. It is no secret that the Taliban are fully supported by Pakistan and China, Pakistan's ISI having lien on both Taliban through Sirajuddin Haqqani, chief of Haqqani Network) while the ISKP is linked to the ISI.
It is in the above setting that Russia has opened the new chapter in the ‘Great Game' in the Af-Pak region by siding with the Taliban, same as Iran, even as opium production in Afghanistan (major source of funding for the ISI) rose 43% from 2015 levels.
With  Chinese patrols filmed deep inside Eastern Afghanistan, China has deflected the issue, in line with its policy of ambiguity and deceit, that it has been undertaking joint counter-terrorism exercises with Afghan security forces. However, the photographs showing only Chinese vehicles and no Afghan vehicles prove the Chinese lies.
China has been hosting Taliban for consultations and so has Russia. Russia has even indicated it will activate the airbase in Tajikistan that had been renovated by India.  Russia finally invited India to the six-nation talks at Moscow on February 15; Iran, Afghanistan, China, Pakistan and Russia being the other countries that were to participate in the consultations. What transpired at the meeting is not known but bringing the Taliban to the negotiating table would be herculean task.
Pakistan is blaming Afghanistan for the situation in Af-Pak despite all the human tragedy that Pakistan has wreaked upon the Afghan population.
Earlier on December 27, 2016, Russia had hosted a similar trilateral meeting (Russia, China, Pakistan) but notably no representative of the Afghan government as well as India was invited then to deliberate on the future of Afghanistan.  Now in late February, Afghanistan has invited India to join a new regional consultative mechanism to weigh in on the critical challenges facing the war-torn country.
The new body, a 6+1 group, will include India, Pakistan, Iran, Russia, the US and China in addition to Afghanistan. Incidentally the erstwhile Quadrilateral Consultation Group (QCG) comprising US, China, Afghanistan and Pakistan, met yet again in Kabul last month but the prospects of reconciliation with Taliban remain slim. But ultimately, success of multilateral consultation groupings, whether on Syria or Afghanistan, depends on the sincerity of the members. In the instant case, the sincerity of both China and Pakistan are highly suspect.
Pakistan is blaming Afghanistan for the situation in Af-Pak despite all the human tragedy that Pakistan has wreaked upon the Afghan population. Asif Ghafoor, Pakistan's DG ISPR is calling on Afghanistan to abandon its ‘anti-Pakistan lens' and devise policies with Pakistan through an ‘Afghan lens'. Qamar Javed Bajwa, Pakistani army chief told General John Nicholson that terrorist activities and inaction against militants in Afghanistan were testing Pakistan's current policy of cross-border restraint; some joke with Pakistan using every possible proxy to expand its strategic depth in Afghanistan – blowbacks in Pakistan notwithstanding.
The Chinese media indicates that Russia has little experience in handling Taliban but President Putin is no fool.
Meanwhile, the 7th Round of the Afghanistan Pakistan Bilateral (Track II/ I.5) Dialogue was held in Islamabad from March 5-6 2017. The joint statement included issues like: urgent need for collaborative bilateral approach; Da'esh pose existential challenges to the region; Taliban integral part of the terrorist movements in Af-Pak.
Those accepting Afghan Constitution could be integrated into the mainstream Afghanpolitics; ensure that their respective soil is not used for launching attacks inside the other country etc. But how can Pakistan be sincere when Sartaj Aziz, Advisor on Foreign Affairs to Pak PM told BBC in 2015, “Pakistan should not engage in a war with those (insurgents /  militants) whose target is not Pakistan.”
There is no denying that heightened economic sanctions against Russia have forced it to get closer to China and Pakistan. Russia's support to Taliban is being interpreted as its actual fear of the spreading influence of the Islamic State in Af-Pak. The Chinese media indicates that Russia has little experience in handling Taliban but President Putin is no fool.
Russia certainly does not want ISIS-Taliban entering Central Asia but Putin certainly has not misread Pakistan, and may be playing a larger strategic game.
The spread of Islamic State into Central Asia does threaten Russian interests even as the Islamic State of Uzbekistan is already aligned with the ISIS, not that there is no Russia-China clash of interests in Central Asia. With cadres of the actual ISIS moving into Af-Pak, the ISK would merge into ISIS. That there will be certain amount of cooperation between ISIS and Taliban in Af-Pak cannot be ruled out – same as was happening in Iraq-Syria between ISIS and Al Qaeda.
China and Pakistan would want that to oust the US-NATO from the region but US having spent more than $117 billion in Afghanistan since 2002 is not about to let go. The West would want that to curb Chinese-Russian influence in the region.
Russia certainly does not want ISIS-Taliban entering Central Asia but Putin certainly has not misread Pakistan, and may be playing a larger strategic game. Afghan government officials have claimed Russia has been delivering weapons to the Taliban, allegations that have been rejected by Russian officials. Whether Pashtunistan comes up or not only time will tell, with opposing parties in the ‘Great Game' wanting this new entity as a subset of Afghanistan or Pakistan, but logically the uptick in violence will affect China's OBOR and CPEC.
Lt Gen Prakash Katochis a former Lt Gen Special Forces, Army
Log in to leave a comment
Share post:
Popular
thenorthlines.com is a leading digital platform covering and disseminating the news, views and allied information on evolving public policies and responses pertaining to Indian subcontinent and its neighbourhood with a particular focus on the north India region.
© 2024 Northlines. All Rights Reserved.

Title: Afghanistan, Pakistan, and the ‘Good Taliban’ – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
Pakistan believes Afghanistan is harboring terrorists that conduct cross-border attacks; Kabul says the same.
Pakistani soldiers check the identity of citizens returning from Afghanistan at the border town of Chaman, Pakistan (March 7, 2017).
On March 7 and 8, Islamabad reopened its western border with Afghanistan at the Torkham and Chaman crossings. Prior to that, the border had been closed for 18 days, Pakistan’s response to terrorist attacks believed to have been planned in Afghanistan. The decision to provide a two day window was made to allow nationals of both countries who have valid visas to return home. But no trade or American and NATO forces cargo was allowed to pass.
On March 9, the border closed again, part of Pakistan’s strategy to prevent further terrorist attacks.
Even the brief opening earlier this week came only after pressure from the Afghan government. On March 4, Dr. Omar Zakhilwal, the Afghan ambassador to Pakistan, wrote on his social media account: “Today in my conversation with Mr. Sartaj Aziz, Advisor to the Prime Minister on Foreign Affairs, I conveyed to him that if in the next couple of days an opening was not allowed for the return of the stranded visitors I would ask my government to provide chartered flights to lift them.”
On the night of March 5, a day prior to the decision to temporarily open the border, three Pakistan Army check posts were ambushed in Mohmand Agency in Pakistan’s Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA).
A Pakistan Army spokesman confirmed the death of five soldiers in the attack. The outlawed Pakistani militant outfit Jamaat-ul-Ahrar (JuA), a splinter group of Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), took credit for the attack and claimed the assault was part of their newly announced offensive.
On February 8, JuA kicked off Operation Ghazi, named after the deceased leader of Islamabad’s famous Red Mosque, Mulana Abdur Rasheed Ghazi, who was killed in a Pakistan Army operation in 2007. The day after JuA’s announcement, the Afghan deputy head of mission was called to the Foreign Office (FO) to hear Islamabad’s concerns over the incident.
“The Afghan Government was urged to thoroughly investigate the incidents and take firm action against the terrorists operating from its soil to prevent recurrence of such incidents,” the FO statement read.
Tensions between the neighboring countries have only mounted since then, after double suicide bombings in Pakistan’s two biggest provinces, Punjab and Sindh.
On February 13, more than a dozen people, including Deputy Inspector General Traffic Police Captain (retd.) Ahmed Mubeen and Senior Superintendent of Police Zahid Ikram Gondal, were killed in a suicide bombing near Punjab Assembly in Lahore.
Few people knew that Mubeen played a key role in combating sectarian terrorism in Balochistan. He was part of some very top-secret and high profile intelligence-driven operations in the province and had long been on the militants’ hit list.
During a presser on February 17, Punjab Chief Minister Shehbaz Sharif disclosed that police had arrested a facilitator of the suicide bomber.
The suspect, Anwar-ul-Haq from Bajur Agency in FATA, had visited Afghanistan 15 to 20 times. The outlawed Jamaat-ul-Ahrar claimed the responsibility for the deadly blast. Anwar-ul-Haq allegedly conceded that he was also a member of JuA.
Anwar-ul-Haq also disclosed in his confessional video that “the suicide bomber was an Afghan national and a resident of Kunnar province.”
Pakistani authorities believe that the chief of JuA, Omar Khalid Khorasani, ran the show while enjoying a safe haven in Afghanistan. He was reported killed in a July 2016 U.S. airstrike in Afghanistan’s Nangarhar Province.
On February 16, three days after the attack in Lahore, a bomb blast ripped through the most revered Sufi shrine of Lal Shahbaz Qalandar at Sehwan, Sindh, killing at least 88 devotees and leaving scores injured. The inspector general of Sindh Police, A.D.Khawaja, said the suspected suicide bomber was an Afghan national identified through CCTV footage from cameras installed at the entrance of the shrine.
On the same day, the spokesman of Pakistan armed forces, Major General Asif Ghafoor, announced the closure of the Pakistan-Afghanistan border. In an unprecedented move, Afghan Embassy officials were called into the Army’s General Headquarters (GHQ) and given a list of 76 suspected terrorists hiding in Afghanistan.
The Pakistan Army high command demanded Afghan officials take immediate action and hand over the more than three dozen suspects. Moreover, the Army chief announced Operation Radd-ul-Fasad (elimination of discord) on February 22.
“The weather has changed and militant organizations also want to change this perception that their back has been broken by Operation Zarb-e-Azb. Therefore, they have escalated their attacks or have been asked to do so,” said Rahimullah Yousafzai, a seasoned Pakistani journalist and analyst.
The powerful faction of Mehsud Taliban, led by Khan Said Sajna, has joined hands with the Mullah Fazlullah led-TTP. In 2015, Jamaat-ul-Ahrar, was also reported to have merged with the TTP.
As senior Afghan journalist and correspondent ofNewsweekmagazine, Sami Yousafzai, disclosed, “This year on January 20, different factions of TTP met in Afghanistan where they decided to reunite and regroup to launch terror strikes in Pakistan.”
“They have this realization that it is the only hope of their survival after Operation Zarb-e-Azb and for that purpose they are taking support of clerics to issuefatwas[religious decrees],” he added.
Pakistani intelligence sources claim that Operation Zarb-e-Azb dismantled the support base of the terror network, forcing them to use Afghan suicide bombers and handlers from far flung areas.
For last few years, Pakistan has blamed its Islamic neighbor for fueling terrorism in the country. Even before the February attacks, the footprints of some terror plots were found in Afghanistan. Last year’s botched attack during Eid al-Azha prayers in Shikarpur, Pakistan was the prime example.
On September 13, 2016, locals spotted two suicide bombers sitting among the worshipers gathered for Eid prayers at an Eidgah in Shikarpur district of Sindh. When prayer organizers and volunteers rushed toward them, the two attempted to escape. During the scuffle, police gunned down one suicide bomber and the other, Usman, was taken into custody.
A Joint Interrogation Team (JIT) comprising representatives of intelligence agencies, the counterterrorism department, and police was constituted to probe the matter. Usman revealed before the JIT that he resided in the Ghani Khel area of Nangarhar, Afghanistan and his father, Reham Gul or  Rehman Gul of the TTP, had been killed in a drone strike inside Afghanistan some 18 months back. His brother, Ali alias Sajjad, was affiliated with the TTP as well. Ali wanted Usman to carry out a suicide attack.
During May 2016, when Usman arrived home for vacation from his seminary located in Nangarhar, Ali asked him to come to theBaithak(local jargon used to refer to the drawing room) where two men namely Abdullah Brohi and the second suicide bomber, Abdul Rehman, were present. Ali told Usman to go along with Abdullah Brohi and carry out the suicide attack according to Brohi’s instructions. His brother didn’t allow Usman to meet his mother and the three of them left for the bus stop.
They began their journey at dawn and arrived near the Chaman border of Pakistan in the evening. After spending the night in a hotel they crossed the border early in the morning on foot. After entering Pakistan, they traveled on motorbikes, initially to Chaman city and then by sunset they arrived at Wadh, a remote area of Khuzdar, Balochistan. They spent more than three months in a house in the same vicinity until they departed on September 12 for their target in Shikarpur, where Usman was caught.
The narrative of terrorists crossing the AfPak border to commit suicide bombings in Pakistan turned deadly in the successful attacks of February 2017. Islamabad decided to take matters into its own hands.
The fractured relations between Islamabad and Kabul took a nosedive when the Pakistan Army pounded the border on February 17. On the same day, Pakistan’s Chief of Army Staff (COAS) General Qamar Javed Bajwa telephoned U.S. General John Nicholson, Resolute Support Mission (RSM) commander in Afghanistan. According to Inter Services Public Relations (ISPR), the media wing of the armed forces, Bajwa expressed his concerns over continued acts of terrorism in Pakistan coordinated with impunity from Afghanistan. “COAS asked Commander RSM to play his role in disconnecting this planning, direction, coordination, and financial support,” ISPR stated.
The Pakistan Army’s cross-border shelling targeted Lal Pur in Nangarhar province, Afghanistan. It was considered the headquarter of JuA in Afghanistan. People from Pakistan’s northwestern province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KPK), used to visit Lal Pur to pay extortion and appear before JuA’s Sharia court. Pakistan Tele Communication Limited (PTCL) wireless phones had connectivity in the area and militants used this communication line to threaten the people of Peshawar and adjoining areas.
Pakistan accuses Afghanistan of supporting TTP and JuA; similarly, Kabul alleges Islamabad harbors the Afghan Taliban and Haqqani Network. It’s a telling fact that neither the Haqqanis nor the Afghan Taliban target Pakistan, nor do TTP or JuA carry out any attacks inside Afghanistan.
Is there any Afghan institutional backing to anti-Pakistan militant groups or not? Keeping the recent conflicts in mind, this is the point of contention between two countries.
“The fact of the matter is that they are operating from a territory where there is no writ of the Afghan government,” explained Sami Yousafzai.
Others aren’t so willing to give Kabul a pass. “Initially, Pakistan was accused of differentiating between militants as good and bad, but now it seems that Afghanistan is following the same precedent,” argued Rahimullah Yousafzai. “Afghan security forces are capable enough to act against TTP and JuA. They have border security forces guarding its frontier, moreover, [a] U.S. drone [strike] is the answer for such excuses.”
Whether sanctioned by Kabul or not, the top leadership of militant outfits like al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), TTP, JuA are enjoying safe heavens in Afghanistan.
The 9/11 of Pakistan, the attack on the Army Public School (APS) in December 2014 at Peshawar, was orchestrated by Khalifa Mansoor of the Pakistani Taliban, who was monitoring the situation sitting in Afghanistan. Telephone calls from Afghanistan, communicating between the handlers and suicide attackers inside the school, were intercepted.
After the attack, then-Army Chief General Raheel Sharif, along with the director general of Inter Services Intelligence (ISI) at the time, Lt. Gen. Rizwan Akhtar, flew to Kabul, where they met with President Ashraf Ghani. Sharif and Akhtar presented evidence about militants posing a great threat to Pakistan while enjoying safe sanctuaries on Afghan soil.
The Pakistani security establishment also blames the Indian external intelligence agency, Research & Analysis Wing (RAW), and Afghan National Directorate of Security (NDS) for creating unrest in the southern province of Balochistan. The Pakistani authorities believe that the Afghan Border Police chief of Qandhar province, Raziq Achakzai, is supporting Baloch separatists at the behest of RAW and NDS. Raziq has reportedly survived more than 100 attacks.
The growing influence of Islamic State (ISIS) is the latest concern for Islamabad. After receiving a huge blow in Syria and Iraq, Islamic State fighters started focusing on Khorasan (region comprised of parts of Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Iran). The Khorasan branch of the Islamic State (known as ISKP) was formed in Afghanistan in January 2015, headed by a former TTP commander.
Various groups have since established contacts with ISKP, including the group involved in the massacre of Ismaili community members in May 2015.
Last month in an interview with the United States Combating Terrorism Center (CTC), Commander U.S. Forces in Afghanistan General John W. Nicholson noted, “The Islamic State, the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU), and Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) have also formed a loose configuration. So we see these alliances of convenience or where they have complementary goals come together, and this is one of our big concerns.”
The Islamic State continues to take credit for deadly strikes across Pakistan, including the Sehwan bombing where close to 100 innocent people, including children and women, lost their lives.
Though Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs) busted an ISKP network in Pakistan last September, the group is still posing a potent threat as they are using local militants to achieve their targets. ISKP, like JuA and TTP has found a haven in Afghanistan’s Nangarhar province.
A review of recent events suggests that Kabul and Islamabad are locked in a tit-for-tat game. Whenever there is an attack in Afghanistan, the Pakistani nation also bears the brunt of terrorism.
Worse, tensions have risen to a point where dialogue is all but nonexistent. Pak-Afghan bilateral relations were jolted when the Afghan president turned down Islamabad’s request to participate in last year’s SAARC Summit. Then again, Ghani missed an opportunity to attend last week’s Economic Coordination Organization (ECO) summit in Islamabad, where the Turkish and Iranian presidents were also present. Had Ghani attended, dialogue on the sidelines could have helped break the current deadlock.
Sami Yousafzai believes that “the widening trust deficit between the two countries is paving the way for India, who has already increased the number of Visas to Afghans.” Furthermore, India is heavily investing in building infrastructure across Afghanistan.
The situation demands an immediate ban on hostile propaganda from the two neighbors while the track-one channel of diplomatic relations is still intact. Confidence Building Measures (CBMs) in both the frontiers are the only way forward to defuse the tension.
Syed Arfeen is an investigative journalist based in Karachi, Pakistan. He tweets @arfeensyyed
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: U.S. goal: Defeat ISIS affiliate in Afghanistan by year’s end – World Tribune: U.S. Politics and Culture, Geostrategy, China, North Korea, Corporate Watch, Media Watch

byWorldTribuneStaff, March 24, 2017
The United States and the Afghan army it is training plan to drive the Islamic State (ISIS) affiliate out of Afghanistan this year, U.S. military officials said.
Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISIS-K), based near the Afghan-Pakistan border, has increased its recruiting and the number of terror attacks it has carried out in Afghanistan. The group claimed responsibility for a March 8 attack on a military hospital in Kabul that killed at least 31 people.
“Our goal in 2017 is to defeat ISIS-K in Afghanistan,” U.S. Navy Capt. Bill Salvin, the spokesperson and director of public affairs for Resolute Support headquarters in Kabul, told Voice of America’s Afghan service.
NATO and the Afghan government say they have significantly reduced ISIS-K’s numbers and their territorial control from more than 10 districts to fewer than five.
“In 2016, we believed that year began with about 3,000 or so ISIS-K members in about 12 districts in southern Nangarhar,” Salvin said. “Right now, we believe there are about 600 ISIS-K members in two or three districts in southern Nangarhar.”
Still, ISIS-K has “shown an ability to conduct attacks in Kabul and elsewhere in the country,” Gen. John Nicholson, the top U.S. military commander in Afghanistan, told the Senate Armed Services Committee.
Analysts say that U.S. and Afghan officials may be overly optimistic about containing ISIS’s influence in Afghanistan.
“Ultimately, we should applaud U.S. efforts to cut down the presence of ISIS fighters in Afghanistan,” said Michael Kugelman, a South Asia specialist at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington. “But the broader problem is the ideologies of hate that keep ISIS strong. Taking aim at the ideological drivers of ISIS will be very difficult.”
“The Afghanistan-Pakistan region is a magnet for militancy, and there’s no reason why the hundreds of ISIS fighters that have been lost won’t be replaced,” Kugelman said. “There are deeper issues that need to be addressed — such as why ISIS managed to develop a presence in Afghanistan in the first place — and these are issues that can’t be addressed by the U.S. military.”
Salvin said American forces in Afghanistan, which number about 8,400, are pursuing a two-pronged approach to combating ISIS.
“The first is the unilateral U.S. counterterrorism mission called Operation Freedom, and that is where we will conduct the operations against terrorist groups like ISIS-K on our own,” he said. “The other way that we are attacking ISIS-K is in partnered operations with the Afghan special forces. They have had a great success in fighting ISIS-K, especially over the last month or so.”
Salvin predicts bolstered Afghan forces ultimately will win the fight.
“We believe that they are stronger going into 2017 than they were when they finished 2016,” Salvin said. “So while we do believe it will be a challenging year, we believe that the Afghan forces will be successful, and we will be here to be their partners.”
Afghan-Pakistan border,Capt. Bill Salvin,Islamic State Khorasan Province,Resolute Support,U.S. goal: Defeat ISIS affiliate in Afghanistan by year’s end,WorldTribune.com

U.S. goal: Defeat ISIS affiliate in Afghanistan by year’s endadded byWorld TribuneonMarch 24, 2017View all posts by World Tribune →


Want to help revive the Free Press in America?  If you enjoyed this article we’d really appreciate a quick share. Every share makes a big difference. However, the social and corporate media titans work overtime to suppress alternative news. To alert special friends and family please email the link to this article.
Thanks from World Tribunecorrespondents and staff!






Title: As Russia Flexes, US Must Not Cede Influence in Afghanistan
PoliticsNews
InternationalNews
PoliticsCommentary
SocietyNews
SocietyCommentary
PoliticsCommentary
SecurityNews
PoliticsAnalysis
SecurityCommentary
InternationalCommentary
InternationalAnalysis
SecurityAnalysis
SocietyCommentary
PoliticsNews
PoliticsNews
SecurityNews
PoliticsAnalysis
PoliticsCommentary
PoliticsCommentary
PoliticsNews
EducationNews
PoliticsNews
SocietyNews
Health CareNews
InternationalNews
PoliticsCommentary
InternationalNews
InternationalNews
PoliticsAnalysis
PoliticsAnalysis
SecurityAnalysis
EconomyPoliticsAnalysis
InternationalCommentary
Russian President Vladimir Putin, right, Afghan Ambassador to Russia Abdul Qayum Kuchi, center, and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, left, attend a ceremony at the Grand Kremlin Palace in Moscow, Russia, March 16, 2017. (Photo: Alexey Nikolsky/Sputnik/Kremlin Pool/EPA/Newscom)
Lisa Curtis/@LisaCurtisHF
Lisa Curtis analyzes America's economic, security and political relationships with India, Pakistan, Afghanistan and other nations of South Asia as a senior research fellow at The Heritage Foundation.Read her research.
Russia is seeking to gain diplomatic leverage in Afghanistan by hosting aregional meetingnext month with governments that have a stake in Kabul’s future.
The U.S. should avoid attending the meeting and instead develop its own plan for driving regional economic and political initiatives that aim to promote peaceful cooperation among Afghanistan and surrounding nations.
Russia has been trying to assert a larger role for itself in Afghanistan over the last several months, taking advantage of a perceived diplomatic vacuum in the region during the U.S. presidential transition. It hosted six-nation talks with Afghanistan, China, India, Pakistan, and Iran in February.
While Moscow has invited Washington to the upcoming talks scheduled for mid-April, the optics of the U.S. merely being a participant at a Moscow-led gathering would send a signal of diplomatic weakness in the region.
The Russians portray their interest in Afghanistan as focusing on stamping out the Islamic State, also known as ISIS, which they assert poses a threat to the broader Central Asia region. There have been reports of the Russians providing some weaponry to the Taliban, and Russian officials have said that the Taliban could be a partner in defeating ISIS in Afghanistan.
But a policy of supporting the Taliban against ISIS is short-sighted and would almost certainly backfire on Moscow.
During his Feb. 9 testimony before Congress, U.S. Afghanistan Cmdr. Gen. John Nicholson discussed Russia’s attempts to undermine the U.S. position in Afghanistan through support of the Taliban and by seeking to portray such support as necessary to defeating ISIS.
Nicholson was clear that the new Russian involvement in Afghanistan is aimed atunderminingthe U.S. and NATO.
Nicholson went on to note that Russia was creating a “false narrative” that the Taliban has been fighting ISIS in Afghanistan and that the Afghan forces have failed to do so.
In fact, the Afghan army, with support from U.S. forces, has made progress against ISIS bases in eastern Afghanistan. Nicholson also pointed out that ISIS in Afghanistan has little to do with the core group in Syria and is primarily made up of Pakistanis and Uzbeks who have rebranded themselves.
ISIS launched its South Asia branch in Afghanistan in January 2015, calling it ISIS-Khorasan (ISIS-K). Khorasan is an historical term used to describe the area encompassed by Afghanistan, parts of Pakistan, and parts of other countries in the region.
According to the Hadith (sayings attributed to the Prophet Muhammad), this region maintains a key role in establishing a global caliphate, since a major battle between Muslims and non-Muslims supposedly will take place there, heralding the apocalypse and return of the “Mahdi” (redeemer of Islam).
The U.S. must retake the diplomatic initiative in Afghanistan and lead a regional strategy that shores up the Afghan government, prevents the Taliban from gaining more territory, brings the Pakistanis into alignment with U.S. and NATO goals, uproots ISIS bases in the eastern part of the country, and helps create an environment conducive to a peace process.
It is encouraging that the Trump administration may slightly increase U.S. troop numbers in Afghanistan to enhance the U.S.-NATO train and assist mission.
But Washington must also continue to take the lead in diplomatic efforts to bring stability to the country. Otherwise, Moscow’s recent initiatives in Afghanistan will severely undermine U.S. credibility in the region.
No related posts.
Trust in the legacy media is at an all-time low.
That’s because they are out of touch, deliberately lie to the American public, and ignore conservative audiences.
By supporting The Daily Signal Institute today, you will help cut through the liberal media spin and provide honest, thorough, and responsible reporting to millions of Americans and decisionmakers in Washington.
You can counter fake news today with your gift to The Daily Signal Institute.
© 2024 The Daily Signal Media Group, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Title: Trump Seeks 1.1bn for Afghan Operations - The Daily Outlook Afghanistan
WASHINGTON - US President Donald Trump, in his  first annual budget, has requested a $1.1 billion for operations in  Afghanistan.In his annual budget draft for fiscal year 2018  worth USD1.1 trillion sent to the Congress Thursday morning, Trump said the  request included USD5.1 billion in the Overseas Contingency Operations budget  for Department of Defense to accelerate campaign to defeat ISIS and support  Operation Freedom's Sentinel in Afghanistan.“This includes USD1.1 billion for Afghanistan.”  “This request would enable DOD to pursue a comprehensive strategy to end the  threat ISIS poses to the United States,” he said.Director of the Office of Management of Budget  Mick Mulvaney said the request would enable DOD to support a comprehensive,  whole-of-Government strategy to stop ISIS from posing a threat to the United  States.He said the request would fund critical efforts  to strike ISIS targets, support partners fighting on the ground, disrupt ISIS's  external operations, and cut off its flows of financing.“The request also supports ongoing US efforts  through OFS to prevent threats to the US homeland, our allies, and interests  abroad from ISIS, al Qaeda, and their affiliated or associated groups.”He said the investment complemented additional  US support for the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces as requested on  November 10, 2016.The budget proposes USD1.1 billion for ongoing  American operations in Afghanistan and support to global counterterrorism  activities.The request also includes planning and design  of construction projects in support of Detention Operations at Guantanamo Bay,  Cuba. (Pajhwok)
Copyright ©2010www.outlookafghanistan.net - All Rights Reserved.

Title:   Will Afghanistan Become the Next Proxy War? | THEAsiaN


Tuesday 24 September 2024
By Habib Toumi FUJAIRAH: A unique edition of the Holy Quran was the most…
By Nasir Aijaz The AsiaN Representative KARACHI, SINDH, PAKISTAN: The police on Thursday September…
RIYADH: Saudi Arabia will not recognize Israel without the establishment of a Palestinian state,…
By Habib Toumi FUJAIRAH: A unique edition of the Holy Quran was the most…
By Nasir Aijaz The AsiaN Representative KARACHI, SINDH, PAKISTAN: The police on Thursday September…
RIYADH: Saudi Arabia will not recognize Israel without the establishment of a Palestinian state,…
By Habib Toumi FUJAIRAH: A unique edition of the Holy Quran was the most…
By Nasir Aijaz The AsiaN Representative KARACHI, SINDH, PAKISTAN: The police on Thursday September…
RIYADH: Saudi Arabia will not recognize Israel without the establishment of a Palestinian state,…
SEOUL: The death of the president of any country is an exceptional event, especially…
CAIRO: An annual award will celebrate the important work done by African publishers, a…
SEOUL: Asia Journalists Association (AJA) is deeply concerned about the severe toll on journalists…
CAIRO: Ashraf Aboul-Yazid combines being a novelist, a poet, a journalist, a travel writer…
By Alin Ferrer-Garganera Asia is complex and complicated.  Among the seven continents, she…
In 1990s Britain, three friends: Kathy, Ruth, and Tommy attend the quaint boarding school,…
By Habib Toumi SUWON: People fascinated by mass communication and the development of…
A controversial decision to make plastic wrapping over all checked in luggage mandatory at…
Seoul Fashion Week 2017 F/W collections have drawn to its close already; however, let’s…
Afghanistan turned into a matter of “prestige” during the War on Terror initiated by the George W. Bush administration. In other words, the “Enduring Freedom Operation” was the first indication that the USA was becoming a global hegemon. The US’ involvement in Afghanistan was unrivaled and different from the “Great Game” of the 19th century—it was to show its own national power to the world.
Russia’s Interest in Afghanistan
While the question of why the Soviet Army was sent to Afghanistan is frequently questioned by Russian thinkers, it is hard to say that there is remorse regarding the fallacy of the decision made by the USSR to intervene in Afghanistan. Russians think the USSR failed in Afghanistan because of their hasty method of intervention. It was significant for Putin to have praised the intervention in Afghanistan during his visit to see Afghan war veterans for the Russian Afghanistan strategy. It can be said that Russian interest in Afghanistan is loaded with symbolic values, and its tendency to regard Afghanistan as the place where it will once again present itself in world politics is on the rise. Undeniably, Russia regards the USA and NATO as the responsible parties for what happened in Afghanistan. Russian donation of 10,000 Kalashnikov rifles to Afghanistan immediately after NATO forces was pulled out in 2013 and its recent collaboration with Taliban to “fight against ISIS” by exchanging knowledge and intelligence are important to fully understand Russian interest in Afghanistan.
Chinese Regional Politics on the Context of “One Belt, One Road”
An 890 billion dollar budget has been allotted to the “One Belt, One Road” project with the leadership of the Chinese Ministry of Development. Through this project, China generated great anticipation and rivalry among the countries of the region. The 97 km border between China and Afghanistan has caused China to regard the developments in Afghanistan as part of its national security agenda. Afghanistan, on the one hand, thinks that China is increasing its influence in the region and that it will not be possible to attain domestic peace without the involvement of China. Particularly, the activity of Chinese companies within the Afghan infrastructure and energy sector is what increases China’s prestige in Afghanistan.
The Afghanistan Government and Taliban Peace Talks
While some wanted to establish talks with the Taliban, there were also other members who were against all such efforts at communication. The Taliban regards the USA and the Afghanistan government as the prime actors responsible for what happened in Afghanistan. In this setting, it can be said that it is futile to expect positive results from establishing talks. The fact that the US acted without a long-term strategy regarding Afghanistan is another reason preventing peace talks. As the opium trade in Afghanistan exceeds 3 billion dollars, establishing talks without determining the role Taliban will assume in the drug trade will only ensure these talks will be doomed from the start. Indeed, the political bureau of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (opened in Qatar in 2013 to execute peace talks by Taliban) was closed down after an ultimatum by the Afghanistan government. It can be speculated that peace talks with Taliban as a consequence of the United States’ will regarding the issue is devoid of reality; another example of Obama’s “optimism”.
The Taliban-ISIS Rivalry in Afghanistan
When Taliban was formed it was announced that their reason d’être was to establish an ideal Islamic society in Afghanistan. Taliban, by operating a social message and punishment system, tried to keep its public support alive. ISIS on the other hand, apart from Taliban, sets forth a relatively broader envision of the world. ISIS, by the implementation of the Caliphate, aims to obtain global political power. ISIS has become the first organization to be approved in the East of Afghanistan and the first to challenge Taliban in Afghanistan. Besides, high unemployment in Afghanistan and the pensions offered by ISIS to its militants worries Taliban of losing its social support. ISIS forbids the plantation of drugs in the areas it dominates in Afghanistan.
In a final analysis, as a weak state, Afghanistan does not have control of even 30% of its own soil. Even though its land is rich with natural resources, it is the nation’s fragile political structure that allows it to continue becoming a war zone for great powers and radical organizations. Indeed, ISIS found itself a base in Afghanistan. The prime aim of ISIS in Afghanistan is to call the attention of the rest of the world in Afghanistan and away from Iraq and Syria where IS lost its power. Despite all, Russia feels differently from the USA regarding the future of Afghanistan, especially after the Ukraine and Syria crises. And in this context, it can be said that the indecisive Afghanistan policy of the USA played for the benefit of Russia.
Namely, in 2014, even when the US Air Force conducted 13,000 sorties in Afghanistan despite all the uncertainty, the number dropped to 2000 sorties in 2016. Though radical structuring continues to take root in the region, the USA continues to make the same mistakes it did in Iraq by leaving behind a “weak state” next to radical groups. Current US P0esident Donald Trump may follow a different path regarding the future of Afghanistan than the one followed by the Obama administration. However, it is not correct to assume that the US will be successful in Afghanistan this time around. This is because similar to Obama, Trump also does not have a long-term foreign policy regarding the issue of Afghanistan. Also, within the last days of 2016, there have been a number of meetings to stabilize Afghanistan—all of which the US did not attend. In this direction, in a joint meeting conducted in Moscow by representatives from Russia, China, and Pakistan, concerns regarding the power ISIS attained in Afghanistan were voiced. After all, while Pakistan brought together authorities from Afghanistan and Taliban in the last days of 2016, no tangible result was obtained. In short, even though countries of the region reflect each other in order to maintain domestic peace in Afghanistan, time will tell whether these reflections will be enough to prevent the spread of the Iraqi and Syrian proxy wars towards Afghanistan.
PhD, International Relations - President of Strategic Outlook Institution in Turkey
View all Posts
Let’s introduce Ms. Yi (not her real name), one of…

Title: Trump seeks 1.1bn for Afghan operations – Pajhwok Afghan News
Username or Email
Password
Remember me
Lost your password?

Don't you have an account with Pajhwok Afghan News?
Click here to subscribe.
WASHINGTON (Pajhwok): US President Donald Trump, in his first annual budget, has requested a $1.1 billion for operations inloginorregistera new account.

Title: Afghanistan Partial Threat Assessment: Nowruz Update | Institute for the Study of War
Afghanistan Partial Threat Assessment: November 23, 2016 - March 15, 2017
KT:The U.S. faces pressure from Russia as well as militant groups that seek to undermine the U.S. and NATO missions in Afghanistan during spring and summer 2017. The ANSF faces readiness gaps that will expose multiple provincial capitals to recurrent attacks by the Taliban and escalating attacks in Kabul by multiple groups, including ISIS.These threats will compound the difficulty the ANSF already faces in holding territory recaptured from Taliban forces in 2016.Russia meanwhile will attempt to thwart the U.S. and NATO by brokering peace talks with the Taliban that increasingly incorporate competing international power centers, such as China and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO).
The Taliban set conditions during the winter phase of its yearlong campaign, Operation Omari, to target provincial capitals during its upcoming spring 2017 offensive.Taliban militants attacked security posts and district centers near the provincial capitals of Helmand, Kunduz, and Uruzgan provinces over the reporting period, indicating their intent to attack these cities during their upcoming spring 2017 offensive when they announce it in April 2017. Taliban militants had also launched simultaneous attacks on the same three cities, as well as the provincial capital of Farah Province, in October 2016. Taliban militants attacked four district centers in Helmand in January and February 2017 to weaken security forces and gain territory to stage attacks against Lashkar Gah city. Taliban militants also launched several attacks against security posts on the outskirts of Tarin Kot city, the provincial capital of Uruzgan province in January and February. Taliban militants also attacked ANA bases in Baghlan-e Jadid District in Baghlan Province in March 2017 in an attempt to gain control of the ground line of communication (GLOC) that the ANSF uses to send reinforcements to Kunduz City from Kabul. These attacks indicate that the Taliban intends to launch ground campaigns against Lashkar Gah, Tarin Kot, and Kunduz cities during the upcoming spring offensive.
ISIS Wilayat Khorasan took advantage of ungoverned and remote spaces in northwest Afghanistan to expand its territory.ISIS expanded beyond its stronghold in Nangarhar province in eastern Afghanistan and established abaseto receive and train foreign fighters in northwest Afghanistan. Uzbek militants fighting with ISIS in Jowzjan province exertedsocial controlby destroying Sufi shrines, burning civilian homes, and erecting prisons in early 2017. ISISdeployedrecruiters from Zabul province to set up a training camp in Nimroz province in early 2017. ISIS will prioritize expanding its control in Afghanistan as it faces the loss of its capital cities in Syria and Iraq in 2017. ISIS will also attack Afghan state institutions directly. ISIS launched a complexattackagainst the ANSF national military hospital in Kabul on March 8, 2017. The attack demonstrated an increase in capability, insider access, and the transfer of techniques from other groups in the area or from ISIS’s core terrain.
ANSF force regeneration is not on track to match the Taliban’s spring offensives.The ANSF failed to secure large swaths of territory from Taliban militants during the winter phase of its own counter-offensive campaign, Operation Shafaq. The majority of itsholding forcesare insufficiently trained and under-equipped, requiring additional support from Afghan Special Security Forces. Taliban militants targeted southern and northern districts during the winter phase of Operation Omari while the ANSF conducted anti-ISIS operations in the East. The ANSF continues to struggle with high casualties and attrition despite ongoing U.S.-led forceregenerationefforts.Recruitmentgenerally keeps pace with these losses, but it is insufficient to build the force necessary to clear and hold territory from Taliban militants. The Afghan Air Force’s (AAF) capabilities are steadily increasing, but its airframes are in “dire condition” due to high operational tempo and compromised helicopter maintenance due tosanctionson Russian equipment. Russia will attempt to leverage this weakness to insert itself in Afghanistan’s security sector on its own terms. The Taliban will likely capitalize on the ANSF’s readiness gaps by launching simultaneous offensives in separate regions during its spring offensive in order to stretch and weaken the ANSF to a breaking point.
Rising tensions in the National Unity Government will allow the Taliban and extremist networks to exploit security gaps.First Vice President Abdul Rashid Dostum undermined the government by refusing to comply with Afghan law or cooperate with judicial institutions following accusations that he assaulted the former Jowzjan Governor in November 2016. ISIS and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) exploited security gaps caused by the absence or fracturing of Dostum’smilitiain Jowzjan while it protected him in Kabul. Meanwhile, Dostum’s rival, Balkh Provincial Governor Mohammad Atta Noor, seeks to supplant fellow Tajik and Jamiat party member CEO Abdullah Abdullah’s influence in the National Unity Government. President Ghani benefits from Atta’s efforts to undermine Abdullah, his rival. Atta is currently holding privatetalkswith President Ghani, either to join the central government or possibly set up a bid for the 2019 Afghan presidential elections. The National Unity Government will lose its ability to prevent insurgent and Salafi-jihadi groups from reconstituting as it fractures along powerbrokers and warlords’ competing interests. The National Unity Government will also become increasingly willing to entertain peace talks with the Taliban brokered by Russia, which could accelerate bold posturing and independent action by former Northern Alliance Warlords within the government.
Russia is undermining the U.S. and NATO by positioning itself as the key interlocutor of peace talks with the Taliban.General Nicholsonexpressedconcern over the “malign influence” of Russia, Iran, and Pakistan and their support of terrorist groups inside Afghanistan in a press conference on December 2, 2016. He stated that the Russian narrative that Taliban militants are countering ISIS in Afghanistan isfalse, and further undermines the U.S. missions in Afghanistan. Russiaplansto discuss Afghan peace talks with representatives from Iran, China, Pakistan, India, and Afghanistan in Moscow in April 2017, following similar meetings in December 2016, February 2017, and March 2017. Russia is courting Afghangovernmentofficialsto legitimize itself as a dominant regional actor in the Afghan conflict. Russia may use economic incentives, such asrestoringSoviet-era infrastructure, to strengthen its ties with the Afghan government. Russia’s continued support for the Taliban will thwart the U.S. and NATO missions in Afghanistan, weaken the Afghan government, and position Russia to use peace talks in Afghanistan to assert its own legitimacy as a guarantor of international order. Russia will use its increasing influence in Afghanistan to weaken and ultimately oust NATO from Afghanistan.
Current levels of U.S. support to the ANSF will fail to secure Afghanistan against militant groups and prevent Russia’s efforts to undermine NATO in Afghanistan.The Taliban can modulate violence in Afghanistan during the fighting season and therefore exert leverage over the Afghan state, the U.S. and NATO. U.S. Forces-Afghanistan (USFOR-A)optimizedits force structure in order to mitigate the drawdown from 9,800 to 8,448 troops during the winter fighting season, but the force is still inadequate to prepare the ANSF to secure the country. U.S. leadersattestthat the U.S. must increase itstroop levelsto increase the ANSF’scapacitythrough the train, advise, and assist (TAA) mission. The U.S. has a national security interest in preventing Salafi-Jihadist groups, including ISIS and al-Qaeda, from reconstituting in Afghanistan.

Correction: ISW previously listed that Taliban militants attacked Talah wa Barfak District in Baghlan Province in March 2017. It has since been corrected to state Taliban militants attacked ANA bases in Baghlan-e Jadid District in March 2017 as of 22 MAR 2017.

Title: Afghanistan: a headless army fights badly - Daily Times
Daily Times
Your right to knowTuesday, September 24, 2024
Op-Ed

Musa Khan Jalalzai
March 6, 2017

In 2017, the challenges of Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) may possibly be their wide-ranging differences with the US army on its long-term negligence and reluctance to adorn it with modern weapons. Afghans complain that the US army often stopped attempts of arming Afghan army by some friendly states, and even bombed its units on many occasions. The ANA leadership, political parties, and parliamentarians have often expressed concern against the under-equipment campaign of US and NATO military leadership to keep Afghan army dependent on their financial and military resources for a long time. They say that international military commanders never shared their military plans with the Afghan Security Forces (ANSF) or at least share plans ahead of the operation fearing that the ANSF might tip off the insurgents. They never tried to provide better training to Afghan soldiers and officers, or fit the NDS to the fight against insurgents during the last 15 years war in Afghanistan. At the ANA squad, company and platoon levels, tactical training remains inconsistent in all units, and its leadership is unable to move its forces freely across the country. Cooperation between US army, NATO, ANA and civilian leadership is still a bigger challenge to its existence. This resentment of the US commanders towards the ANA forces raised many questions including complaints that the ANA generals are being treated by US and NATO commanders as inferiors at best and enemies at worst.
Deputy Director of research at the Centre for Conflict and Peace Studies (CAPS), Dr. Zubair Popalzai in his recent paper (Insider Attacks: Some Perspectives of the Afghan Security Forces) noted the complaints of Afghan military and police officers that they were not even provided the same quality of medical treatment and care in the US-run hospitals, and even not being airlifted when wounded in the battlefield. “They have, instead, shown preference for treatment in Afghan National army hospitals where they say the chances of their limbs getting amputated are low” Dr. Zubair Popalzai also noted resentment of Afghan Security Forces towards NATO and US forces: “Resentment on the Afghan side range from issues related to honour and dignity such as insult, profanity and generally being vulgar to ANSF members, publicly searching and disarming ANSF members when they enter coalition military bases, coalition convoys not allowing traffic including ANSF vehicles to pass while the former are using the road to other such cultural issues as indecent exposure while urinating in public or urinating in stream water, arrogance, breaking doors before someone can answer, unnecessarily shooting animals spatially barking dogs even when they are tied……”.
The attitude of the Unity Government is also understandable form the fact that President Ghani and his Chief Executive Mr. Abdullah never attempted to equip and adorn ANA with modern weapons, or request the United States and its NATO allies for sophisticated weapons to make the operational mechanism of the army more effective against the unending insurgency in the country. Afghan President has also been reluctant to support his army against Daesh terrorist group and Taliban, and never changed his soft-corner towards Taliban and his colleague war criminals. The President’s resentment towards the Afghan armed forces is evident from the complaints raised by parliamentarians and civil society that his Ministries, parliamentarians, governors and elements with the Defence and Interior Ministries were arming Taliban and Daesh forces across the country. These questions were also raised by Deputy Speaker of Afghan Parliament, Zahir Qadir who openly accused national security advisor, Mr. Hanif Atmar of providing arms and financial assistance to Islamic States in 2016.
The growing military and political influence of Daesh in Afghanistan, and Taliban’s influence in the south means that the government and its allies have failed to bring stability to Afghanistan. On 01 Mach 2017, Taliban attacked Afghan capital, in which military recruitment centre was targeted. Taliban claimed that several people were killed and wounded. In an attack Taliban targeted a unit intelligence office. Last week, a Pandora’s Box opened when Afghan Security Forces besieged the house of Vice President Dostum due to his criticism of the wrongly designed ethnic strategy of the unity government. In October 2016, a number of Afghan law makers also accused President Ghani and his Defence Ministry for supporting terrorist organisations like ISIS and Taliban. They alleged that military commanders were providing arms, financial assistance and sanctuaries to terrorist groups, and transported their suicide bombers to their destinations. Miss Fatima Aziz, an MP from the Kunduz province, accused some police and military commanders for facilitating Taliban against ANA positions. “All Afghan officials in the Kunduz province, including the ANA, police and local government officials in cooperation with the people from central government, handed the city to the Taliban,” said Fatima Aziz.
Last week, Afghan military commanders in Helmand province admitted that their colleagues were selling weapons to Taliban. Afghan National army (ANA) spokesman said that the sellers of heavy weapons were their military commanders who had open access to weapon depots. Since 2015, Afghan soldiers and police officers faced many challenges including the delay of their salaries, logistic and air support in the battlefield. The issues of insider attacks, weapon smuggling, child sexual abuse and desertion badly affected the image of ANA leadership in the eyes of civil society. Weapons purveyance to enemy to feed their children and taking arms against their own officers in cities and towns are stories that deeply affected the unity of their command and loyalty to the state. In February 2016, the ANA arrested and disarmed 30 cops with alleged Taliban ties, including the police chief of Helmand’s Sangin district. Drug trafficking is another serious challenge where, according to the Russian Narcotics Agency report, almost a third of the ANA officers turned to drug trafficking. Army generals and officers have been deeply involved in drug trafficking and kidnapping for ransom during the last ten years. An Afghan parliament told this scribe that some states provide weapons to Daesh terrorist group. The access of this terrorist group to American weapons is also matter of great concern. On 31 August 2016, Bakhtar News Agency reported Pentagon admitted the access of Islamic State to the US army weapons in Afghanistan.

The writer is author of Fixing EU Intelligence Crisis, can be reached at zai.musakhan222@gmail.com




More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category

HomeLead StoriesLatest NewsEditor’s Picks
CultureLife & StyleFeaturedVideos
EditorialsOP-EDSCommentaryAdvertise
CartoonsLettersBlogsPrivacy Policy
ContactCompany’s FinancialsInvestor InformationTerms & Conditions
FacebookTwitterInstagramYoutube
Copyright © 2024 Daily TimesWebsite Developed ByDaily Times Developers

Title: Economic Pressure of Pakistan against NATO and Afghanistan should stop - New Delhi Times - India's Only International Newspaper - Empowering Global Vision, Empathizing with India

Pakistan has opened its border with Afghanistan for just 48 hours today for public. It is late for those who lost over two weeks of their lives stranded at the border, or who depend on regular and authorised cross-border passage. In addition, Pakistan is not letting transfer of containerized cargo which is now rising at the seaport in Karachi on the Arabian Sea and earning demurrage custodies.
The containerized cargos are the important for the economy of Afghanistan, which is in interior of and reliant on Pakistan’s ports. Pakistan must open its border with Afghanistan to legitimate relocation and line of work.Pakistan emphasises that it shut the border because of terrorist attacks arising from Afghanistan.
But then given that terrorists can practice minor undercover trails well-known as ratlines through the mountains between Pakistan and Afghanistan, and bribe Pakistani border safeguards beside the way, Pakistan’s rational gets false.
Pakistan had cut off its NATO deliveries to Afghanistan for political influence. NATO and the ANSF perhaps come to an end to get a huge percentage of materials through Pakistan, so the border closing puts a serious tension on Afghan processes against Pakistan-supported Taliban and Islamic State and other terrorists.

This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.AcceptRead More
You must belogged into post a comment.

Title: Pakistan's Economic Pressure Against NATO And Afghanistan Must Stop
Pakistan isopening its borderwith Afghanistan for just48 hoursstarting today, and only for people. This is too little too late for those who lostover two weeksof their lives stranded at the border, or who depend on regular and legal cross-border transit. In addition,Pakistan is not allowing transit of containerized cargothat is nowpiling upat the seaport in Karachi on the Arabian Sea and incurring demurrage charges. That containerized cargo is the economic life-blood of Afghanistan, which is landlocked and dependent on Pakistan’s ports.Pakistan should immediately open its border with Afghanistan to legitimate migration and trade.

Afghan nationals wait to cross the border into Afghanistan from Pakistan at the Torkham Border Post... [+]in Pakistan's Khyber Agency on March 7, 2017. The Pakistan-Afghan border at Torkham and Chaman in Balochistan province has been re-opened for two days to facilitate Afghan nationals who want to return to their country. A spike in tensions led to the border being closed following a spate of attacks in Pakistan, the deadliest of which was a suicide attack at a crowded Sufi shrine in Pakistan's Sindh province which killed 90 people, and which was claimed by the Islamic State (IS) group. QAZI RAUF/AFP/Getty Images

Pakistanclaimsthat it closed the border due to terrorist attacks emanating from Afghanistan. But given that terrorists can use small clandestine trails known asratlinesthrough the mountains between Pakistan and Afghanistan, and bribe Pakistani border guards along the way, Pakistan’s reasoning rings false. The reality is thatPakistan’s border is porous to terrorists, but not to containerized cargo.SoPakistan is not closing the border to stop terrorism, but rather to put economic pressure on Afghanistan through trade sanctions by another name.
Pakistan’s continued border closing to legitimate trade has even given breathing space to terrorism over the past two weeks, because it restricts critical Afghan National Security Force (ANSF) and NATO shipments for counter-terrorism and stability operations. In 2010, at the height of NATO involvement in Afghanistan, NATO depended on Pakistani routes for about70%of its requirements. In2010and2011, Pakistancut off NATO suppliesto Afghanistan for political leverage. NATO and the ANSF probably continue to get a large percentage of supplies through Pakistan, so the border closure puts a severe strain on Afghan operations against Pakistan-supportedTaliban,Haqqani Network,Islamic State, and other terrorists.

A Pakistani border security official (L) checks the travel documents of an Afghan national carrying... [+]his mother on his back before crossing the border into Afghanistan from Pakistan at the Torkham Border Post in Pakistan's Khyber Agency on March 7, 2017. QAZI RAUF/AFP/Getty Images

There are plenty of Pakistanis who can lend these terrorists support. A 2015 Pew Survey found that 9% of Pakistanis approve ofIslamic State. Another Pew Survey in 2014 found that 8% of Pakistanis approve of theTaliban, and 12% approve ofAl Qaeda. Pakistan’s military, which has a hand in supporting these terrorists, is the most popular institution in Pakistan at 87% approval. AsNoman Ansari, the editor-in-chief of youth-oriented IGN Pakistan opined in 2015,
We need to take charge of what we teach in our schools.... We need to counter the extremist narrative in a meaningful way. As I said before, you can’t bomb an ideology. Our belief system begs for reformation at its core, before it is too late.”
We must stop believing Pakistan’sliesabout its border closing, and admit that Pakistan is trying toeconomically pressureAfghanistan and NATO. This is consistent with its general attempts torestricttrade between its adversary India, and Afghanistan.Pakistan and its ally and largest trade partner China are aggressive, and see democratic countries like the U.S., India, and Afghanistan as strategic competitors.As a result, China’s One Belt One Road (OBOR) has largely sidelinedIndiaand Afghanistan in favor of Pakistan.
India is a key potential trading partner for Afghanistan, and increased trade between the two democracies could strengthen India and increase Afghanistan’s economic independence from Pakistan. But Pakistan would prefer Afghanistan to be an economic and diplomatic dependency --strategic depthfor its conflict with India.

An Afghan national drags a stretcher carrying a patient before crossing the border into Afghanistan... [+]from Pakistan at the Torkham Border Post in Pakistan's Khyber Agency on March 7, 2017. QAZI RAUF/AFP/Getty Images

Fixing violence, religious extremism, terrorism, and authoritarianism in Pakistan and Afghanistan is a tall order. It will not be easy. But it starts with the U.S. and Europe recognizing that we need to oppose, publicly and vigorously, the corrupt alliance ofChina,Pakistan, and terrorists in South Asia. We need to recognize that Pakistan is usingduplicityto veil its authoritarian and terrorist tactics. From this understanding should flow international measures of the strongest type against China and Pakistan to counter authoritarian violence and state-sponsored terrorism in South Asia.




Title: Pakistan's Economic Pressure Against NATO And Afghanistan Must Stop
Pakistan isopening its borderwith Afghanistan for just48 hoursstarting today, and only for people. This is too little too late for those who lostover two weeksof their lives stranded at the border, or who depend on regular and legal cross-border transit. In addition,Pakistan is not allowing transit of containerized cargothat is nowpiling upat the seaport in Karachi on the Arabian Sea and incurring demurrage charges. That containerized cargo is the economic life-blood of Afghanistan, which is landlocked and dependent on Pakistan’s ports.Pakistan should immediately open its border with Afghanistan to legitimate migration and trade.

Afghan nationals wait to cross the border into Afghanistan from Pakistan at the Torkham Border Post... [+]in Pakistan's Khyber Agency on March 7, 2017. The Pakistan-Afghan border at Torkham and Chaman in Balochistan province has been re-opened for two days to facilitate Afghan nationals who want to return to their country. A spike in tensions led to the border being closed following a spate of attacks in Pakistan, the deadliest of which was a suicide attack at a crowded Sufi shrine in Pakistan's Sindh province which killed 90 people, and which was claimed by the Islamic State (IS) group. QAZI RAUF/AFP/Getty Images

Pakistanclaimsthat it closed the border due to terrorist attacks emanating from Afghanistan. But given that terrorists can use small clandestine trails known asratlinesthrough the mountains between Pakistan and Afghanistan, and bribe Pakistani border guards along the way, Pakistan’s reasoning rings false. The reality is thatPakistan’s border is porous to terrorists, but not to containerized cargo.SoPakistan is not closing the border to stop terrorism, but rather to put economic pressure on Afghanistan through trade sanctions by another name.
Pakistan’s continued border closing to legitimate trade has even given breathing space to terrorism over the past two weeks, because it restricts critical Afghan National Security Force (ANSF) and NATO shipments for counter-terrorism and stability operations. In 2010, at the height of NATO involvement in Afghanistan, NATO depended on Pakistani routes for about70%of its requirements. In2010and2011, Pakistancut off NATO suppliesto Afghanistan for political leverage. NATO and the ANSF probably continue to get a large percentage of supplies through Pakistan, so the border closure puts a severe strain on Afghan operations against Pakistan-supportedTaliban,Haqqani Network,Islamic State, and other terrorists.

A Pakistani border security official (L) checks the travel documents of an Afghan national carrying... [+]his mother on his back before crossing the border into Afghanistan from Pakistan at the Torkham Border Post in Pakistan's Khyber Agency on March 7, 2017. QAZI RAUF/AFP/Getty Images

There are plenty of Pakistanis who can lend these terrorists support. A 2015 Pew Survey found that 9% of Pakistanis approve ofIslamic State. Another Pew Survey in 2014 found that 8% of Pakistanis approve of theTaliban, and 12% approve ofAl Qaeda. Pakistan’s military, which has a hand in supporting these terrorists, is the most popular institution in Pakistan at 87% approval. AsNoman Ansari, the editor-in-chief of youth-oriented IGN Pakistan opined in 2015,
We need to take charge of what we teach in our schools.... We need to counter the extremist narrative in a meaningful way. As I said before, you can’t bomb an ideology. Our belief system begs for reformation at its core, before it is too late.”
We must stop believing Pakistan’sliesabout its border closing, and admit that Pakistan is trying toeconomically pressureAfghanistan and NATO. This is consistent with its general attempts torestricttrade between its adversary India, and Afghanistan.Pakistan and its ally and largest trade partner China are aggressive, and see democratic countries like the U.S., India, and Afghanistan as strategic competitors.As a result, China’s One Belt One Road (OBOR) has largely sidelinedIndiaand Afghanistan in favor of Pakistan.
India is a key potential trading partner for Afghanistan, and increased trade between the two democracies could strengthen India and increase Afghanistan’s economic independence from Pakistan. But Pakistan would prefer Afghanistan to be an economic and diplomatic dependency --strategic depthfor its conflict with India.

An Afghan national drags a stretcher carrying a patient before crossing the border into Afghanistan... [+]from Pakistan at the Torkham Border Post in Pakistan's Khyber Agency on March 7, 2017. QAZI RAUF/AFP/Getty Images

Fixing violence, religious extremism, terrorism, and authoritarianism in Pakistan and Afghanistan is a tall order. It will not be easy. But it starts with the U.S. and Europe recognizing that we need to oppose, publicly and vigorously, the corrupt alliance ofChina,Pakistan, and terrorists in South Asia. We need to recognize that Pakistan is usingduplicityto veil its authoritarian and terrorist tactics. From this understanding should flow international measures of the strongest type against China and Pakistan to counter authoritarian violence and state-sponsored terrorism in South Asia.




Title: dailykashmirimages.com


Title: dailykashmirimages.com


Title: Business News Today: Read Latest Business news, India Business News Live, Share Market & Economy News | The Economic Times
Get only relevant updates on WhatsApp. No Spam.
Learn from the top business gurus.
September 23
Monthly instalment schemes by jewellers are sustaining gold demand despite high prices. Tanishq, Reliance Jewels, and Senco Gold have seen s...
Vodafone Idea has been directed to pay Rs 50,000 in compensation to a senior citizen for mental harassment due to abrupt disconnection of hi...
Quick commerce is driving growth in grocery shopping, with 31% of Indian shoppers using it for core needs and 39% for top-ups, according to ...
Logicap Management and Mitsubishi Estate have formed a joint venture to develop industrial and logistics facilities in India. The partnershi...
Brick-and-mortar apparel retail chains are projected to grow by 8-10% this fiscal year, driven by higher demand from normal monsoon, easing ...
The expo and the conference combined represent the most sought-after event of the Oil & Gas industry that is held every year to bring the in...
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Java Programming with ChatGPT: Learn using Generative AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Basics of Generative AI : Unveiling Tomorrow's Innovations
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Generative AI for Dynamic Java Web Applications with ChatGPT
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Mastering C++ Fundamentals with Generative AI: A Hands-On
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Master in Python Language Quickly Using the ChatGPT Open AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Zero to Hero in Microsoft Excel: Complete Excel guide 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Stock Trading
Market 101: An Insight into Trendlines and Momentum
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Markets 102: Mastering Sentiment Indicators for Swing and Positional Trading
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Market 103: Mastering Trends with RMI and Techno-Funda Insights
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Market 104: Options Trading: Kickstart Your F&O Adventure
By - Saketh R, Founder- QuickAlpha, Full Time Options Trader
Astrology
Vastu Shastra Course
By - Sachenkumar Rai, Vastu Shashtri
Data Science
SQL for Data Science along with Data Analytics and Data Visualization
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Web Development
A Comprehensive ASP.NET Core MVC 6 Project Guide for 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Stock Trading
ROC Made Easy: Master Course for ROC Stock Indicator
By - Souradeep Dey, Equity and Commodity Trader, Trainer
Stock Trading
RSI Made Easy: RSI Trading Course
By - Souradeep Dey, Equity and Commodity Trader, Trainer
Stock Trading
Technical Analysis for Everyone - Technical Analysis Course
By - Abhijit Paul, Technical Research Head, Fund Manager- ICICI Securities
Office Productivity
Mastering Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and 365
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Marketing
Digital marketing - Wordpress Website Development
By - Shraddha Somani, Digital Marketing Trainer, Consultant, Strategiest and Subject Matter expert
Web Development
Mastering Full Stack Development: From Frontend to Backend Excellence
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Finance
Financial Literacy i.e Lets Crack the Billionaire Code
By - CA Rahul Gupta, CA with 10+ years of domain experience, trainer
Stock Trading
Introduction to Technical Analysis & Candlestick Theory
By - Dinesh Nagpal, Full Time Trader, Ichimoku & Trading Psychology Expert
Leadership
Business Storytelling Masterclass
By - Ameen Haque, Founder of Storywallahs
Marketing
Future of Marketing & Branding Masterclass
By - Dr. David Aaker, Professor at Haas School of Business
HR
Human Potential and the Future of Employment
By - Lynda Gratton, Co-chair of the World Economic Forum Council on Work, Wages and Job Creation, Professor of Management Practice
Strategy
ESG and Business Sustainability Strategy
By - Vipul Arora, Partner, ESG & Climate Solutions at Sattva Consulting Author I Speaker I Thought Leader
Stock Trading
Options Trading Course For Beginners
By - Chetan Panchamia, Options Trader
Finance
Financial Reporting and Analytics
By - Dr. C.P. Gupta, Professor: Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi
Stock Trading
Options Scalping Made Easy
By - Sivakumar Jayachandran, Ace Scalper
Stock Trading
Futures Trading Made Easy: Future & Options Trading Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Markets Made Easy
By - elearnmarkets, Financial Education by StockEdge
Stock Trading
Renko Chart Patterns Made Easy
By - Kaushik Akiwatkar, Derivative Trader and Investor
Stock Trading
Options Trading Made Easy: Options Trading Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Investing Made Easy: Beginner's Stock Market Investment Course
By - elearnmarkets, Financial Education by StockEdge
Stock Trading
Macroeconomics Made Easy: Online Certification Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Valuation Made Easy
By - Rounak Gouti, Investment commentary writer
Tuesday, 24 Sep, 2024
Vodafone Idea (Vi) has said it’s now up to the government to come up with a mechanism to offer financial relief to the company, after the Supreme Court’s recent rejection of the telco’s curative petition seeking a re-computation of its adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues.
India’s aspiration to be a $7-trillion economy by the end of the decade can be achieved as a “strong” Prime Minister Narendra Modi rolls out the digital and physical infrastructure that’s drawing multinationals involved in manufacturing advanced products and services, said Jamie Dimon, chairman and CEO, JPMorgan.
This is India’s moment and the country should seize it, Nvidia chief executive Jensen Huang said after a roundtable in New York between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and leading technology industry CEOs. Sundar Pichai, the CEO of Google and its parent Alphabet, said the Prime Minister has a clear vision of the opportunity that artificial intelligence will create, and is challenging top companies to do more in India.
Securing a US student visa is just the beginning for international students. Maintaining it is crucial, as violations like prolonged absence, unauthorized transfer, or fraudulent activities can lead to revocation. Immediate steps include understanding the reason, contacting university services, reapplying or appealing, and seeking legal assistance if necessary.
High net worth Indians are using corporate credit cards for personal expenses during overseas travels to avoid breaching the $250,000 annual limit on foreign remittance. The government may soon implement rules to include international credit card spends under this limit, but distinguishing personal from business expenses remains challenging.
Prodigy Finance has announced a $5,000 scholarship for students pursuing higher education abroad for the Spring 2025 intake. Applications open in September 2024 and close on September 30, 2024. Eligible candidates must be accepted into a Prodigy Finance-supported program and demonstrate academic excellence and community commitment.
Rajinikanth to Mahesh Babu: South Stars Steal The Spotlight at Anant Ambani's Wedding
Explore Goa In The Rains: 10 Must-Do Activities, Places To Visit
Sonakshi Sinha wedding photos out: Actress marries Zaheer Iqbal in civil ceremony
How Four Words from Chiranjeevi Saved Pawan Kalyan's Life
​Mushrooms Can Lower Risk Of A Cancer Diagnosis​​​
What To Eat, What To Avoid During Pregnancy? Follow This ICMR Guide
Want To Live Longer? Watch Your Salt Intake, Advises ICMR
How vegans can get enough protein? What ICMR says
Balakrishna's 5 Controversies. Latest: Actress Anjali Incident
Why These Two Rs 10 Notes Fetched Over Rs 12 Lakhs At Auction?
Magnificent Mango: 5 Beauty Secrets Of This Summer Delight
​Radhika Merchant’s Space Suit Designer For Ambani Pre-Wedding Bash, Has Worked With Jennifer Lopez & Karlie Kloss!​
​Flax Seeds Can Aid In Weight Loss, Improve Gut Heath: Here’s The Best Time To Consume Them​
​NASA Finds 126 Alien Planets! Does This Mean There’s Extraterrestrial Life?​
You Can Enjoy This 5-Day Cruise For Just Rs 5,000. Thanks To Indian Govt
Scandals that destroyed Bollywood celebs' career
​From Vedavid To Vamika, 6 Bollywood Babies With Unique Names​
Blockout 2024: From Taylor Swift To Alia Bhatt, Celebs Are Being Boycotted Online
Gainers & Losers: Vedanta, IEX among 7 stocks in limelight on Tuesday
SIPs in 5 small cap mutual funds multiplied wealth by 100x in 15 years
9 famous street food to try when in Gujarat
8 yoga poses to reduce stubborn waist fat
8 health benefits of having ghee coffee in the morning
9 excellent immunity boosting food for kids
9 chia seeds benefits for skin and hair
These 4 F&O stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest
These 4 stocks closed above VWAP on September 23
These 3 stocks showed RSI Trending up on September 23
Bullish Momentum: These 3 stocks with White Marubozu Pattern on September 23
These 4 stocks closed below VWAP on September 23
At multi-year highs: These 6 stocks witnessed 5-year swing high breakouts
Positive Breakout: ACC among 4 stocks crossed their 200 DMAs
Chia Seeds: Miracle Superfood Or Overhyped Trend
Who Has Chris Martin Dated? A Look At Coldplay Singer's Famous Girlfriends
Gainers & Losers: Vodafone Idea, Indus Towers among 6 stocks in limelight on Monday
7 immunity boosting drinks for weather change
7 high-protein dishes made with chickpeas
7 house plants best suited for bathroom
7 effective morning exercises to lose weight
Gold price up more than 23% in one year; check latest price of gold
7 common mistakes you are doing to lose weight
7 health benefits of drinking haldi doodh everyday at night
7 homemade drinks to boost energy
Tech Mahindra among 3 stocks showing RSI trending up
Cochin Shipyard among 5 stocks with White Marubozu Pattern
These 5 F&O stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest
Finolex Industries and 3 other stocks close below VWAP
Vodafone Idea and 3 other stocks closed above VWAP
Check out these iconic Bonedi Bari Durga Puja in Kolkata
Why your EPF claim may get rejected: Here are 11 reasons
What DonaldTrump promised to accomplish on day one as president
Cancer patients: Tips to go through chemotherapy
Direct Tax Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme 2024: CBDT notifies these rules, forms from October 1, 2024
Oscars 2025: 'Laapataa Ladies' picked as India's entry; how Kiran Rao reacted, top film contenders and other details
India’s first Mpox clade 1 case in Kerala: Symptoms, treatment, risk factors, travel advices and other details
Want to visit the equator? Countries to consider and your budget guide from India
Top 5 flexi-cap funds with up to 28% returns in 3 yrs
Kamala Harris isn't alone! 5 Indian politicians who love to cook and eat
Hot on Web
In Case you missed it
Top Calculators
Top Prime Articles
Top Performing MF
Top Story Listing
Top Commodities
Top Definitions
Top Slideshow
Latest News
Follow us on: