Title: No title found


Title: No truth to rumors about a Russia-Taliban friendship - expert - Russia Beyond
Russia is believed to have limited contacts with the Taliban.
The Russian authorities do not have a plan to make friends with the Taliban. The Afghan groupwas blacklistedas a terrorist organization by the Russian Supreme Court on Feb. 14, 2003. Any cooperation between Russia and the Taliban would constitute a criminal offense.
7 things you probably didn't know about the Soviet war in Afghanistan
If the movement stops terrorist activities, the Russian Supreme Court would be able to remove it from the blacklist. But the Taliban continues its attacks on civilian and military objects in Afghanistan.
Foreigners, including Russians, are usual targets for these attacks. Almost every year the Russian special services arrest suspects in Russia for alleged links with the Taliban. This is proof that it is too early to discuss the removal of the Taliban from the Russian blacklist.
The clearest articulation of the Russian position about the Talibanwas madeon Sept. 30, 2016, by General Oleg Syromolotov, Deputy Foreign Minister in charge of counter-terrorism: “This is a terrorist group that is on the UN sanctions list. Therefore, we do not have any contacts with the Taliban. We only have a communication channel on humanitarian issues related to human rights and hostages. No more than that.”
The 2014 release of Russian pilot Pavel Petrenko from Taliban captivity proved the effectiveness of this communication channel between Moscow and the group.
5 Soviet infrastructure projects that survived the Afghan wars
“My freedom became possible, because Russia has gotten new capabilities in Afghanistan,” Petrenkotoldto the Afghanistan.ru website after his release. “These capabilities allow Moscow to have influence on the process inside Afghanistan without third countries.”
On Aug. 16, 2016, joint efforts of Russia, Afghanistan and Pakistan facilitated the release of another pilot, Sergey Sevastyanov, just nine days after he was captured by the Taliban.
Diverse views on the Taliban emerge from a number of politicians, experts, and journalists, who follow the developments in Afghanistan.
By reading recent headlines about Russia and the Taliban, it is easy to believe that big changes have taken place in the Russian position towards the movement: “Moscow's New Ally in Afghanistan”, “Russia’s New Favorite Jihadist”, “Russia’s New Friends in the Afghan Taliban.”
How a Russian spy outfoxed the British in 19th century Afghanistan
Some peoplebelievethat Russia has started supplying the Taliban with weapons and equipment, and repairing the group’s weapons, including tanks and vehicles.
According to Russian officials these reports are false.
On Feb. 10, the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairsdismissedallegations by General John Nicholson, Commander of the U.S. and NATO Forces in Afghanistan, of Russian supplies of weapons to Taliban.
On Jan. 2, the spokesman for Tajikistan’s border guard agency Muhammadjon Ulughkhojaevsaid, that the allegations were “baseless.”
The Russian policy towards Afghanistan generally, and the Taliban in particular becomes more visible due to more attention to this country from the Russian side recently, and less attention to Afghanistan from the side of its usual partners.
At the start of the U.S.-led campaign in Afghanistan, Moscow decided to limit its involvement by playing a supporting role. But after the U.S. decided to limit its military footprint in Afghanistan, the Russian leadership realized that neither Kabul nor Washington and it allies had enough capabilities to end terrorism and drug trafficking from Afghan soil. That is why Russia ceased to play a supportive role for the U.S./NATO mission and started its own policy toward Afghanistan.
Moscow and Kabul agree on maintenance of Russian helicopters in Afghanistan
There is no doubt, that Russia needs a communication channel with the Taliban and other armed groups inside Afghanistan. The release of its pilots from the Taliban’s captivity explains that the main role for this channel is to help Russian citizens.
As for the Russian common interests and dialogue with Taliban, these possibilities will remain cloudy due to the Taliban inability to stop both terrorist activities inside Afghanistan and neighboring countries and involvement in drug production and trafficking.
If the relations between Russia and the United Sates improve, Moscow will most likely keep the communication channel with the Taliban open, but it will not raise questions about common interests with the movement. If the U.S.-Russian relations go bad, Moscow will probably try to challenge every part of U.S. policy towards Afghanistan, and Russian statements about the Taliban will be used for this purpose.
Petr Topychkanov is an associate in the Carnegie Moscow Center’s Nonproliferation Program, and a senior researcher at the Center for International Security of the Institute of World Economy and International Relations of the Russian Academy of Sciences.
This is an abridged version of an article, firstpublishedby the Russia&India Report. Views expressed in the column are personal. ​
If using any of Russia Beyond's content, partly or in full, always provide an active hyperlink to the original material.
Subscribe
to our newsletter!
Get the week's best stories straight to your inbox
This website uses cookies. Clickhereto find out more.

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: Pakistan strikes in Afghanistan fail to deter Islamic State
Transforming Contingent Workforce Management with Cutting-Edge Program Strategies
Meet woman with Rs 39322 crore net worth, who once led Rs 59262 crore company, she is India's richest...
Jatadhara makers Prerna Arora, Sudheer Babu Productions reveal striking second poster of supernatural epic
'Thunder Thighs': Meet Bollywood actress who said no to Phool Aur Kaante and Prem Qaidi, became superstar after...
MAMI film festival to kickstart with over 110 films in 50 languages, it’ll begin in Mumbai on…
World
Pak shelling reported in eastern provinces of Afghanistan, ISKP continues to carry out attacks
Shweta Desai
Updated :Feb 19, 2017, 06:35 AM IST
Days after a string of terror attacks hit Pakistan, the military extended its crackdown on militancy in the neighbouring Afghanistan as it shelled the militant camps and safe houses lined along the porous border in the eastern provinces of Nangarhar and Kunar, where the Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP) and several militant groups have established their strongholds.
Notwithstanding, the strike by Pakistan, ISKP continued its reign of terror as it attacked the Afghan Army over two days killing more than 23 soldiers.
The cross-border strike by Pakistan has reportedly hit camps of Jamaat ul Ahrar, a splinter group of Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) and an ally of the ISKP. The strike came within 48 hours as the ISKP claiming responsibility for a suicide blast at the renowned Sufi shrine of Lal Shahbaz Qalandar at Sehwan in Balochistan, killing 88 people and Pakistan military claiming `linkages of support for these incidents from across the border.''
The military campaign, though not yet confirmed by Pakistan military and government, has evoked strong condemnation by Afghanistan, as local authorities reported civilians were injured and hundreds fled their houses. The foreign ministry too summoned Pakistan's Ambassador Abrar Hussain to protest the border shelling. If confirmed, it will be the first cross-border strike by Pakistan military into Afghanistan against militants.
Tensions are running high between the two neighbouring countries since Thursday night shortly after the Sehwan blast as Pakistan military alleged the terrorist groups attacking on its soil were operating from Afghanistan. The top brass of Pakistan military first summoned officials from the Afghanistan embassy at the Army headquarters and handed a list of 76 terrorists based in Afghanistan, tasking them with immediate action or to be handed over. Major General Asif Ghafoor, spokesperson for the Pakistan Armed forces, posted a tweet on Saturday saying as part of the combing operations, the border is  closed and no movement from Afghanistan is allowed into Pakistan. Chief of Army Staff, Gen Qamar Bajwa also spoke to US Gen John Nicholson, Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan to complain about terrorist groups and its leadership was hiding and acting with impunity.
The ISKP — branch of the Islamic State or ISIS – has been operational in the Af-Pak region since 2015. In Pakistan, since last August, the group has collaborated with proscribed sectarian local affiliates such as the Jamat ul Ahrar and Lashkar-e-Jhangvi using their network in Balochistan to conduct large-scale attacks in the province.
These groups are based in `Khost, Kunar, Nangarhar and Paktya provinces of Afghanistan from, where they could carry out cross-border attacks on targets in Pakistani territory,’ the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team’s 19th report to the UN Security Council released in January notes.
While the military campaigns on ground and aerial strikes in Syria and Iraq have shrunk the IS-held territory, destroyed its resources and resulted in a loss of manpower, the ISKP continues to wield its command in Af-Pak. From its peak in power, the group has lost control from nine districts to three-and-a-half districts in eastern Afghanistan, where it maintains a strong base, states the UN report's recent updates for January. It adds, there are around 1,600 IS militants in the districts of Deh Bala, Kot, Achin and Naziyan in Nangarhar province with 700 foreign militants and about 200 based in Kunar province. Both these provinces reportedly were shelled by Pakistan on Saturday.
The UN report indicates ISKP to have significant strength of 2000-3500 fighters. The numbers keep on fluctuating based on the clashes between ISKP and its rival the Afghan Taliban. Afghan officials, however, informed in the UN report that IS “maintained the ability to reorganise and re-infiltrate the areas that it had lost in 2016.’’
One reason for its ability is the alliances it forms with local militant groups and maintain its strength. Most of its recruits are local Afghans and Pakistani and it draws many foot soldiers from former TTP groups and from the increasing refugee population in Afghanistan.
The loss in territory, number of recruits and finances in the last year has, however, “not hampered its ambitions,’’ the UN report observes ``It appears to be well equipped and uses military-grade explosives for improvised explosive device attacks in Kabul.’’
In the eastern provinces, on Friday, the group attacked security force check points in Jorjori area of Nangarhar, killed 18 soldiers and plundered their weapons, ammunition. Posting photos of the `war loot’, a statement by ISKP claimed, ``On Saturday Afghan soldiers and captured one as it attacked Army barracks in north of Kunar.
Lok Sabha Elections 2024: Anupamaa' Star Rupali Ganguly Joins BJP, Says 'Big Fan' Of PM Modi
Salman Khan House Firing Case: Accused Anuj Thapan Dies By Suicide In Mumbai Police Custody
Lok Sabha Elections 2024: Congress' Rahul Gandhi-Amethi Suspense Making BJP Nervous? | Uttar Pradesh
Delhi Bomb Threat: Who Is Behind The Hoax Bomb Threat That Shut Down Hundred Schools In Delhi?
Bangladesh Protest: Unreal Scenes In Country After fresh Wave Of Protests |Sheikh Hasina

Title: hoyentv.com


Title: Afghan civilian casualties soar  - The Korea Times
1
2 Philippine domestic helpers absent from work without permission after Chuseok holiday
3
Korea to open nation's longest walking trail
5
REVIEWOlivia Rodrigo proves her Gen Z icon status at first-ever concert in Korea
7
Teachers struggle with communication at schools with many immigrant students: report
9
Citizens invited to choose names for Han River buses
11
Elderly to make up nearly half of Korea's population by 2072
13
Morgan Stanley faces scrutiny for large stock sale before downgrading SK hynix
15
Will Korea's STO legislation finally be approved?
17
Lebanon says Israeli airstrikes kill at least 100, citizens told to evacuate
19
Quad leaders show commitment to denuclearization of Korean Peninsula
2
REVIEWIU wraps historic world tour with thoughtful Seoul finale
4
Man arrested 16 years after encasing partner in cement on balcony
6
ILLIT to drop 2nd EP, 'I'll Like You,' next month
8
Former Russian zookeeper found dead in abandoned zoo in Gimhae
10
Korean women's clothing in the past: A mark of honor
12
Card companies rush to introduce tailor-made products for foreign nationals
14
Thousands rally in Seoul for stronger action against deepfake crimes
16
S. Korea's population to shrink over 30% to be at world's 59th in 2072: data
18
Korea Heritage Service, Disney to bring Mickey to royal palace
20
N. Korea's Kim vows to develop friendly ties with China
Close for 24 hours
Bayern Munich beat Tottenham Hotspur in Seoul
Tottenham 4-3 K-League All-Stars
World Water Day 2024
Busan World Team Table Tennis Championships Finals
Super Bowl 2024

Title: Warning Update: The Expansion of ISIS in Northwestern Afghanistan | Institute for the Study of War
By: Caitlin Forrest and Richard DeKold
Key Takeaway:ISIS Wilayat Khorasan may be developing a regional powerbase in northwestern Afghanistan. Former Taliban militants operating in the name of ISIS executed international aid workers and held others captive in a prison in Jowzjan Province in February 2017, a step change in ISIS’s operations in Afghanistan. ISIS may increasingly use this hub to regenerate manpower as it suffers losses elsewhere, threatening US and NATO interests in multiple regions across Afghanistan. Malign external actors like Russia and Iran could also use ISIS’s expansion in the region to validate their support of Taliban militants and undermine the U.S. and NATO.
Tripwire: The Jowzjan Provincial Governor claimed ISIS-linked militants killed six International Committee for the Red Cross (ICRC) workers on February 8 inQush TepahDistrict. Militants are holding two more ICRC workers captive in anISISprison in Qush Tepah District, Jowzjan Province according to a local news source. This report comes one month after local officials and elders separately claimed that ISIS members destroyed homes inDarzabDistrict, Jowzjan Province and forced up to 60 families to leave their homes inSayadDistrict, Sar-e Pul Province in December 2016. Another report emerged on February 8 that thesonof the slain leader of the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU), whichpledgedto ISIS in August 2015, is leading efforts to resettle up to 650 foreign Pakistani and Uzbek militants and their families in Jowzjan, Sar-e Pul, and Faryab Provinces. ISW is issuing a warning based on these reports that ISIS may be developing a regional power base in northwestern Afghanistan. Neither ISIS Wilayat Khorasan nor ISIS’s central media has claimed the aforementioned events.
Pattern: The execution of international aid workers is a step change for ISIS in Afghanistan.The establishment of a prison and population displacement are new developments for ISIS in northwest Afghanistan, but typical of ISIS generally. ISIS militants previously used resettlement efforts to increase presence in Kunar inMarch2016, and also established multiple prisons in their strongholds in Nangarhar Province. Reporting of ISIS-linked activity in northwestern Afghanistan accelerated in February 2017 compared to previous trends, but early indicators corroborate the presence of ISIS-linked fighters in this zone. Local security officials first claimedISISwas recruiting and raising “black flags” in Jowzjan and Sar-e Pul Provinces in January 2015. The Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU), which historically operates in northern Afghanistan and the Afghanistan-Pakistan border area, pledged to ISIS in August 2015. ISIS militants reportedly clashed with security forces inQush TepahDistrict, Jowzjan province in July 2016. Another report in August 2016 alluded to a localISIScommander in Jowzjan. ISIS militants clashed again with security forces inDarzabDistrict, Jowzjan Province in October 2016. ISIS-linked groups also killed a local prayer leader in for assaulting minors inDarzabDistrict in October 2016.
Timing: ISIS may be exploiting a gap in security by Dostum’s Junbish Militia in northwestern Afghanistan.ISIS’s expansion in the region comes as First Vice President Abdul Rashid Dostum, who maintains significant influence in the North through his Junbish Militia, remains confined to hishomesurrounded by his militia in Kabul City following a scandal involving the alleged assault of former Jowzjan Provincial Governor Ahmad Eschi in November 2016 by his bodyguards. The lack of reported Junbish militia action to combat ISIS-linked militants in Northern Afghanistan may represent the absence of Junbish militias. Alternatively, Dostum may be sanctioning the expansion of ISIS in the region in order to demonstrate his significance to Afghan security in an attempt to relieve the political pressure to prosecute him for the alleged assault. Meanwhile, the ANSF is currently undergoing a U.S.-led force regeneration process during their 2016-2017 winter campaign. The Afghan National Unity Government has historically relied on a joint force of ANSF units and Junbish militiamen to provide security in northwestern Afghanistan. The lessened presence of Dostum’s militia while the ANSF rests and refits units may be granting ISIS-linked militants increased freedom of movement in the region.
Assessment:The prison in Qush Tepah District, Jowzjan province is the first indicator of social control by ISIS in Afghanistan outside of its strongholds in eastern Afghanistan.The prison is run by formerTalibanshadow governor Qari Hekmat, who reportedly joinedISISin mid-2016 a few months after he was expelled from theTalibandue to his excessive brutality. Qari Hekmat is one of several ISIS-linked groups operating in the area, including Abdul Rahman Yuldash, thesonof the slain leader of the IMU, who has also been implicated by local sources in recent reporting. The Jowzjan Provincial Governor claimed on February 8 that fiveISISfactions with up to 200 fighters are present in Qush Tepah District alone. The successful recruitment of former-Taliban and IMU militants in Jowzjan, Sar-e Pul, and Faryab Provinces will allow ISIS to regenerate manpower and absorb losses incurred in its strongholds in eastern Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria. ISIS seeks to take advantage of the vast ungoverned and remote spaces in Afghanistan to establish camps where it can recruit, train, and deploy local and foreign fighters. ISIS Wilayat Khorasan has trained recruits from India, planned successful attacks in Kabul, and deployed expeditionary recruiters to remote provinces from its strongholds in Nangarhar and Zabul according to local sources. ISIS will likely use its growing presence and influence in the northwestern provinces to establish an additional regional base in which it can implement social control and expand ISIS’s Caliphate as it loses territory in core terrain.
Implications: The expansion of ISIS’s Caliphate in Afghanistan would grant ISIS an additional logistical hub to receive and train foreign fighters as it becomes more difficult for foreign fighters to join ISIS in Iraq and Syria.ISIS Wilayat Khorasan is likely strengthening its ties with IMU militants in order to expand its regional network and coopt local groups and fighters. Russia may use the expansion of ISIS in northwestern Afghanistan, which borders former Soviet satellite states Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Tajikistan, to continue undermining the U.S. and NATO by supporting Taliban militants and claiming that Taliban militants are fighting ISIS rather than the U.S. The expansion of ISIS outside of its bases in eastern Afghanistan will also strain the ongoing U.S. counterterrorism mission as it will have to shift resources to remote northwestern provinces. This shift may allow ISIS in Nangarhar to reconstitute sanctuaries lost to joint U.S.-ANSF operations in 2016. Any remaining Junbish militias under Dostum’s control in the area would further complicate U.S. response if Dostum faces backlash from his alleged assault against Eschi and orders his militias not to cooperate with the U.S. as a result. Both ISIS and Russia stand to benefit from the expansion of ISIS into the northwest at the expense of the U.S.
Indicators:Increased reports of ISIS conducting executions and establishing courts or prisons in the northwestern provinces would indicate ISIS is solidifying social control in the region. Reports that the group is suddenly flush with cash or is able to procure explosive materials may indicate a transfer of capabilities from either ISIS in core terrain, ISIS militants in eastern Afghanistan, or both. Any recognition of these ISIS-linked groups in official ISIS media, either coming from core or with official ISIS Wilayat Khorasan branding, would indicate ISIS is consolidating ties with these groups and attempting to expand the Caliphate in northwestern Afghanistan. The continued successful recruiting of former-Taliban militants would increase the likelihood that ISIS will establish a regional stronghold as it coopts is main competitors in the area. If Dostum’s militia remains disengaged, it could further deteriorate security in the northwestern provinces and allow ISIS to make significant gains in the region. These gains may prompt Russia to take action against ISIS in the northwest, which would severely undermine and complicate the U.S. and NATO missions.

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: Afghanistan Swimming Believes "The time Is Right To Empower Women"
SwimSwam Facebook
SwimSwam Youtube
SwimSwam RSS Feed
SwimSwam Pinterest
SwimSwam Instagram
SwimSwam X
SwimSwam LinkedIn
The Afghanistan swimming federation  has put into place a plan to launch the first ever national women's swimming team.
Luc Kroon, detentore del record nazionale olandese, ha annunciato il ritiro dal nuoto all’età di 23 anni a causa degli infortuni
After speaking with many from the USA’s Olympic team, SwimSwam compiled a few of the best workouts we heard about from the 2024 Olympic training camp
Abbiamo assistito a gare emozionanti durante le Olimpiadi di Parigi 2024, con molti arrivi al fotofinish. Quanto sono state effettivamente ravvicinate
The wheel of change made a lot of turns on Monday, but other than a swimming-specific shift, wound up mostly back where it started.
23-year-old Dutch national record holder Luc Kroon revealed his retirement decision after suffering another injury setback.
February 02nd, 2017Asia,International,News
The Afghanistan swimming federation  has put into place a plan to launch the first ever national women’s swimming team.
Afghanistan has never had a female athlete compete in swimming at the Olympic Games, World Championships, or any high profile international competition.
President of the Afghanistan Swimming Federation (ANSF), Sayed Ihsanuddin Taheri, has put together the plan in hopes of seeing higher participating in the sport among women.
The ANSF indicated that they’re striving towards development of their swim program. Getting the program running has faced challenges such as lack of appropriate facilities, lack of proper financials to run it, and the Afghani culture.
The ANSF looks to address the lack of participation of females in the sport of swimming in Afghanistan and, “believes the time is right to empower women…and have them as equal partners in making further cultural and modernizing strides of the country.”
According to the ANSF upon releasing information about their plans to initiate the program, many females got in touch with the federation in order to inquire about possibly pursuing training in the sport.
The ANSF believes that, “given the incremental advances of the country and steps towards modernization Afghanistan has made, we at ANSF sternly believe in the timing of this proposal to establish an all-women’s team.”
According to the ANSF there have been past attempts to begin a women’s team, however due to lack of finances and support, nothing came to fruition.
This time around the ANSF is seeking support and funding in order to establish training camps and build their women’s program throughDreamfuel.To see more information including the perks of donating, clickhere.

Δ

Δ
PHOOEY. Afghanistan had freedoms & opportunities in the 60s & 70s for men & women who were not Mujhadeen . Maybe not swim teams but there were universities , modern dress & an air of progress.
There is just corruption & a begging bowl , now with new siren words.
Too bad the team won’t be allowed in the USA.  Make America look stupid again….
This is fantastic.
If they need a (mediocre, American) coach, I’m in.
Mitch worked for 5-years with SwimSwam news as a web producer focusing on both Canadian and international content.

He coached for Toronto Swim Club for four seasons as a senior coach focusing on the development of young swimmers.

Mitch is an NCCP level 2 certified coach in Canada and an ASCA Level …Read More »
Mitch worked for 5-years with SwimSwam news as a web producer focusing on both Canadian and international content.

He coached for Toronto Swim Club for four seasons as a senior coach focusing on the development of young swimmers.

Mitch is an NCCP level 2 certified coach in Canada and an ASCA Level …
More from Mitch BowmileSee All
Subscribe to our newsletter and receive our latest updates!


Subscribe to SwimSwam Magazine!
Subscribe
© 2024 Swim Swam Partners, LLC.  All rights reserved.
FTC Disclaimer|Terms of Use & Privacy Policy

Title: Just Because We Look Away, The War in Afghanistan is Not Over – CSS Blog Network
This article wasoriginally publishedby theDanish Institute for International Studies (DIIS)on 13 January 2017.
Recent developments herald a troubled year for the Afghans
During 2015 and 2016, the Taliban have been on an offensive and gained territory. Particularly they have made inroads into strategic areaswhere the Taliban can control the roads. At the same time, there is an active fight between the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) and Taliban over 20% of the Afghan territory. How the final battle will fall out is unknown, but if the ANSF loses, the Taliban can end up controlling up to one-third of the country.
The past couple of years have seen an increase in violent incidents, an increase in militant actors and in both the number of Internally Displaced People (IDPs) andAfghan returnees from the EU, Pakistan and Iran. The increase of violence is related both to the force used by insurgents and the Afghan government. The increase in militant actors is due to the military operation, known as the Zarb-e-Azb, launched by the Pakistani army in the tribal areas of Pakistan, which has pushed over new militants to Afghan soil, but also due to theentrance of the Islamic State into Afghanistan.

In the face of this situation, analysts and observers who monitor Afghanistan closely have identified troublesome challenges in the Afghan security sector. These are primarily issues of loyalty and high desertion rates within the ANSF, but also the high level of corruption that still haunts all sectors of government in Afghanistan. Additional challenges are the lack of full control over government militias and the human rights violations that follow the government’s use of local militias. Adding to this, there is a lack of intelligence capabilities and gathering, which is one of reasons why the Taliban have been on an offensive during the past couple of years.
Insurgency in advance
The NATO forces concluded the “International Security Assistance Force” (ISAF) mission by the end of 2014. A new NATO-led mission, “Resolute Support,” commenced on January 1, 2015 with a mandate to solely train, advice, and assist the ANSF. However, during the first part of 2015, Afghanistan also saw an increase in insurgency operations that led to theTaliban take-over of territory. The Taliban have made offensives in Kandahar, Uruzgan, in a number of strategic areas in the northern province of Baghlan over the past two years and in Helmand, where large areas are under their control. In areas like Zabul and Uruzgan, the Taliban also took control over roads.The Taliban have also made inroads to part of the Ring Road, which links Kabul to the north.
The Taliban managed to take temporarily control over the city of Kunduz in September 2015 – an event that shook the international community working towards a complete security transition, i.e. letting the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) be responsible for the security of Afghanistan. The ambition was that this should have happened by the end of 2016.
Increase in violence, militant actors and displacement
In response to the insurgency in advance, the ANSF have conducted several military operations, beginning in late 2015 and continuing throughout 2016. Among the consequences of the increased military activities are the displacement of hundreds of families and the erosion of local communities’ trust in the government. The Taliban are allegedly also undertaking relief work among the internally displaced people (IDPs), which adds to their mobilisation capacity.
The Haqqani Network, which maintains distinct command and particular lines of operations work more closely with the Taliban, and have caused some of the deadliest attacks in Afghanistan (UNAMA, February 2016). The number of civilians killed during government military operations also increased during 2015 (Human Rights Watch, Jan 2016). It is worth noting that the schools that are hijacked for military use are both hijacked by insurgents and by pro-government militias.
There has also been a spill-over of militants from the Pakistan army’s operation Zarb-e-Azb, launched in the North Waziristan tribal area of Pakistan (these include Uzbek, Arab and Pakistani militants). Adding to this, the Islamic State Khorasan (ISK) announced its presence in Afghanistan in January 2015. ISK is mainly present in southern Nangarhar. Reports indicate that they constitute between 1500-3000 fighters. Islamic State militants collaborate with the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) and elements of the Pakistani Taliban, but are at war with the Afghan Taliban and Al-Qaeda militants. Primarily however, they are fighting the Afghan state, attacking both civilians and the ANSF.
While Europe has been focusing on the asylum seekers to Europe (in 2015, 180,000 Afghans applied for asylum in Europe), there is almost 1 million internally displaced people in Afghanistan (Human Rights Watch 2016). Adding to this, more than 300,000 Afghan refugees have been repatriated from Pakistan since July 2016. In addition, Iran has been deporting Afghan refugees. Human Rights Watch has reported that Iran has been recruiting thousands of Afghan refugees to fight in pro-government armed groups in neighbouring Syria. Those who have been deported to Afghanistan as a punishment allegedly refused the coerced fighting. The implications of this is, that Afghanistan is probably facing a humanitarian crisis that we can’t yet imagine. In spite of the increase in violence, and violent actors during the past two years, the EU does not consider Afghanistan to be a war zone.
New advancement in peace initiatives
In spite of the obvious challenges, there are minor signs of progress when it comes to the track that is about advancing dialogue between the different stakeholders of the conflict. In September 2016, a peace deal was signed between Gulbuddin Hekmatyar from Hezb-e Islami and President Ashraf Ghani. This was portrayed as the first major peace achievement of the last fifteen years. However, Hezb-e Islami has not been actively fighting on the battlefield for years, andit can be questioned whether the Taliban will follow the example, considering the different aims of the two groups, and their history as enemies.
In July 2015, the first direct, and publicly known, meeting between the High Peace Council of Afghanistan and the Taliban was hosted by Pakistan. This meeting was a more significant development since it brought together the two conflicting parties, though with no immediate results. Peace initiatives are nothing new in the Afghan context: Afghanistan already started its reach-out activities in 2005 and launched the peace initiative, the Program Takhim-E-Sohl (PTS). PTS failed, partly due to inadequate funding and the lack of domestic Afghan political support. In 2010, Afghanistan’s High Peace Council was formed, among other things to initiate peace talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban. In September 2011, however, the head of the program, Burhanuddin Rabbani, an old rival of the Taliban, was assassinated and the faith in the process decreased. The 2015 meeting is an initial step towards restarting the trust-building measures.
One of the main questions in an environment where the Taliban and other militant actors in Afghanistan show no signs of weakness, and where we do not know whether Islamic State militants will gain more influence, is how peace talks can succeed. The exact composition of the peace councils, and exactly who has participated in the previous negotiations and peace talks, has proved to be vital for the way the Taliban have viewed the talks and their willingness to participate. Persons that have long relations of enmity with the Taliban, for instance, should not lead a reconciliation process. In addition, there has been confusion about who the main parts in the peace talks should be. The international community could do more to facilitate the peace and reconciliation processes. More than 15 years of fighting have not been able to eradicate the insurgent groups, and more could be done by intensifying the focus on conflict resolution.
Challenges in the Afghan security sector
Though it is not an easy task to build up an army from the ground, one of the challenges that have been pointed out by looking back at the past couple of years is that there is still a divided loyalty among the Afghan security forces. For instance, the way that the Taliban could take over Kunduz revealed that some of the units did not resist. At the same time, strong ethnic and tribal loyalties constitute a continuous challenge for the way the civil population perceive the security forces and its uneven composition of the different tribes. There are also high desertion rates and inactive soldiers in the Afghan National Army that are sometimes termed ‘ghost soldiers’ – persons on the payroll but not on the battlefield, which has been pointed out to be a challenge in e.g. Helmand.
The above problems of loyalty are linked to a high level of corruption. The ‘loyalty for sale’ issue is a challenge not only for the Afghan National Army (ANA), but also for the Afghan Local Police, (a local defence force against Taliban insurgents with no arresting or investigative functions, but part of the Ministry of Interior, established in 2010). This is supposedly also due to thelower level of salary as compared to the National Police Force. The fact that the Afghan government is increasingly using militiamen to assist the Afghan Local Police also points to the danger of not being able to control forces that are on the government payroll.
An issue that relates to the lack of control, and that the international community needs to be aware of, is that the Afghan Local Police and pro-government militias continue to recruit children (Human Rights Watch 2016). Together with corruption, the violation of human rights are some of the fundamental issues that call for the international community to do more to assure the rightful application of aid-money and to prevent it from becoming linked to both human rights violations and corruption.
One of the reasons that observers point at in order to explain the increasingly defensive role of the ANSF (and similarly the more offensive posture of the Taliban and the Haqqani network) is the poor state of intelligence gathering. The knowledge about Taliban strongholds and movements has declined due to the lack of certain capabilities and equipment. When NATO’s ISAF mission was active, the intelligence gathering was happening at another level, while the ANSF lacks both surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities (AREU, 2016).
The challenges within the Afghan security sector are linked to, and reflect, the challenges that are also inherent in other sectors of government: the tensions in the unity government between the two old rivals (President Ashraf Ghani and chief Executive Abdullah Abdullah) make decision-making challenging. At the same time, there is still significant progress to be made when it comes to electoral reforms, empowerment of women, combating corruption, countering narcotics trafficking, ensuring a stable security environment, jobs creation and improving economic opportunities. Addressing the challenges within the security sector would require addressing these enduring challenges.
The new NATO mission
The shift from nation-building to capacity-building that took place in 2009 with president Obama was presumably based on the realisation that nation-building would require means that were larger than the will of the Americans. Reflecting this change, the new NATO mission, namely the ‘Resolute Support’ mission, that replaced the ISAF mission, has capacity-building at its core. However, the Taliban take-over of Kunduz, one of the largest cities of Afghanistan, though temporarily, pointed out the fact that there is still a long way before the ANSF will be able to operate without the support of international forces. When the Taliban took over Kunduz, it put two districts under sustained attacks, and reports say that no reinforcements or logistical support arrived when the second district (the Dasht-i-Archi district) came under attack.
The weakness of the ANSF raises the question of whether the status of Afghan nationhood will continuously be challenged by the strong ethnic and tribal identities. Ultimately, this is a more fundamental question of whether the national army, and thereby the focus of the NATO mission, will always face these structural constrains.
The Resolute Support mission would need to address how to handle the challenges identified above (desertion/divided loyalties, corruption, institutional/systemic deficiencies). Particularly the high level of corruption puts the NATO mission in a Catch-22. Afghanistan’s defence and security sector is ranked in the highest risk categories for corruption according to Transparency International’s Defence and Security Program in its 2015 Government Defence Anti-Corruption Index (Transparency International 2015). Some of the causes of this are patronage and nepotism, low pay, and ethnic favouritism.
Re-activating US combat force
The US still has around 9,800 troops present in Afghanistan. In mid-2016, US president Obama announced that he hoped to reduce the number of troops to 5,500 by early 2017 and wanted to cut down the number to 8,400 in 2016 – this, however, never happened. In June 2016, President Obama instead approved a policy to give the US military greater ability to accompany and enable Afghan forces to fight the Taliban. This policy allows the US to fight the Taliban directly and more flexibility to carry out airstrikes or wage ground combat. NATO members and other partners, although with a different mandate, have contributed 6,000 troops.
The US troops could stay due to the bilateral security agreement that president Ghani signed shortly after he took office. However, it is unclear what role the increased American use of air force and counterterrorism operations will play when it comes to the recruitment abilities of insurgent groups.The danger is that it will again lead to an escalation of the conflict and create further pressure on the ANSF. US involvement is an issue that divides Afghan society, but so far, one of the main grievances of the Taliban is that they will continue fighting as long as the US forces are present in Afghanistan.
The fact is that the war is ongoing in Afghanistan, including the western involvement. The Taliban appear strong, and now Islamic State is adding to the complexity (together with Al-Qaeda, who by the way, are still there). How the war in Afghanistan will evolve depends a great deal on how the Trump administration chooses to deal with Afghanistan in 2017.
About the Author
Mona Kanwal Sheikhis a Senior Researcher at the Danish Institute for International Studies. Her main area of expertise is militant movements in Pakistan, especially the movements related to the Pakistani Taliban.
For more information on issues and events that shape our world, please visit ourCSS Security Watch Seriesor browse ourPublications.
Save
Save
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Name*
Email*
Website


Δ
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.Learn how your comment data is processed.
Center for Security StudiesHaldeneggsteig 4, IFW8092 Zurich, Switzerland
Tel: +41 44 632 40 25cssresources@sipo.gess.ethz.ch
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
The views and opinions expressed on this page do not reflect those of the Center for Security Studies or the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich (ETH). In addition, neither organization is responsible for the content of external links.
©
							2024CSS Blog Network
Powered by WordPress

Title: Afghanistan Presents Four-Year Development Plan for ANSF | Ariana News
‘Engagement is key’ with Afghanistan, says UN political chief
UN chief says new laws ‘strip Afghan women and girls’ of all their rights
IEA blasts UN for not being invited to United Nations General Assembly
Iran walls off part of border with Afghanistan
IEA extends condolences to Iran following deadly coal mine explosion
Biden designates UAE as a second major defense partner after India
Israeli troops raid, order closure of Al Jazeera’s West Bank bureau
Top Hezbollah commander among 14 killed in Israeli strike on Beirut
More than 100 killed or missing as Sinaloa Cartel war rages in Mexico
Israel unleashes heavy strikes on Lebanon as US, UK urge restraint
Iran’s Guards ban communications devices after strike on Hezbollah
Pakistan picks new chief of powerful spy agency ISI
Sri Lankans elect Marxist-leaning Dissanayake as president to fix economy
At least 30 dead in Iran coal mine explosion
Iran gave Russia missiles but no launchers, sources say
Tahawol: Kabul-Islamabad ties discussed
Tahawol: 79th session of UN General Assembly discussed
Tahawol: UNSC meeting on situation in Afghanistan reviewed
Tahawol: Central Asian countries’ demand to engage with Afghanistan discussed
Tahawol: UNSC to hold meeting on Afghanistan discussed
Trade between Afghanistan and Pakistan drops sharply
Construction of 252 MVA substation in Kabul’s Tarakhel gets underway
Energy minister, Indian company talk handover of Arghandi 500 KV substation
Baradar hails Termez Trade Center as a ‘new chapter’ in Afghan-Uzbek partnership
Bayat Power in talks with Afghan officials for Phase 2 of gas to electricity project
Afghan national cricket players return to Kabul after ODI series win against South Africa
France accused of ‘match-fixing’ over dismal performance against Iran at Futsal World Cup
South Africa win last game of ODI series against Afghanistan
Afghanistan advance to knockout stage of FIFA Futsal World Cup in Uzbekistan
Afghanistan’s Futsal WC fate hangs in balance
Did the US just get lured into war with the Houthis?
OPED: Is the West’s conscience being overshadowed by its political ego?
Peace won’t be found in silence or fear, says AIHRC chair
OPINION: The awful truth about growing up in Afghanistan
Published
on
By
Afghan National Security Advisor (NSA) Haneef Atmar on Tuesday met with NATO Deputy Secretary General Rose Gottemoeller and other high ranking officials at the allies Headquarters.
Afghan delegation has presented a four year development plan for the Afghan forces within the framework of the Resolute Support (RS) mission which is aimed to increase combat abilities of the Afghan forces.
We discussed "increasing the combat abilities of Afghanistan's National Security Forces (ANSF) as a part of a four-year road-map. We discussed a peace reconciliation. We talked about political reforms in Afghanistan and focused on electoral reforms, corruption and economic development," Mr. Atmar who was speaking with the reporters following the meeting at the NATO HQ said.
During his speech Afghan NSA said that he has seen enormous amount of support from the NATO, so he would leave to Afghanistan with a good impression.
At the same time, he added that Afghan forces had been fighting international terrorism on behalf of the whole world; therefore, they need US-led NATO air support in some key areas.
According to the office of the National Security Advisor of the President, the security plan, the anti-corruption proceedings by Afghan government and the Afghan peace deal with Hezb-i-Islami were backed by the NATO officials.
Deputy SG backed the 4yr development plan for ANDSF &the anti corruption proceedings by AFG Govt.said NATO would fully support AFG Govt.(6)
— Haneef Atmar (@NSAAtmar)February 7, 2017

On Afghanistan relation with the new administration of the United States, Atmar said that Afghanistan should be considered as an important partner of the United States.
"We are pleased to see that President Trump administration is assuring the Afghan people that United States will be committed to the partnership. It is important for the two nations who are together to neutralize the national security threats not just for Afghanistan and the United State, but for the entire region."
Meanwhile, he called Washington-Kabul partnership for common interests of the two nation in order to neutralize common threats.
This visit comes at a time when terrorist groups are trying to increase their operation across the country and experts believe that a counter-terrorism operation needed beyond Afghanistan to target the root of terrorism in the regional countries.
By: WARES NAYEL & HESAMUDDIN HESAM FEB. 8, 2017
New Year’s Eve 2020 Celebrations Across the World
Rosemary DiCarlo said the situation has been complicated by the IEA’s new morality law
Published
on
By
The head of UN political affairs, Rosemary DiCarlo, on Monday warned that the Doha process is at risk given the Islamic Emirate’s increasing restrictive policies.
Addressing a meeting on women’s rights in New York, ahead of the UN General Assembly, she said the Doha process “entails a step-for-step approach” with the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (IEA), requiring them to, for example, make governance more inclusive, and to respect women’s and girl’s rights.
In exchange, the international community would then incrementally ease restrictions and provide development support.
DiCarlo said the situation has been complicated by the IEA’s new morality law.
“We had Member States willing to engage, willing to go forward with a step-for-step project. However, I think we risk right now of ending this process,” she warned.
“At this point, those who've been participating in our process want to continue, but they really expect the Taliban (IEA) to take part in good faith, and they've got to start abiding by their international obligations.”
She emphasized that “engagement is key”, stressing that “we cannot let Afghan women and men down.”
The general debate of the 79th session of the General Assembly opened Tuesday, 24 September, and will continue through Saturday, 28 September, and conclude on Monday, 30 September 2024.
The theme for the general debate of the 79th session of the General Assembly is "Leaving no one behind: acting together for the advancement of peace, sustainable development and human dignity for present and future generations".


The UN chief stressed that the oppression of women undermines Afghanistan’s development
Published
on
By
UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres on Monday warned that Afghanistan’s new laws "strip Afghan women and girls of their rights and freedoms across the board," and are causing harm to the nation.
Speaking on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly in New York, Guterres said there was "a deep crisis of gender-based discrimination and oppression" against women in Afghanistan.
"Afghan women and girls are largely confined to their homes, with no freedom of movement and almost no access to education or work," said the UN chief.
Stating that Afghan women also suffer high rates of violence, honor killings, and rising maternal mortality, he said many feel "unsafe, isolated and powerless."
The UN chief stressed that the oppression of women undermines Afghanistan's development and said: "Extreme gender-based discrimination is not only a systematic abuse of women and girls and a violation of human rights conventions and laws. It is self-harm on a national scale."
He called on Afghan authorities to remove all restrictions against women and girls, reopen schools, and allow women to fully participate in society.
"Without recognizing the rights of one-half of its population, Afghanistan will never take its rightful place on the global stage," Guterres said.
The ruling Islamic Emirate has however repeatedly said that women’s rights are ensured in Afghanistan in accordance with Sharia law.
Zia Ahmad Takal, Deputy Spokesman of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said the absence of an IEA representative at the summit was a violation of the rights of the people of Afghanistan.
Published
on
By
Afghanistan’s foreign ministry has lashed out at the United Nations for not inviting an Islamic Emirate representative to attend the 79th UN General Assembly which gets underway in New York on Tuesday.
Zia Ahmad Takal, Deputy Spokesman of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said the absence of an IEA representative at the summit was a violation of the rights of the people of Afghanistan.
He said given the situation in the country, positive decisions should be made by the international community with regards to the country.
The Islamic Emirate appointed Suhail Shaheen as the permanent representative of Afghanistan to the United Nations, but the UN has not yet handed over the seat to the IEA.
The 79th UN General Assembly, deemed one of the largest global diplomatic events, will get underway on Tuesday in New York.
The General Assembly is held annually at UN headquarters in New York, bringing together the heads of state and government of member states. It is to take place from Sept. 24 to 30.
The 79th session will be opened by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and will be chaired by Cameroonian President Philemon Yong.
At least 133 heads of state and government, three vice presidents, 80 deputy prime ministers and 45 ministers are expected to attend.
UN leaders are meeting as numerous crises, conflicts and wars play out around the world.
Many of these, including Gaza, Ukraine, Sudan and Haiti crises are expected to be on the agenda.
On Gaza, along with emphasizing a cease-fire, member states are expected to highlight Israel’s violations of international law and UN resolutions, as well as the difficulties in delivering humanitarian aid to the region, Anadolu reported.
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas is scheduled to speak the morning of Sept. 26, while Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is scheduled for the afternoon.
This year, the main theme of the UN General Assembly discussions is "Leaving no one behind: acting together for the advancement of peace, sustainable development and human dignity for present and future generations."
"Today's global order simply does not work for everyone. In fact, I would go further and say: it's not working for anyone," said Guterres.
Therefore, it is expected that leaders will address the reform of the Security Council and the international financial architecture.

Pakistani minister calls for increased foreign aid for Afghan refugees
Iran through to knockout phase after defeating Guatemala in Futsal World Cup
South Africa confirms it will continue playing bilateral cricket with Afghanistan
Israel unleashes heavy strikes on Lebanon as US, UK urge restraint
Tahawol: UNSC meeting on situation in Afghanistan reviewed
Miller accuses House Republicans of subpoenaing Blinken over Afghanistan when he’s away
More than 100 killed or missing as Sinaloa Cartel war rages in Mexico
Afghanistan hand South Africa another heavy defeat
Copyright © 2024 Ariana News. All rights reserved!

Title: 
4 Haqqani militants killed in eastern Afghan drone strike: official - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KHOST, Afghanistan, Feb. 2 (Xinhua) -- Four members of Haqqani militant group were killed by an airstrike in Afghanistan's eastern province of Khost overnight, a local source said on Thursday.
"A pilotless plane of the NATO-led coalition forces conducted a strike on a moving vehicle in Manji, a locality in Sabari district Wednesday night, killing four members of Haqqani network and destroying their vehicle," the source told Xinhua on condition of anonymity.
The initial information confirmed the identity of the killed militants. They were namely Rezha Noor, Yousuf, Raifour and Mujeeb, the source added.
Provincial police Chief Gen. Faizullah Ghairt has confirmed the strike in the district, northern of provincial capital Khost city, 150 km southeast of national capital of Kabul.
As a Taliban-linked group of militants, the Haqqani network mostly operating in eastern provinces and Kabul, has been responsible for many high-profile attacks against security forces.
The coalition forces have intensified drone attacks against the militants' hideouts and training centers when the Afghan security forces are engaged in major offensives against the Taliban and other militants across the mountainous country.
The militant network, which was designated as terrorist group by the United States in 2012, has yet to make comments.

KHOST, Afghanistan, Feb. 2 (Xinhua) -- Four members of Haqqani militant group were killed by an airstrike in Afghanistan's eastern province of Khost overnight, a local source said on Thursday.
"A pilotless plane of the NATO-led coalition forces conducted a strike on a moving vehicle in Manji, a locality in Sabari district Wednesday night, killing four members of Haqqani network and destroying their vehicle," the source told Xinhua on condition of anonymity.
The initial information confirmed the identity of the killed militants. They were namely Rezha Noor, Yousuf, Raifour and Mujeeb, the source added.
Provincial police Chief Gen. Faizullah Ghairt has confirmed the strike in the district, northern of provincial capital Khost city, 150 km southeast of national capital of Kabul.
As a Taliban-linked group of militants, the Haqqani network mostly operating in eastern provinces and Kabul, has been responsible for many high-profile attacks against security forces.
The coalition forces have intensified drone attacks against the militants' hideouts and training centers when the Afghan security forces are engaged in major offensives against the Taliban and other militants across the mountainous country.
The militant network, which was designated as terrorist group by the United States in 2012, has yet to make comments.

Copyright © 2000 - 2015 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.

Title:  页面没有找到 


Title: No title found


Title: Yahoo Search - Web Search
As of August 26th, 2021 Yahoo India will no longer be publishing content. Your Yahoo Account, Mail and Search experiences will not be affected in any way and will operate as usual. We thank you for your support and readership.