Title: Afghan, Iranian Officials Spar over Tehran’s Support for Taliban | Middle East Institute








Ahmad Majidyar
The Iranian and Afghan delegations to the 136th assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union have had acrimonious exchanges over Tehran’s support for the Taliban, the Iranian media reports. According to Iran’sTabnak News Agency, Afghanistan’s representative to the IPU summit had accused the Iranian government of having contacts with and providing assistance to the Taliban militants in Afghanistan – prompting an angry reaction from the Iranian team. “Today [April 3], Afghanistan’s representative made unfounded claims about Iran’s support to the Taliban at this summit. The allegation that Iran has ties with and supports the Taliban is astounding and laughable,” said Gholam Ali Jafarzadeh Imenabadi, who heads the Iranian delegation at the IPU meeting being held in Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh. “This allegation is made while Iran has been among the main victims of the Taliban,” he added, referring to the killing of Iranian government officials in northern Afghanistan by the Taliban in late 1990s.
The Iranian lawmaker cautioned the Afghan officials that they “should abstain from illogical and damaging remarks and should not be influenced ill-wishers of relations between the two countries.” Imenabadi also noted that Iran has been hosting millions of Afghan refugees over the past decades and warned that such allegations would not benefit Afghanistan and its interests.
Comment: Iran’s support for the Taliban is not new. Since the 2001 U.S. intervention that toppled the Taliban regime, Iran has played both sides of the Afghan conflict. While Tehran has fostered close relations with Kabul and has contributed to Afghanistan’s reconstruction efforts, the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (I.R.G.C.) and its elite Quds Force have trained, sheltered, funded and armed Taliban militants to under the U.S.-led stabilization efforts in Afghanistan and pressure the Kabul government for political concessions. But Iran’s support for the Taliban has been measured and calculated in order to avoid a strong response from Kabul or Washington.
Afghan and U.S. officials, however, say that the Iranian government has recently deepened its ties with the Taliban leadership, has set up military training camps inside Iran, and is providing more sophisticated weapons to the terrorists, mainly in western and southern Afghan provinces. What has made the Afghan government and its allies particularly worried lately is that Iran hasteamed up with Russiato support the Taliban against the U.S. presence in Afghanistan. Last month, Army Gen. Curtis Scaparrotti, the head of the U.S. military's European Command and the Supreme Allied Commander for NATO,warnedthat "I've seen the influence of Russia of late, increased influence in terms of association and perhaps even supply to the Taliban." And in February, the top U.S. commander in Afghanistan, Gen. John Nicholson,saidRussia and Iran were supporting the Taliban in part to undermine the U.S. and NATO mission in Afghanistan.
Senior Afghan officials have expressed similar concerns. “We have received [intelligence] reports that Iran has obtained some weapons from Russia and delivered them to the Taliban. We cannot confirm it 100 percent. But intelligence reports show that the Taliban receive training inside Iran,”Afghanistan’s Ariana Newsquoted Gulbahar Mujahid, the chief security commander of Farah Province, in a report published on March 23.
While Afghan leaders are always vocal about Pakistan’s support to the Taliban, they have largely been silent about the Iran’s ties with the terrorist group. But as Iran’s support to the Taliban is expanding, Afghan leaders – particularly members of parliament and security officials – have recently become more vocal in their criticism of Iran. The latest exchange of tense words between Afghan and Iranian lawmakers are just one example.
Imenabadi is right in that the Taliban is not a natural ally to the Islamic Republic. Taliban is a reactionary Sunni militant group that massacred Afghan Shiites in late 1990s, and Iran and the Taliban almost went to war two decades ago. But Tehran now sees the presence of the American troops along its eastern border as a bigger threat, and is therefore helping the Taliban to expedite the withdrawal of foreign troops from Afghanistan. And in this endeavor, Tehran and Moscow are pursuing a similar objective. The Russian ambassador to Kabul recentlysaidthat Moscow supports the Taliban call for American troops to leave Afghanistan. A secondary common objective for Tehran and Moscow is to use their leverage with the Taliban to prevent the emergence of the Islamic State from gaining a foothold in Afghanistan and threatening the security of Iran and Central Asia.
The Middle East Institute (MEI) is an independent, non-partisan, non-for-profit, educational organization. It does not engage in advocacy and its scholars’ opinions are their own. MEI welcomes financial donations, but retains sole editorial control over its work and its publications reflect only the authors’ views. For a listing of MEI donors, please clickhere.
media@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x241
events@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x202
development@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x203
mej@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x205
communications@mei.edu
202-785-1141
Middle East Institute1763 N St. NW, Washington D.C. 20036

© 2018 Middle East Institute All Rights Reserved |Accessibility Policy| Built bySocial Driver.

Title: Afghanistan Peace Conference in Moscow---- A strategy to hold Daesh at Amu Darya than on the Volga River
By Agha Iqrar Haroon
Political developments in and around Afghanistan are too fast to catch. Taliban were reluctant to talk with Afghan government in past but now Afghan Government and Taliban are ready to sit together in 11-party “Afghanistan Peace Conference” scheduled to be held in Moscow on April 14.
Washington has regretted to attend “Afghanistan Peace Conference”, stating that it would support any initiative that can bring peace into Afghanistan. Meanwhile, US authorities claim that host country—Russia is supplying weapons to Taliban.
Pakistan, China, Russia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Iran are working together to stop Daesh in Afghanistan due to the proximity of Afghanistan to their borders while India does not wish to leave Afghan peace talks because it has become a “stakeholder” in Afghan issue since its inclusion in “Heart of Asia—the Istanbul Process” that was established in November 2011.
Situation in Afghanistan has become complex after abrupt rise of Daesh due to vacuum created in southern  areas after Taliban disappeared from Konar, Khost, Nagharhar, Paktia, Logar, Paktika and Zabul provinces in late 2015.
Taliban claim that leaving Konar, Khost, Nagharhar, Paktia, Logar, Paktika and Zabul and moving towards Northern areas was their strategy to gain their positions in provinces where Taliban had no access in past including Kanduz where they had never been before in power even during their rule over 70% of Afghanistan (Year 1995-2001).  Taliban successfully consolidated their positions in provinces bordering Iran, Pakistan and Turkmenistan including Nimruz, Farah, Herat, Helmand and Kandahar.
There is no doubt that Central Asian states are scare of Daesh phenomenon therefore they are ready to accept presence of Taliban at their borders because they believe that Taliban would resist rise of Daesh towards Central Asian borders.“Choice between the two evils is the “only choice left” with Central Asian states, commented a former intelligence officer when he was asked to comment over latest situation in Afghanistan.
Pro-US circles in Kabul claim that Taliban are getting weaponry support from Russia as well as from Pakistan. However, Afghan government is avoiding accusing Russia officially for supporting Taliban. These circles actually rebroadcast allegations leveled by General John Nicholson, Commander of the U.S. and NATO Forces in Afghanistan who said that Russians were supplying weapons to Taliban.
Sane elements sitting in government of President Ashraf Ghani accept privately that Kabul is losing its writ in almost every province of the war-torn country.
Last week, Taliban fighters captured Tala Wa Barfak district and also captured the strategic district of Sangin. Local Afghan commanders and military officials confirmed to US media that Sangin district is no more with Afghan government.
Reports coming from Kabul suggest that extensive fighting is going on between Afghan security forces and Taliban fighters in Baghlan province since March 23.
Russian strategic circles believe that Taliban would gain ground by every passing day to solidify their position to have bargain edge over Afghan government in forthcoming Moscow talks.
Russia is providing weapons to Taliban or not is a debatable point but there is no doubt that Afghan establishment is habitual of blaming others of almost everything that goes wrong inside Afghanistan. Russians claim that they wish a peaceful solution of 35 year long Afghan civil war and want to stop advances of Islamic State (Daesh) towards Central Asian States. “Better to fight Islamists on Amu Daryan than on the Volga”, is the strategy opted by Putin administration.
Russia is afraid of rise of Daesh in Afghanistan because Daesh can infect former Russian states including Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan. Russia imports over 40% workforce from Tajikistan and Uzbekistan for its construction industry. If these two countries are infected with radicalization, then it would be a great threat to Russia because citizens of these countries do not need visas to travel and work in Russia.
Russia is openly criticising Afghan government for its defeats and believes that Afghan government must sit with Taliban and try to take Afghanistan out of civil war. Certain elements in Kabul ruling elite considers Russian attempt to broker peace as “moral support” to Taliban because President Ashraf Ghani and his team did not wish to talk to Taliban in past and believed that they could defeat Taliban with the support of NATO and US soldiers.
Sources claim that Afghan government is ready to sit with Taliban in Moscow owing demand come from Chinese government because China is the biggest investor in Afghanistan but has halted all mega projects due to grave security situation.
It may be mentioned that Russia hosted a Trilateral meeting in Moscow in December 2016 that was attended by China and Pakistan.
Trilateral meeting cautioned that influence of Daesh is (was) growing in Afghanistan. Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova after Trilateral meeting in Moscow said that peace in Afghanistan has (had) become top priority of Kremlin after rise of Daesh.
It is worth mentioning that Russia took initiative of holding trilateral meeting in Moscow after failure of China, Pakistan, United States and Afghanistan to get any result out of their “Quadripartite talks”.
Russian think tanks believe that US can act as “spoiler” in forthcoming Moocow Conference because it (US) has failed to bring peace to Afghanistan even after using brute force along with NATO countries for 15 years.
“Can US allow Russia to broker peace in Afghanistan successfully?” is the question which would be answered by future only.
Disclaimer:
The views and opinions expressed in this article/Opinion/Comment are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of the Dispatch News Desk (DND). Assumptions made within the analysis are not reflective of the position of Dispatch News Desk.
Dispatch News Desk is an award-winning News Agency of Pakistan founded by Agha Iqrar Haroon, a well-knownesearch journalist and political analyst in 2013

Title:  Afghanistan refutes Russia's support to Taliban's demand for foreign troop withdrawl | Catch News
Reacting to Russia supporting Taliban's calls for withdrawal of foreign troops from the country, Afghanistan said that Kabul has the sovereignty to decide the matter and that no one else has the right to dictate terms or issue instructions regarding the same.
The remarks were made by Presidential spokesman Shah Hussain Murtazawi, reports Khaama Press.
He said that the issue relates to the Afghan nation and it is up to the Afghan Government to decide regarding the presence of foreign forces or forces belonging to international allies.
This comes as the Russian special envoy for Afghanistan Zamir Kabulov earlier endorsed Taliban militants group's call for the withdrawal of all foreign forces from Afghanistan.
"Of course it's justified" for the Taliban to oppose the foreign military presence," Kabulov said during an interview.
Kabulov further added "Who's in favor? Name me one neighboring state that supports it."
The latest remarks by Kabulov come in the wake of concerns by U.S. officials regarding the growing attempts by Moscow to strengthen links with the Taliban group.
Last week, U.S. Defense Secretary James Mattis said Washington is concerned Russia's presence in Afghanistan and its interactions with Taliban fighters
Authorities in US military had earlier accused Moscow of supporting the Taliban insurgency, a claim Russia refuted as an attempt to tarnish the image of the country.
-ANI


Title: Slot Deposit 5000 : Situs Slot Gacor Depo 5k Minimal Deposit 5rb
Slot Deposit 5000
SLOT DEPOSIT 5000

Daftar situs link slot deposit 5000 tanpa potongan, slot depo 5k, slot gacor minimal deposit 5rb. Tersedia cara slot deposit via dana 5000 hingga 24 jam disini!

Title: ORF
0results found
ORF © 2024Website Design and Development bySterco Digitex

Title: What did the ‘monster of all bombs’ target in Afghanistan? 
Transforming Contingent Workforce Management with Cutting-Edge Program Strategies
Meet woman with Rs 39322 crore net worth, who once led Rs 59262 crore company, she is India's richest...
Jatadhara makers Prerna Arora, Sudheer Babu Productions reveal striking second poster of supernatural epic
'Thunder Thighs': Meet Bollywood actress who said no to Phool Aur Kaante and Prem Qaidi, became superstar after...
MAMI film festival to kickstart with over 110 films in 50 languages, it’ll begin in Mumbai on…
World
Corps Diplomatique Column | America’s Afghanistan policy is still up for deciphering under the new Trump administration.
Kabir Taneja
Updated :Apr 17, 2017, 10:08 AM IST
On the evening of April 13, the United States deployed for the first time in a combat zone its GBU-43/B Massive Ordinance Air Blast Bomb (MOAB) in an active combat zone, making the weapon the third highest yield explosive ever used by any military. US Central Command announced the use of the MOAB, which was first cleared for operational use by the Obama administration, as being successful in “destroying” a maze of underground caves in the ISIS stronghold in Nangarhar, in Afghanistan's troubled Achin province.
This strike orchestrated under President Donald Trump’s ambit could have significant implications for Afghanistan, a country embroiled in an ‘infinity war’ since the 1990s when the Taliban took over and installed a pariah state. Later on, the US campaign post 9/11 to dislodge the Taliban, an entity US helped create to take on the former Soviet Union, saw controlled success with a pro-West government developed under the leadership of former president Hamid Karzai. However, despite initial success against the Taliban, the US and its allies have started to lose ground yet again, with the terror organization making small yet steady comebacks in the country, specifically in and around Helmand province in the south.
However, the launch of the MOAB that has captured global headlines, and perhaps more importantly, catapulted Afghanistan’s precarious security situation back into American prime time headlines has a different target than the Taliban. The bomb was launched, possibly from a customized USAF C-130 Hercules aircraft, to target a maze of caves in and around Achin used by the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), ISIS’s loosely attached Afghanistan chapter which was launched in 2015 under the watchful eyes of Abu Mohammed al-Adnani, who was killed last year in a drone strike in Aleppo, Syria.
America’s Afghanistan policy is still up for deciphering under the new administration, despite use of the MOAB. All eyes are now on Lt Gen H.R. McMaster, President Donald Trump’s second attempt at filling the coveted National Security Advisor position after the resignation of former-NSA Michael Flynn. McMaster is on his first tour of Kabul, Islamabad and New Delhi, with Afghanistan’s security being in jeopardy and both Pakistan and India being major influences and partners for the country’s future, the former via spreading terrorism and latter via funding developmental projects in the country.
The ISKP, however, is an entity punching above its weight in the threat perceptions that make up Afghanistan’s security discourse. While the Taliban still remains the main challenge to the government in Kabul by a long mile, the attack on ISKP by the US had multiple reasons, very few of them having much to do with the terror group’s validity in itself. The strike, as per reports, killed nearly 100 jihadists, including high-ranking ISKP leaders. However, the question that needs to be asked is, what exactly is the ISKP in Afghanistan and what warranted such a military strike by Washington D.C.?
The answer to the origins of ISKP is not surprising. “The IS fighters who pioneered the Khorasan franchise of the IS were Pakistani militants who had long been settled in the southeastern districts of Nangarhar, in the Spin Ghar mountains or its foothills, bordering the tribal agencies on the Pakistani side of the Durand Line”, explains researcher Borhan Osman in a paper published by the Afghanistan Analysts Network (AAN), a Kabul based think tank.
Most of the fighters in the ISKP brand are former Pakistan Taliban (TTP) members, who had been fleeing military operations being conducted by the Pakistani armed forces in the country’s tribal areas such as FATA, Waziristan and so on. These jihadists arrived into the Achin province and Nazian under the cover of being refugees, and were initially settled by local villages with a sympathetic outlook towards them for being Pashtuns. These “refugees” used this situation to look for new avenues to go back to their premiere career paths, terrorism, and started to develop an environment and infrastructure (madrasas and so on) for the same.
The ISKP is another brand in the convoluted yet prevailing cottage industry of Afghanistan’s jihadist complex, where terrorism is seen by many fighters more with a career lens than an ideological or political one, unlike the Taliban. Like any other career, jihadists look for a better paying role, and allegiance to a group often is not of the primary concern in this theatre of war. The role of the ISKP was to take up brutal violence in the Achin area of Afghanistan; however, the group never gained enough popularity or human strength to expand its reach. As per available research, not more than 1,400 ISKP fighters exist, and no major commanders from central Asia who have fought in either Syria or Iraq had tried to take control of ISKP’s operations despite the panache with which Adnani launched the franchise. The ISKP gained prominence with the ISIS branding; however, operationally they still remain smaller than even some tribal leaders in the region. These leaders, in fact, used the likes of ISKP to launch violence on other tribal leaders over territory, prominence, and regional power.
The launch of the MOAB on ISKP and Achin had more than one aim, and perhaps had a message for North Korea by the Trump administration, another, more complex theatre of geo-political tensions which involves nuclear weapons. By orchestrating a strike on the ISKP at this magnitude, the United States administration may have signaled its intent to Pyongyang, showcasing the strength of its non-nuclear strike capability as well. However, in Afghanistan, it is the Taliban and Pakistan’s intelligence apparatus that remains in cahoots with the Afghan jihadist complex that is the single biggest threat to not just Afghanistan’s future, but the extended region’s stability as well. New Delhi should make clear to NSA McMaster of the increasing instability in Afghanistan, the Taliban’s resurgence, and for America to not forget that its Afghanistan project also cost more than 2,300 US military deaths. Leaving the country without a valid conclusion after waging a war for 15 years is not an option that the Trump administration should entertain.
Kabir Taneja is an Associate Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation.
Lok Sabha Elections 2024: Anupamaa' Star Rupali Ganguly Joins BJP, Says 'Big Fan' Of PM Modi
Salman Khan House Firing Case: Accused Anuj Thapan Dies By Suicide In Mumbai Police Custody
Lok Sabha Elections 2024: Congress' Rahul Gandhi-Amethi Suspense Making BJP Nervous? | Uttar Pradesh
Delhi Bomb Threat: Who Is Behind The Hoax Bomb Threat That Shut Down Hundred Schools In Delhi?
Bangladesh Protest: Unreal Scenes In Country After fresh Wave Of Protests |Sheikh Hasina

Title: What makes Parachinar hotbed of terrorism - Daily Times
Daily Times
Your right to knowTuesday, September 24, 2024
Islamabad

Marvi Sirmed
April 2, 2017

ISLAMABAD:The recent deadly attack on Parachinar was not the first one this year. In fact, sect-based attacks on Shias in Parachinar are not a new phenomenon. The conflict dates back to the colonial era and has been erupting every Muharram since the 19th century. But in recent years, especially after the advent of Sunni deobandi sectarian organisations in the wake of Afghan Jihad in 1980s and religious revolution in Iran in 1979, this conflict became worse. It only got worst after Pakistan’s tribal areas became sanctuaries of Sunni deobandi terrorist groups of all ilk in the post-9/11 Pakistan.
Kurram is one of the seven tribal Agencies of FATA and is divided in three distinct regions of Upper Kurram, Central Kurram and Lower Kurram. Upper Kurram is predominantly Shia whereas Central & Lower Kurram are Sunni majority areas. The Agency stretching over more than 3000 square kilometers is bordered with the North Waziristan in the South, Hangu, Orakzai and Khyber Agency in the East, whilst it shares its border with Afghanistan’s area of Nangarhar in the North West and with Paktia province in South West.
Both these Afghan provinces have been strongholds of Afghan Taliban and Haqqani network. In fact, many districts of Paktia and Nangarhar were fallen to Taliban in last two years. In 2016 however, Islamic State in Khurasan Province (ISKP) took many Nangarhar districts from Taliban, few of which Taliban have captured back.
But because of the strong presence of these terrorists groups across the border, Kurram became excellent sanctuary for Pakistan based terrorist groups, who work in mutual cooperation at operational level, with the Afghan terrorist groups. In lieu of safe havens in each other’s area of influence on both sides of border, these groups provide on-ground operational support to each other – a fact contested by the security agencies however.
The arrival of ISKP in this Taliban-Taliban equation on both sides of Kurram-Nangarhar border has been used by Pakistan based militant groups, all of whom are anti-Shia across the board. Shia majority of Upper Kurram has been sandwiched between the anti-Shia Haqqanis & Afghan Taliban on Afghan side and a mix of terrorist outfits like Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), Lashkar-e-Jhangavi (LeJ) etc. in Central and Lower Kurram. This siege like situation continued for more than a year and half in 2008-9, when Pakistan’s security agencies launched Operation Koh-i-Sufaid I and II, which concluded in 2011 and 2012 respectively.
Parachinar being the headquarter of Kurram Agency and the central city in Shia majority Upper Kurram, has been under attack by these terrorist outfits since 2005. This seat of Shias enveloped by Sunni militant groups on all sides is strategically very important for these groups to cross the border to reach sanctuaries in Afghanistan. It was for this reason that TTP, LeJ and latter Jamaat-ul-Ahrar have kept attacking it for not only ideological reasons – to eliminate Shias – but also for the strategic reasons – to get safe passage across the border. This importance increased with every operation starting from Rah-e-Nijaat in South Waziristan that pushed these militant groups in North Waziristan bordering Parachinar in south. From 2009 onwards when CIA’s drone strikes in North Waziristan were intensified, these groups started relocating gradually to Kurram, from where they needed passage to Paktia and Nangarhar. It was, thus, important for them to keep Parachinar troubled and uproot well equipped Shia groups from there so there won’t be any resistance for them.
Looking at the trajectory of terrorist attacks in Parachinar, the period from 2013 to 2016 has been the bloodiest. At an average, there have been attacks in Parachinar every three months. From July to December in 2013 alone, there were 8 attacks. Since January this year, Parachinar has had two deadly attacks killing dozens.
Despite the claims of clearing 95% territory in Kurram Agency in the wake of Op Koh-i-Sufaid and Operation Khwakh Ba De Sham (I will fix you), cantonment in Parachinar, military posts and massive operations in neighboring Orakzai and Khyber Agencies, a wide ranging Zarb-e-Azb operation and recently launched Radd-ul-Fasaad Operation, the plight of Kurram’s helpless Shia population has not changed. The impunity with which the groups like LeJ, JuA, JeM etc. are working reflects really badly on Pakistan’s efforts against terrorists organisations across the board.
The recent situation must raise antennas in Pakistan and Afghanistan both. Terrorists especially the ISKP and allied groups are taking advantage of tensions between the two countries. Moreover, providing havens to JuA and TTP on Afghan side would prove very dangerous for Afghanistan itself, as these groups are ideologically aligned with ISKP. The Pakistan side must also think again about the Afghan Taliban without whose operational support TTP’s JuA faction and LeJ cannot afford to operate. Despite working closely with ISKP, none of these groups have withdrawn their oath of allegiance to Afghan Taliban.
This dangerous episode of great game must be concluded by both the states of Afghanistan and Pakistan. This strategic game, otherwise, would worsen the sectarian conflict in the rest of areas of both countries especially Pakistan.




More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category

HomeLead StoriesLatest NewsEditor’s Picks
CultureLife & StyleFeaturedVideos
EditorialsOP-EDSCommentaryAdvertise
CartoonsLettersBlogsPrivacy Policy
ContactCompany’s FinancialsInvestor InformationTerms & Conditions
FacebookTwitterInstagramYoutube
Copyright © 2024 Daily TimesWebsite Developed ByDaily Times Developers

Title: US Urges Russia, Pakistan To End Support For Afghan Taliban
Print
The United States is calling on regional countries, including Russia and Pakistan, not to support the Taliban in their bid to “perpetuate the very long war” in Afghanistan.
U.S. National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster made the remarks Sunday after talks with Afghan leaders on his first trip to Kabul since taking office.
Afghan officials said the discussions focused on bilateral security matters, fighting regional terrorism and strengthening the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces, or ANDSF.
McMaster told local TOLOnews that Taliban insurgents who refuse to engage in a government-led peace and reconciliation process must be defeated on the battlefield. He said the United States is committed to strengthen Afghan forces to enable them to achieve that objective.
He would not say whether President Donald Trump will send more troops to Afghanistan once his administration concludes its review of the Afghan policy.
McMaster’s visit follows calls by U.S. military commanders for adding “a few thousand” more troops to the roughly 8,400 American troops already in Afghanistan.
“No one should support the Taliban. No one should support armed resistance against the Afghan government and the Afghan people,” the adviser said when asked to comment on Russia’s overt contacts with the Taliban.
“What we would like is all countries in the region to play a productive role, a positive role and to help the Afghan people rather than to try to perpetuate this very long conflict,” he said.
McMaster said, without elaborating, that those who are perpetuating and helping cause the Afghan violence “ought to be exposed and held accountable.”
Russia last week hosted a new round of multi-nation talks on security and peace prospects for Afghanistan. Pakistan, China, Iran, India, Afghanistan and five former Soviet Central Asian states were among the participants. The meeting ended with Moscow offering to host peace talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban, though the insurgent group had already dismissed the conference as an event motivated by the political agendas of the organizers.
The American adviser on Monday will travel to neighboring Pakistan, which is accused of harboring Taliban sanctuaries on its soil and covertly supporting the insurgents. He emphasized the need for Islamabad to pursue its interests in Afghanistan through diplomacy and not through violence.
“As all of us have hoped for many many years, we have hoped that Pakistani leaders will understand that it is in their interest to go after these groups less selectively than they have in the past, and the best way to pursue their interests in Afghanistan and elsewhere is through diplomacy, not through the use of proxies that engage in violence,” McMaster said.
Responding to Thursday’s massive bomb attack by the U.S. military against the stronghold of Islamic State in the eastern Afghan province of Nangarhar, McMaster said the terrorist group threatens all civilized people and must be defeated.
“Well, it is not just the bomb but it is really what our soldiers are doing every day alongside courageous Afghan soldiers, fighting Daesh, ensuring that these people who victimized women, who shoot people in hospital beds, we cannot tolerate the existence of that kind of an organization,” he said.



Title: US Urges Russia, Pakistan To End Support For Afghan Taliban
Print
The United States is calling on regional countries, including Russia and Pakistan, not to support the Taliban in their bid to “perpetuate the very long war” in Afghanistan.
U.S. National Security Adviser H.R. McMaster made the remarks Sunday after talks with Afghan leaders on his first trip to Kabul since taking office.
Afghan officials said the discussions focused on bilateral security matters, fighting regional terrorism and strengthening the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces, or ANDSF.
McMaster told local TOLOnews that Taliban insurgents who refuse to engage in a government-led peace and reconciliation process must be defeated on the battlefield. He said the United States is committed to strengthen Afghan forces to enable them to achieve that objective.
He would not say whether President Donald Trump will send more troops to Afghanistan once his administration concludes its review of the Afghan policy.
McMaster’s visit follows calls by U.S. military commanders for adding “a few thousand” more troops to the roughly 8,400 American troops already in Afghanistan.
“No one should support the Taliban. No one should support armed resistance against the Afghan government and the Afghan people,” the adviser said when asked to comment on Russia’s overt contacts with the Taliban.
“What we would like is all countries in the region to play a productive role, a positive role and to help the Afghan people rather than to try to perpetuate this very long conflict,” he said.
McMaster said, without elaborating, that those who are perpetuating and helping cause the Afghan violence “ought to be exposed and held accountable.”
Russia last week hosted a new round of multi-nation talks on security and peace prospects for Afghanistan. Pakistan, China, Iran, India, Afghanistan and five former Soviet Central Asian states were among the participants. The meeting ended with Moscow offering to host peace talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban, though the insurgent group had already dismissed the conference as an event motivated by the political agendas of the organizers.
The American adviser on Monday will travel to neighboring Pakistan, which is accused of harboring Taliban sanctuaries on its soil and covertly supporting the insurgents. He emphasized the need for Islamabad to pursue its interests in Afghanistan through diplomacy and not through violence.
“As all of us have hoped for many many years, we have hoped that Pakistani leaders will understand that it is in their interest to go after these groups less selectively than they have in the past, and the best way to pursue their interests in Afghanistan and elsewhere is through diplomacy, not through the use of proxies that engage in violence,” McMaster said.
Responding to Thursday’s massive bomb attack by the U.S. military against the stronghold of Islamic State in the eastern Afghan province of Nangarhar, McMaster said the terrorist group threatens all civilized people and must be defeated.
“Well, it is not just the bomb but it is really what our soldiers are doing every day alongside courageous Afghan soldiers, fighting Daesh, ensuring that these people who victimized women, who shoot people in hospital beds, we cannot tolerate the existence of that kind of an organization,” he said.



Title: Two US troops killed in same Afghanistan valley where massive bomb was dropped - World Socialist Web Site
Two US special operations troops were killed Wednesday night in a firefight with elements of the Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP) in the Achin district of Afghanistan’s eastern Nangarhar province. A third American soldier was wounded.
The site of the battle was the same valley where the US dropped the GBU-43 Massive Ordnance Air Blast bomb, the so-called “mother of all bombs,” on April 13. The huge conventional weapon is the most destructive bomb dropped anywhere since the US atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945.
Afghanistan government sources claimed that 40 ISKP militants were killed in the battle and another 13 captured.
The ISKP itself issued a statement that claimed that its fighters had thwarted an attempted US airdrop of Special Forces units into the area. It added that the American operation was accompanied by intensive air strikes and artillery bombardment, which it said killed around 100 civilians, most of them women and children.
Whatever the truth of either side’s account of the battle, the fact that such intense combat resulting in US losses was conducted in the same area where the Pentagon dropped its largest nonnuclear bomb raises serious questions about the effectiveness of the weapon and the real purpose pursued with its deployment.
Independent observers have been prevented from reaching the area of the bomb blast by US forces, and the real number of casualties it inflicted, both among the Islamic State militants and civilians, remains unknown.
It is apparent, however, that the dropping of the bomb was meant to serve as a “message” directed not merely to the rather small group of Islamist militants on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border, but rather to other targets of US military escalation, including North Korea, Iran, Russia and China.
The timing of the bombing, one day before Russia hosted a conference in Moscow to discuss an Afghanistan peace settlement—attended by all of the countries of the region, but boycotted by Washington—appears more than coincidental.
The Pentagon, meanwhile, has issued a steady drumbeat of charges that Russia is providing assistance and arms to the Taliban insurgency. US Defense Secretary James Mattis and the top US commander in Afghanistan, Gen. John Nicholson, echoed these charges during Mattis’s emergency trip to Kabul on Monday.
Russia has strongly denied providing the Taliban with such aid. Nonetheless, Moscow clearly sees the growth of ISIS, which in Syria includes significant numbers of Islamist volunteers from the Caucasus, as a greater threat in Afghanistan than the Taliban. The two groups have fought each other in eastern Afghanistan.
Mattis’s visit to Kabul followed the bloodiest attack by the Taliban against the Afghan National Army since the US invasion in 2001. Taliban fighters, including sympathizers in the military, inflicted massive casualties on Afghan soldiers at a base in the northern provincial capital of Mazar-i-Sharif. TOLOnews, Afghanistan’s largest television broadcaster, has reported that the number of fatalities has topped 250, while accusing the government of “hiding the truth” about the death toll.
The latest US casualties bring the US death toll in Afghanistan to 2,217, with another 20,000 American troops wounded during nearly 16 years of war. The cost of the war has been estimated at over $1 trillion.
The war has cost an estimated 200,000 Afghan lives, while turning millions more into refugees. The United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) issued its latest casualty report on Thursday, listing 715 civilians killed and another 1,500 wounded during the first three months of this year.
While the overall death toll was very slightly lower than during the same period last year, the figures recorded the deaths of 273 women, a 24 percent increase, and 210 children, a three percent increase.
The main rise in the cause of civilian casualties was from US airstrikes, with 72 dead and 76 wounded. This compares to 29 casualties—eight dead and 21 wounded—in the first quarter of 2016. Undoubtedly, the UNAMA figures underestimate the real toll of the war.
There is every indication that the Pentagon is preparing another major escalation of the Afghanistan war, which under the Obama administration saw a “surge” that brought US troop levels to over 100,000, with no lasting impact in terms of consolidating the rule of the corrupt US puppet regime in Kabul.
Currently there are close to 9,000 US troops deployed in the country, together with several thousand other troops from NATO members, Australia and other countries. Gen. Nicholson, the US Afghanistan commander, indicated in Congressional testimony in February that he needed “a few thousand” more troops to combat the Taliban and other insurgents. He expressed confidence that he would get them.
President Donald Trump has turned over the management of US military operations—and indeed much of US foreign policy—to the cabal of recently retired and active duty generals who hold all the key security posts in the administration, together with the area commanders.
The Pentagon issued a statement Thursday reporting that “The president has delegated authority to the secretary of defense to determine force management levels (FML) for Iraq and Syria.”
The US military has already substantially increased the number of troops deployed in Iraq beyond the official limit of 5,000, using so-called “temporary” deployments to bring the real number to over 7,000. And, while troop levels in Syria had been capped at 500 special operations soldiers, the Pentagon sent several hundred Marines into northeastern Syria to set up an artillery firebase and dispatched a unit of Army Rangers equipped with Stryker combat vehicles to the area of Manbij in a bid to quell combat between the Turkish military and Kurdish militia fighters who serve as Washington’s main proxy ground troops in combat with ISIS in Syria. In addition, some 2,500 troops from the 82nd Airborne have been sent to Kuwait to serve as a reserve force that can be called into either country.
The Pentagon statement made no mention of Afghanistan, but it is highly probable that the Trump administration will grant the generals similar leeway in terms of escalating the longest war in US history.
From the outset, the WSWS exposed the lies of Washington that its illegal invasion of Afghanistan was an act of self-defense in response to the terrorist attacks of September 11.

Title: Two US troops killed in same Afghanistan valley where massive bomb was dropped - World Socialist Web Site
Two US special operations troops were killed Wednesday night in a firefight with elements of the Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP) in the Achin district of Afghanistan’s eastern Nangarhar province. A third American soldier was wounded.
The site of the battle was the same valley where the US dropped the GBU-43 Massive Ordnance Air Blast bomb, the so-called “mother of all bombs,” on April 13. The huge conventional weapon is the most destructive bomb dropped anywhere since the US atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945.
Afghanistan government sources claimed that 40 ISKP militants were killed in the battle and another 13 captured.
The ISKP itself issued a statement that claimed that its fighters had thwarted an attempted US airdrop of Special Forces units into the area. It added that the American operation was accompanied by intensive air strikes and artillery bombardment, which it said killed around 100 civilians, most of them women and children.
Whatever the truth of either side’s account of the battle, the fact that such intense combat resulting in US losses was conducted in the same area where the Pentagon dropped its largest nonnuclear bomb raises serious questions about the effectiveness of the weapon and the real purpose pursued with its deployment.
Independent observers have been prevented from reaching the area of the bomb blast by US forces, and the real number of casualties it inflicted, both among the Islamic State militants and civilians, remains unknown.
It is apparent, however, that the dropping of the bomb was meant to serve as a “message” directed not merely to the rather small group of Islamist militants on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border, but rather to other targets of US military escalation, including North Korea, Iran, Russia and China.
The timing of the bombing, one day before Russia hosted a conference in Moscow to discuss an Afghanistan peace settlement—attended by all of the countries of the region, but boycotted by Washington—appears more than coincidental.
The Pentagon, meanwhile, has issued a steady drumbeat of charges that Russia is providing assistance and arms to the Taliban insurgency. US Defense Secretary James Mattis and the top US commander in Afghanistan, Gen. John Nicholson, echoed these charges during Mattis’s emergency trip to Kabul on Monday.
Russia has strongly denied providing the Taliban with such aid. Nonetheless, Moscow clearly sees the growth of ISIS, which in Syria includes significant numbers of Islamist volunteers from the Caucasus, as a greater threat in Afghanistan than the Taliban. The two groups have fought each other in eastern Afghanistan.
Mattis’s visit to Kabul followed the bloodiest attack by the Taliban against the Afghan National Army since the US invasion in 2001. Taliban fighters, including sympathizers in the military, inflicted massive casualties on Afghan soldiers at a base in the northern provincial capital of Mazar-i-Sharif. TOLOnews, Afghanistan’s largest television broadcaster, has reported that the number of fatalities has topped 250, while accusing the government of “hiding the truth” about the death toll.
The latest US casualties bring the US death toll in Afghanistan to 2,217, with another 20,000 American troops wounded during nearly 16 years of war. The cost of the war has been estimated at over $1 trillion.
The war has cost an estimated 200,000 Afghan lives, while turning millions more into refugees. The United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) issued its latest casualty report on Thursday, listing 715 civilians killed and another 1,500 wounded during the first three months of this year.
While the overall death toll was very slightly lower than during the same period last year, the figures recorded the deaths of 273 women, a 24 percent increase, and 210 children, a three percent increase.
The main rise in the cause of civilian casualties was from US airstrikes, with 72 dead and 76 wounded. This compares to 29 casualties—eight dead and 21 wounded—in the first quarter of 2016. Undoubtedly, the UNAMA figures underestimate the real toll of the war.
There is every indication that the Pentagon is preparing another major escalation of the Afghanistan war, which under the Obama administration saw a “surge” that brought US troop levels to over 100,000, with no lasting impact in terms of consolidating the rule of the corrupt US puppet regime in Kabul.
Currently there are close to 9,000 US troops deployed in the country, together with several thousand other troops from NATO members, Australia and other countries. Gen. Nicholson, the US Afghanistan commander, indicated in Congressional testimony in February that he needed “a few thousand” more troops to combat the Taliban and other insurgents. He expressed confidence that he would get them.
President Donald Trump has turned over the management of US military operations—and indeed much of US foreign policy—to the cabal of recently retired and active duty generals who hold all the key security posts in the administration, together with the area commanders.
The Pentagon issued a statement Thursday reporting that “The president has delegated authority to the secretary of defense to determine force management levels (FML) for Iraq and Syria.”
The US military has already substantially increased the number of troops deployed in Iraq beyond the official limit of 5,000, using so-called “temporary” deployments to bring the real number to over 7,000. And, while troop levels in Syria had been capped at 500 special operations soldiers, the Pentagon sent several hundred Marines into northeastern Syria to set up an artillery firebase and dispatched a unit of Army Rangers equipped with Stryker combat vehicles to the area of Manbij in a bid to quell combat between the Turkish military and Kurdish militia fighters who serve as Washington’s main proxy ground troops in combat with ISIS in Syria. In addition, some 2,500 troops from the 82nd Airborne have been sent to Kuwait to serve as a reserve force that can be called into either country.
The Pentagon statement made no mention of Afghanistan, but it is highly probable that the Trump administration will grant the generals similar leeway in terms of escalating the longest war in US history.
From the outset, the WSWS exposed the lies of Washington that its illegal invasion of Afghanistan was an act of self-defense in response to the terrorist attacks of September 11.

Title: News Search:  World News 2 Us Army Soldiers Killed Fighting Isis In Afghanistan  | Daily Global News | RobinsPost News Network
Top News Video Stories
News Category ListBusiness
            NewsConsumer
            NewsEntertainment NewsHealth
            NewsPolitics
            NewsPress
            ReleasesScience
            NewsSports
            NewsTechnology NewsUS
            NewsTravel
            NewsWorld
            News

Title: Syndicated Article – Newstalk 750 – 103.7 KFQD
Newstalk 750 - 103.7 KFQD is a part of Alpha Media LLC.© 2024 Alpha Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.

Title: Syndicated Article – Freedom 970
Freedom 970 is a part of Alpha Media LLC.© 2024 Alpha Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.

Title: Two US service members killed in Afghanistan amid ISIS fight | MyCentralOregon.com - Horizon Broadcasting Group, LLC
Menu
iStock/Thinkstock(WASHINGTON) — Two U.S. military service members were killed Wednesday night in an anti-ISIS operation in Achin District of Nangarhar province in eastern Afghanistan, according to Pentagon spokesman Capt. Jeff Davis. A third American service member was wounded in action.
Their identities, service, and unit affiliations are being withheld pending next of kin notification.
“The fight against ISIS-K is important for the world, but sadly, it is not without sacrifice,” said Gen. John W. Nicholson, Commander, U.S. Forces-Afghanistan. “On behalf of all U.S. Forces and our coalition partners, I offer our deepest sympathies to the families, friends, and fellow service members of our fallen comrades.”
ISIS-K stands for ISIS-Khorasan, a branch of the organization operating in the Khorasan region of Afghanistan.
Achin is the same district where an American soldier was killed earlier this month and where the massive ordnance air blast (MOAB) bomb was dropped on April 14.
On Monday, during a press conference with U.S. Secretary of Defense James Mattis, Nicholson said that ISIS is attempting to establish a presence in Afghanistan, and the MOAB bomb was meant to send “a very clear message” to the group.
“I will say we were sending a very clear message to ISIS, not only to ISIS here in Afghanistan but also ISIS main,” Nicholson. “If they come here to Afghanistan, they will be destroyed. In keeping secretary’s intent, they will be annihilated.”
President Trump has ordered a review of the U.S. policy in Afghanistan.
Copyright © 2017, ABC Radio. All rights reserved.
ABC News (NEW YORK) — In an exclusive interview with ABC News’ Good Morning America, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he believes the war with Russia is “closer to an end” than many believe and called on
Smoke billows after an Israeli strike near the southern Lebanese village of Al-Mahmoudiye on September 24, 2024. (RABIH DAHER/AFP via Getty Images) (NEW YORK) — Israel and Hezbollah are exchanging hundreds of cross-border strikes in the wake
ABC News (NEW YORK) — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is accusing Russia of using Chinese satellites to photograph nuclear power stations in Ukraine as part of preparations to potentially strike them. Zelenskyy made the accusation in an
ABC News (NEW YORK) — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he believes the war with Russia is “closer to an end” than many believe and called on allies to strengthen Ukraine’s army. “The plan of victory is
Smoke billows from the site of an Israeli airstrike on the outskirts of the southern village of Habbouch on September 23, 2024. (Photo by RABIH DAHER/AFP via Getty Images) (LONDON) — The Israeli military expanded its Lebanon

Title: Syndicated Article – True Oldies Channel
True Oldies Channel is a part of Alpha Media LLC.© 2024 Alpha Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.

Title: Syndicated Article – KNZR 97.7 FM
KNZR 97.7 FM is a part of Alpha Media LLC.© 2024 Alpha Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.

Title: Syndicated Article – WSGW 790 AM & 100.5 FM
WSGW 790 AM & 100.5 FM is a part of Alpha Media LLC.© 2024 Alpha Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.

Title: 
Afghan military kills 27 militants: gov't - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KABUL, April 1 (Xinhua) -- The Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) killed 27 militants across the country within the day, the country's Defense Ministry said Saturday.
"In the past 24 hours, the ANSF conducted several anti-terrorism operations to clear some of the areas from terrorists and enemies of peace and stability of Afghanistan, killing 27 armed militants and detaining six others," the ministry said in a statement providing daily operational updates.
Seventeen militants were also wounded during the raids which were conducted in 11 of the country's 34 provinces, according to the statement.
The security forces also discovered and confiscated rounds of light and heavy ammunition besides destroying a car bomb, three motorcycles and two militants' hideouts, the statement said.
However, the statement did not mention if there were any casualties on the side of the security forces.
KABUL, April 1 (Xinhua) -- The Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) killed 27 militants across the country within the day, the country's Defense Ministry said Saturday.
"In the past 24 hours, the ANSF conducted several anti-terrorism operations to clear some of the areas from terrorists and enemies of peace and stability of Afghanistan, killing 27 armed militants and detaining six others," the ministry said in a statement providing daily operational updates.
Seventeen militants were also wounded during the raids which were conducted in 11 of the country's 34 provinces, according to the statement.
The security forces also discovered and confiscated rounds of light and heavy ammunition besides destroying a car bomb, three motorcycles and two militants' hideouts, the statement said.
However, the statement did not mention if there were any casualties on the side of the security forces.
Copyright © 2000 - 2015 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.

Title: India must deploy troops
Follow Us :
#Assembly Polls 2024

Title: Afghanistan and India have had a historically friendly relationship - Newspaper - DAWN.COM
THE situation in Afghanistan can be described as a stalemate at both the strategic and tactical levels. The security environment is precarious, socio-economic development is stagnating, and the reconciliation process has reached an impasse. The Nato-Isaf strategy to clear-hold-build-transfer-exit has succeeded only partially as the Taliban and the Al Qaeda have not been eliminated and terrorists owing allegiance to the militant Islamic State (IS) are increasing in number.
The fledgling Afghan National Army (ANA) and the Afghan National Police (ANP) are not yet capable of managing security after the premature withdrawal of the US-led intervention force.
The Afghanistan National Security Forces (ANSF, ANA plus ANP) numbers are small (352,000). The ANA lacks heavy weapons, artillery, air support and helicopters for logistics support. The standards of the junior leadership are low and the troops are inadequately trained and equipped. They do not have the level of motivation necessary to undertake complex counter-insurgency operations on a sustained basis.
Cases of fratricide and desertions with weapons are commonplace.
While the ANSF and the remnants of the Nato-Isaf forces control most of the large towns and the airports, the Taliban and the Al Qaeda between them control large swathes of the countryside. Governance is virtually non-existent outside Kabul. The approximately 13,000 western troops now in Afghanistan are on a train-advise-assist mission. Unless Afghanistan’s neighbours, the Central Asian Republics (CARs), Pakistan, China, India, Iran and Russia join hands with the international community to supplement the ANSF’s efforts to eliminate the insurgents, the security environment is likely to deteriorate further and may degenerate into a civil war.
Afghanistan and India have had a historically friendly relationship. Its location at the strategic crossroads between South Asia and Central Asia and South Asia and West Asia makes it an important geopolitical partner. It boasts vast mineral deposits.
When the Chabahar port in Iran becomes operational, India will gain access to the Central Asian republics through Afghanistan. Hence peace and stability in Afghanistan are vital national interests for India.
India supports the installation of a broad-based and stable representative government in consonance with Afghan customs and traditions. The imposition of the Western model of democracy will not be appropriate. India would prefer a government that adopts a stance of neutrality between India and Pakistan, but should be willing to work closely with any government that is truly representative of the Afghan people.
India’s efforts to provide greater assistance are being hampered by the lack of geographical contiguity. It has only limited access to Afghanistan as Pakistan has not given it transit rights. India’s attempts to allay Pakistan’s fears about her intentions have not been successful as Pakistan has steadfastly refused to discuss this issue.
Afghanistan’s problems cannot be resolved unless the trans-Durand Line challenges that it faces from Pakistan and the Haqqani network are addressed simultaneously.
The India-Afghanistan strategic partnership agreement was signed in Oct 2011. It calls for close political cooperation with a mechanism for regular consultations and joint initiatives on regional and international issues. It stipulates a strategic dialogue to provide a framework for cooperation in the field of national security. Security cooperation is intended to enhance mutual efforts against international terrorism, organised crime, illegal trafficking in narcotics and money laundering.
The agreement specifies that India will assist in the training, equipping and capacity-building programmes of the ANSF.
It commits the two sides to “strengthening trade, economic, scientific and technological cooperation, as well as cooperation between other bodies of business and industry representatives.”
India has committed itself to continue to provide assistance for Afghanistan’s reconstruction and development programmes and capacity-building.
India’s policy objectives in Afghanistan are in consonance with the strategic partnership agreement. Besides a stable and preferably neutral government, these objectives include the following ~ to ensure that Afghanistan does not again become a base and safe haven for terrorists and radical extremists; counter Pakistan’s quest for strategic depth, acquire access to Afghanistan and through it to the CARs; establish broad-based engagement with all political groups; support Afghan-led reconciliation efforts, as visualised by the Afghan High Peace Council; assist Afghanistan to train its administrative and judicial staff to improve governance and the delivery of justice; and, further enhance people-to-people contacts.
India’s national security objectives comprise supporting the capacity-building efforts of ANSF by ensuring the implementation of the strategic partnership agreement, including the supply of war-like stores; ensuring the safety and protection of Indian assets and infrastructure in Afghanistan; and, cooperating to share intelligence. India’s economic policy objectives are to increase trade with Afghanistan and through it with the Central Asian Republics; enhance Indian business investment in Afghanistan; assist Afghanistan to develop its natural resources; further increase India’s reconstruction and capacity-building programme; enhance this country’s energy security; for example, through the commissioning of the TAPI pipeline; assist Afghanistan to replace narcotics-based agriculture with regular agriculture; and, work towards the implementation of SAFTA.
Finally, unless the security environment improves substantially, governance and development will continue to be relegated. The P-5 needs to be persuaded to supplement the ANSF with a United Nations or a regional peacekeeping force to eliminate the Taliban.
There is no support in Afghanistan for another peacekeeping force. Nor is there support in India for sending troops to Afghanistan. However, it is generally realised that the fight against the Taliban and the Al Qaeda must be won as it has long-term security implications for the country.
For India, peace and stability in Afghanistan are vital national interests. By definition, vital interests must be defended by force, if necessary.
Along with other neighbours ~ if invited ~ New Delhi should be willing to deploy up to one division (15,000 troops) to join such a force.
The Statesman/India
Published in Dawn, April 26th, 2017
Compunode.com Pvt. Ltd. (www.compunode.com).Designed forDawn.
Copyright © 2024, Dawn
NewsKit Publishing Platform

Title:  Afghan military kills 27 militants: gov't - China.org.cn
视频播放位置
The Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) killed 27 militants across the country within the day, the country's Defense Ministry said Saturday.
"In the past 24 hours, the ANSF conducted several anti-terrorism operations to clear some of the areas from terrorists and enemies of peace and stability of Afghanistan, killing 27 armed militants and detaining six others," the ministry said in a statement providing daily operational updates.
Seventeen militants were also wounded during the raids which were conducted in 11 of the country's 34 provinces, according to the statement.
The security forces also discovered and confiscated rounds of light and heavy ammunition besides destroying a car bomb, three motorcycles and two militants' hideouts, the statement said.
However, the statement did not mention if there were any casualties on the side of the security forces. Endit

Title:  Afghan military kills 27 militants: gov't - China.org.cn
视频播放位置
The Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) killed 27 militants across the country within the day, the country's Defense Ministry said Saturday.
"In the past 24 hours, the ANSF conducted several anti-terrorism operations to clear some of the areas from terrorists and enemies of peace and stability of Afghanistan, killing 27 armed militants and detaining six others," the ministry said in a statement providing daily operational updates.
Seventeen militants were also wounded during the raids which were conducted in 11 of the country's 34 provinces, according to the statement.
The security forces also discovered and confiscated rounds of light and heavy ammunition besides destroying a car bomb, three motorcycles and two militants' hideouts, the statement said.
However, the statement did not mention if there were any casualties on the side of the security forces.

Title: India & Afghan turmoil - The Statesman

The situation in Afghanistan can be described as a stalemate at both the strategic and tactical levels. The security environment…
Gurmeet Kanwal |April 24, 2017 8:55 pm
Representational image (Photo: Getty Images)
The situation in Afghanistan can be described as a stalemate at both the strategic and tactical levels.
The security environment is precarious, socio-economic development is stagnating, and the reconciliation process has reached an impasse.

The NATOISAF strategy to clear-hold-build-transfer-exit has succeeded only partially as the Taliban and the Al Qaida have not been eliminated and terrorists owing allegiance to ISIS are increasing in number.

Advertisement
The fledgling Afghan National Army (ANA) and the Afghan National Police (ANP) are not yet capable of managing security after the premature withdrawal of the US-led NATO-ISAF intervention force.
The Afghanistan National Security Forces (ANSF, ANA plus ANP) numbers are small (352,000).
The ANA lacks heavy weapons, artillery, air support and helicopters for logistics support. The standards of the junior leadership are low and the troops are inadequately trained and equipped.
They do not have the level of motivation necessary to undertake complex counterinsurgency operations on a sustained basis.
Cases of fratricide and desertions with weapons are commonplace.
While the ANSF and the remnants of the NATO-ISAF forces control most of the large towns and the airports, the Taliban and the Al Qaida between them control large swathes of the countryside.
Governance is virtually non-existent outside Kabul. The approximately 13,000 NATO-ISAF troops now in Afghanistan are on a train-advise-assist mission.
Unless Afghanistan’s regional neighbours, the Central Asian Republics (CARs), China, India, Iran, Pakistan and Russia join hands with the international community to supplement the ANSF’s efforts to eliminate the insurgents, the security environment is likely to deteriorate further and may degenerate into a civil war.
Afghanistan and India have had a historically friendly relationship. Its location at the strategic cross-roads between South Asia and Central Asia and South Asia and West Asia makes it an important geo-political partner.
It boasts vast mineral deposits. When the Chabahar port in Iran becomes operational, India will gain access to the Central Asian Republics through Afghanistan.
Hence, peace and stability in Afghanistan are vital national interests for India. India supports the installation of a broad-based and stable representative government in consonance with Afghan customs and traditions.
The imposition of the Western model of democracy will not be appropriate. India would prefer a government that adopts a stance of neutrality between India and Pakistan, but should be willing to work closely with any government that is truly representative of the Afghan people.
India’s efforts to provide greater assistance are being hampered by the lack of geographical contiguity. It has only limited access to Afghanistan as Pakistan has not given India transit rights.
India’s attempts to allay Pakistan’s fears about her intentions have not been successful as Pakistan has steadfastly refused to discuss this issue.
Afghanistan’s problems cannot be resolved unless the transDurand Line challenges that it faces from Pakistan and the Haqqani network are addressed simultaneously.
The India-Afghanistan Strategic Partnership agreement was signed in October 2011. It calls for close political cooperation with a mechanism for regular consultations and joint initiatives on regional and international issues.
It stipulates a strategic dialogue to provide a framework for cooperation in the field of national security. Security cooperation is intended to enhance mutual efforts against international terrorism, organised crime, illegal trafficking in narcotics and money laundering.
The agreement specifies that India will assist in the training, equipping and capacitybuilding programmes of the ANSF.
It commits the two sides to “strengthening trade, economic, scientific and technological cooperation, as well as cooperation between other bodies of business and industry representatives.”
India has committed itself to continue to provide assistance for Afghanistan’s reconstruction and development programmes and capacity-building. India’s policy objectives in Afghanistan are in consonance with the strategic partnership agreement.
Besides a stable and preferably neutral government, these objectives include the following ~ to ensure that Afghanistan does not again become a base and safe haven for terrorists and radical extremists; counter Pakistan’s quest for strategic depth, acquire access to Afghanistan and through it to the CARs; establish broad-based engagement with all political groups; support Afghan-led reconciliation efforts, as visualised by the Afghan High Peace Council; assist Afghanistan to train its administrative and judicial staff to improve governance and the delivery of justice; and, further enhance people-to-people contacts.
India’s national security objectives comprise supporting the capacity-building efforts of ANSF by ensuring the implementation of the Strategic Partnership Agreement, including the supply of war-like stores; ensuring the safety and protection of Indian assets and infrastructure in Afghanistan; and, cooperating to share intelligence.
India’s economic policy objectives are to increase trade with Afghanistan and through it with the Central Asian Republics; enhance Indian business investment in Afghanistan; assist Afghanistan to develop its natural resources; further increase India’s reconstruction and capacity-building programme; enhance this country’s energy security; for example, through the commissioning of the TAPI pipeline; assist Afghanistan to replace narcoticsbased agriculture with regular agriculture; and, work towards the implementation of SAFTA.
Finally, unless the security environment improves substantially, governance and development will continue to be relegated.
The P-5 needs to be persuaded to supplement the ANSF with a United Nations or a regional peacekeeping force to eliminate the Taliban.
There is no support in Afghanistan for another peacekeeping force. Nor is there support in India for sending troops to Afghanistan.
However, it is generally realised that the fight against the Taliban and the Al Qaida must be won as it has long-term security implications for the country.
For India, peace and stability in Afghanistan are vital national interests. By definition, vital interests must be defended by force if necessary. Along with other neighbours ~ if invited ~ New Delhi should be willing to deploy up to one division (15,000 troops) to join such a force.
The writer is Distinguished Fellow, Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA), New Delhi

Advertisement
CSA’s statement came after it was criticised for engaging in a brief white ball series against Afghanistan from activist organisation Lawyers for Human Rights, which said that by doing so, South Africa were tacitly endorsing a repressive regime.
The Taliban’s announcement banning women’s voices and bare faces in public marks another troubling chapter in the erosion of women’s rights in Afghanistan.
The recent UN-led meeting in Doha marked a significant moment for international diplomacy as the Taliban participated for the first time. This event has sparked varied reactions globally
Advertisement

PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENT, ALWAYS IN SESSION
AddressThe Statesman Net Private LimitedStatesman House, First Floor 148 Barakhamba RoadNew Delhi – 110001(+91) (011) 41605781, 41605958
© 2023, thestatesman.com | All rights reserved

Title: 
47 militants killed in fresh operations in Afghanistan: gov't - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KABUL, April 20 (Xinhua) -- Altogether 47 militants have been killed in fresh military operations across Afghanistan, said the country's Defense Ministry on Thursday.
"Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) carried out operations to clean some areas from terrorists and enemies of peace and stability of Afghanistan. As a result 47 armed militants were killed, 11 wounded and one was arrested by the ANSF over the last 24 hours," the ministry said in a statement providing daily operational updates.
The raids were conducted in 13 of the country's 34 provinces and security forces also recovered and defused 31 roadside bombs and landmine over the period, according to the statement.
Taliban-led violence continues in Afghanistan. Security forces have pressed on to clear the militants in restive provinces.
The Taliban responds by bombing and armed attacks.
United Nations Chinese Language Day marked in Geneva, Switzerland
Landslide hits Manizales, Colombia
Trump welcomes visiting Super Bowl Champion New England Patriots in White House
Juventus advances to semifinal at UEFA Champions League
In pics: scenery of Baiyangdian in Xiongan New Area
In pics: tea garden in central China's Henan
Peach blossoms on terrace fields in Guyuan, NW China's Ningxia
Stewardesses for high-speed train take part in training program in Harbin

Title: Kabul seeks Delhi's help in repairing grounded military planes - The Statesman

Last Friday’s terror attack at an Army base at Mazar-i-Sharif in Afghanistan in which nearly 140 people were killed has…
Ashok Tuteja | New Delhi |April 25, 2017 12:20 pm
(PHOTO: Getty Images)
Last Friday’s terror attack at an Army base at Mazar-i-Sharif in Afghanistan in which nearly 140 people were killed has triggered a fresh debate in Indian circles on whether New Delhi should assist Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) in boosting their capabilities to defend the war-ravaged nation.
Source here confirmed that Afghanistan has been nudging India to play a role in strengthening the hands of Afghan security forces as they struggle to fight Taliban insurgents who have launched a series of audacious attacks in recent months, bringing to naught all efforts by the international community to stabilise the security situation in the country.

"The fast deteriorating situation in Afghanistan is a threat to the whole region…it has accentuated the need for strengthening the hands of security agencies in Afghanistan,’’ he added.

Advertisement
As the first step, Kabul is learnt to have suggested to India to repair the grounded Afghan Air Force planes. At the insistence of Kabul, India had sent to Afghanistan last year a technical team to review the needs of the Afghan forces. The team had inspected the grounded planes, including 11 Mi-35 gunships and seven transport planes. It was of the view that the repair would cost around 50 million dollars.
The source said "the well-wishers of Afghanistan" had been assessing the scale of the challenge to the ANSF, particularly in the segment of close air support. Afghanistan has a large number of attack helicopters and transport aircraft grounded for want of spares.
The United States also, meanwhile, is said to be working on plans to replace the transport helicopters being used by the Afghan Air Force with the modern UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters.
India has been one of the largest contributors to Afghanistan since 2001. It has provided two billion dollars in economic aid and pledged another 1 billion dollars over the next few years. Unfazed by terror attacks orchestrated by Pakistan against Indian nationals working there, India has also undertaken major reconstruction projects, like the Parliament building and the Salma Dam, in the war-torn country, earning the love and respect of the Afghan citizens.
In 2011, India signed a historic Strategic Partnership Agreement (SPA) with the then Hamid Karzai Government in Afghanistan, making New Delhi the first strategic partner of Kabul in the post-Taliban era. Although under the terms of the agreement, India had agreed to assist ANSF in training and capacity building, it has been reluctant to do so practically for fear of backlash from Pakistan.
at an event here on Tuesday, Afghan Ambassador to India Shaida Abdali indirectly blamed Pakistan for using terrorism as a tool against India and Afghanistan. ‘’State sponsorship of terrorism has become an old fact. We are hoping for this ground reality to change,’’ he added. He also stressed that the time had come to revive the India-Afghanistan-US trilateral to address pressing issues facing the region.

Advertisement
The four countries, which are all claimants for permanent seats in the UNSC, stressed a comprehensive reform of the Security Council as an essential part of any endeavour to make the UN better reflect contemporary geopolitical realities.
Addressing the UN’s Summit of the Future, Modi said: "By lifting 250 million people out of poverty in India, we have demonstrated that sustainable development can be successful."
Affirming support for the reformation of United Nations Security Council to better represent the developing world, US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken said that the United States has long endorsed permanent seats in the council for India, Japan and Germany.
Advertisement

PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENT, ALWAYS IN SESSION
AddressThe Statesman Net Private LimitedStatesman House, First Floor 148 Barakhamba RoadNew Delhi – 110001(+91) (011) 41605781, 41605958
© 2023, thestatesman.com | All rights reserved

Title: Pakistan take sincere action before releasing $350 million aid, an Indian urge to US - New Delhi Times - India's Only International Newspaper - Empowering Global Vision, Empathizing with India

Indian government has urged USA to prevent the release of final tranche of Coalition Support Fund (CSF) to Pakistan of worth $350 million until Islamabad takes reliable action against terrorism and groups. The two NSAs held talk on counter- terror partnership, Pak-sponsored terror and Af-Pak condition.
India suggested to NSA that US should release funds to Pakistan only when Pakistan’s Army take steps against the terrorist groups.
The administration of Trump is sceptical on releasing the remaining fund of $350 million of the $900 million CSF as there is no enough steps were taken by Pakistan against the Haqqani terror network. As instructed by the Congress, the Pentagon has started the process of reviewing the steps taken by Pakistan against the Haqqani network that US considers poses a serious danger to its militaries in Afghanistan.
The Indian side has appraised the US NSA that Islamabad has not only acted against the Haqqani network but also not acted against LeT and various other terrorist groups. US Defence Secretary Jim Mattis has to issue a certificate to the Congress by June to beauthorized to get $350 million from the Pentagon.  The US financial year ends in September. The Haqqani network has carried out a number of kidnapping and attacks against US interest in Afghanistan. It is responsible for deadly attacks against Indian interest.
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.AcceptRead More
You must belogged into post a comment.

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: Pakistan not done enough to get Haqqani network certification | World News - The Indian Express
Pakistan may not get the remaining USD 350 million of the USD 900 million coalition support fund from the US as it has not done enough against the dangerous Haqqani terror network to get the required certification from the Defence Secretary, officials said.
As mandated by the Congress, the Pentagon has started the process of reviewing the steps being taken by Pakistan against the Haqqani network, which the US believes poses a grave threat to its forces in Afghanistan.
Given the initial review and the feedback received from Pakistan, sources told PTI that Pakistan is unlikely to get the USD 350 of the USD 900 million of the Coalition Support Fund (CSF) this fiscal as sanctioned by the Congress.
US Defence Secretary Jim Mattis needs to issue a certificate to the Congress in this regard by June-end to become eligible to get USD 350 million from the Pentagon.
The Pentagon said no decision in this regard has been made yet. “The Secretary of Defence has not yet made a decision regarding the Haqqani certification requirement associated with USD 350 million of the FY-16 CSF appropriation for Pakistan,” Adam Stump, a Defence Department spokesman, told PTI.
The Haqqani network has carried out a number of kidnappings and attacks against US interests in Afghanistan. The group is also blamed for several deadly attacks against Indian interests in Afghanistan, including the 2008 bombing of the Indian mission in Kabul that killed 58 people.
The Deputy Secretary of Defence signed the authorisation to disburse USD 550 million in Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Coalition Support Funds (CSF) to Pakistan for logistical, military, and other support provided to the US operations in Afghanistan for the period of January-June 2015.
“The Department recognises the significant sacrifices the Pakistan military has made in the fight against terrorism and appreciates Pakistan’s continued support for transit of materiel to coalition forces in Afghanistan,” he said.
The disbursement which was wired to Pakistan last month uses CSF funds that are not restricted by the Secretary of Defence certification of Pakistan’s actions on the Haqqani Network.
As per the fiscal 2016, National Defence Authorisation Act (NDAA), Pakistan is authorised to receive up to USD 900 million in FY-16 CSF.
“Disbursement of the remaining USD 350 million will require the Secretary of Defence to certify that Pakistan has taken sufficient action against the Haqqani Network. The Secretary has not yet made a decision on certification,” Stump said in response to a question.
According to a defence official well aware of certification process, the Pentagon needs “to make sure that Pakistan is providing us evidence” with regard to the actions it is taking against the Haqqani network.
“We ask for evidence that they have gone after those groups,” the official told PTI, who requested anonymity.
Once the information is received from Pakistan, the Pentagon reviews and verifies those claims through its own network.
A initial review is conducted by a team of defence officials who then submit its recommendations to the Defence Secretary.
It is a part of an ongoing discussion, the official said.
However, Stump said that Pakistani people have made significant sacrifices over the last three years in order to counter terrorism.
“We continue to be encouraged by Pakistan’s operations in North Waziristan and elsewhere in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA),” he said, adding Pakistan’s efforts have reduced the ability of some militant groups to use North Waziristan and the FATA as a safe haven for terrorism.
“It is in the interest of Pakistan to eliminate all safe havens and reduce the operational capacity of all militant organisations, particularly Al Qaeda, Tehrik-e Taliban Pakistan (TTP), the Afghan Taliban, including the Haqqani Network, Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT) and other militant groups that pose a threat to US and Pakistani interests and regional stability,” Stump told PTI.
For the first time in 2016, then Secretary of Defence Ashton Carter had declined to certify that Pakistan met the Haqqani certification requirement, resulting in the loss of USD 300 million of fiscal year 2015 CSF.
This amount was reprogrammed by the Pentagon for Department of Defence’s Overseas Contingency Operations Funding, a second defence department official said.
“The USD 300 million of Coalition Support Funds you asked about were reprogrammed, with Congressional approval, through Reprogramming Actions – Prior Approval, FY 16-22 and FY 16-27, to help meet Department of Defence needs for Overseas Contingency Operations funding,” the official said.
Notably, the Coalition Support Fund (CSF) authority is not security assistance, but reimbursements to key cooperating nations for logistical, military, and other support provided to US combat operations.
“Pakistan is the largest recipient of CSF reimbursements, receiving roughly USD 14 billion since 2002,” he said, adding that CSF is just one component of America’s broad and enduring partnership with Pakistan.
Katrina Kaif is passionate about makeup and sees it as a form of self-expression. She learned techniques from top makeup artists and uses them to create her own glamorous persona. As the founder of Kay Beauty, she aims to fill the gaps in the market with high-performance and high-quality products.



Title: Pakistan may not get Rs 2200 crore support from US for Haqqani network inaction – India TV
Pakistan’s inaction against terror group Haqqani network may compel the US to hold the release of remaining USD 350 million (over Rs 2200 crore) of the USD 900 million (over Rs 5760 crore) support fund.
According to top US Defence officials, the Islamic nation may not get the remaining part of the aide as it has not done enough against the dangerous Haqqani terror network to get the required certification from the Defence Secretary.
As mandated by the Congress, the Pentagon has started the process of reviewing the steps being taken by Pakistan against the Haqqani network, which the US believes poses a grave threat to its forces in Afghanistan.
Given the initial review and the feedback received from Pakistan, sources told PTI that Pakistan is unlikely to get the USD 350 of the USD 900 million of the Coalition Support Fund (CSF) this fiscal as sanctioned by the Congress.
US Defence Secretary Jim Mattis needs to issue a certificate to the Congress in this regard by June-end to become eligible to get USD 350 million from the Pentagon.
The Pentagon said no decision in this regard has been made yet. “The Secretary of Defence has not yet made a decision regarding the Haqqani certification requirement associated with USD 350 million of the FY-16 CSF appropriation for Pakistan,” Adam Stump, a Defence Department spokesman, told PTI.
The Haqqani network has carried out a number of kidnappings and attacks against US interests in Afghanistan. The group is also blamed for several deadly attacks against Indian interests in Afghanistan, including the 2008 bombing of the Indian mission in Kabul that killed 58 people.
The Deputy Secretary of Defence signed the authorisation to disburse USD 550 million in Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Coalition Support Funds (CSF) to Pakistan for logistical, military, and other support provided to the US operations in Afghanistan for the period of January-June 2015.
“The Department recognises the significant sacrifices the Pakistan military has made in the fight against terrorism and appreciates Pakistan’s continued support for transit of materiel to coalition forces in Afghanistan,” he said.
The disbursement which was wired to Pakistan last month uses CSF funds that are not restricted by the Secretary of Defence certification of Pakistan’s actions on the Haqqani Network.
As per the fiscal 2016, National Defence Authorisation Act (NDAA), Pakistan is authorised to receive up to USD 900 million in FY-16 CSF.
“Disbursement of the remaining USD 350 million will require the Secretary of Defence to certify that Pakistan has taken sufficient action against the Haqqani Network. The Secretary has not yet made a decision on certification,” Stump said in response to a question.
According to a defence official well aware of certification process, the Pentagon needs “to make sure that Pakistan is providing us evidence” with regard to the actions it is taking against the Haqqani network.
“We ask for evidence that they have gone after those groups,” the official told PTI, who requested anonymity.
Once the information is received from Pakistan, the Pentagon reviews and verifies those claims through its own network.
A initial review is conducted by a team of defence officials who then submit its recommendations to the Defence Secretary.
It is a part of an ongoing discussion, the official said.
However, Stump said that Pakistani people have made significant sacrifices over the last three years in order to counter terrorism.
“We continue to be encouraged by Pakistan’s operations in North Waziristan and elsewhere in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA),” he said, adding Pakistan’s efforts have reduced the ability of some militant groups to use North Waziristan and the FATA as a safe haven for terrorism.
“It is in the interest of Pakistan to eliminate all safe havens and reduce the operational capacity of all militant organisations, particularly Al Qaeda, Tehrik-e Taliban Pakistan (TTP), the Afghan Taliban, including the Haqqani Network, Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT) and other militant groups that pose a threat to US and Pakistani interests and regional stability,” Stump told PTI.
For the first time in 2016, then Secretary of Defence Ashton Carter had declined to certify that Pakistan met the Haqqani certification requirement, resulting in the loss of USD 300 million of fiscal year 2015 CSF.
This amount was reprogrammed by the Pentagon for Department of Defence’s Overseas Contingency Operations Funding, a second defence department official said.
“The USD 300 million of Coalition Support Funds you asked about were reprogrammed, with Congressional approval, through Reprogramming Actions – Prior Approval, FY 16-22 and FY 16-27, to help meet Department of Defence needs for Overseas Contingency Operations funding,” the official said.
Notably, the Coalition Support Fund (CSF) authority is not security assistance, but reimbursements to key cooperating nations for logistical, military, and other support provided to US combat operations.
“Pakistan is the largest recipient of CSF reimbursements, receiving roughly USD 14 billion since 2002,” he said, adding that CSF is just one component of America’s broad and enduring partnership with Pakistan.
With PTI Inputs
Top News
Tirupati laddus row: Tobacco found in prasadam, claims devotee; video goes viral
Sohum Shah’s Tumbbad surpasses Thalapathy Vijay's Ghilli, becomes highest-grossing Indian re-release
Ishan Kishan included, Dhruv Jurel, Yash Dayal picked in Rest of India's squad for Irani Cup
Related World News
Bangladesh govt chief Yunus evades questions from Indian media in New York | Video goes viral
Israel's deadliest airstrikes on Lebanon kill 558 including 50 children, 94 women: Health Ministry
Harini Amarasuriya named as the new Prime Minister of Sri Lanka | Who is she?
Trump accuses US Justice Department, FBI of 'mishandling, downplaying' second assassination bid case
China 'firmly supports' Lebanon in safeguarding security as Israel launches airstrikes on Hezbollah
Latest News
Schools to open in Assam from tomorrow as weather condition improves, read official order
Delhi man arrested for installing spy cam to record woman tenant in bathroom, bedroom
Tirupati laddus row: Tobacco found in prasadam, claims devotee; video goes viral
Ishan Kishan included, Dhruv Jurel, Yash Dayal picked in Rest of India's squad for Irani Cup
© 2009-2024 Independent News Service.  All rights reserved.
As tensions between Israel & Hezbollah rise, what will be socio-economic impact of a full-blown war?
Yoga, 24 September 2024: 4 'white' enemies in the path of long life...How to get a healthy life?
PM Modi at UN 'Summit of the Future': Poverty to Global South, Top 5 takeaways from PM Modi's speech
Israel-Hezbollah Conflict: IDF bombards over 300 Hezbollah targets in Lebanon, several dead
Horoscope Today, 24 September, 2024: Know Your Zodiac-Based Predictions
Tirupati laddu row: Centre issues show cause notice to ghee supplier
Punjab govt conducts major administrative reshuffle, transfers 124 IAS, PCS officers
OPINION | Encounters: Are They Caste Based?
Breaking News, September 24 | LIVE updates
Aaj Ki Baat: Full episode, September 23, 2024
Bangladesh govt chief Yunus evades questions from Indian media in New York | Video goes viral
Israel's deadliest airstrikes on Lebanon kill 558 including 50 children, 94 women: Health Ministry
Harini Amarasuriya named as the new Prime Minister of Sri Lanka | Who is she?
Trump accuses US Justice Department, FBI of 'mishandling, downplaying' second assassination bid case
China 'firmly supports' Lebanon in safeguarding security as Israel launches airstrikes on Hezbollah
Sohum Shah’s Tumbbad surpasses Thalapathy Vijay's Ghilli, becomes highest-grossing Indian re-release
Did you know Omar Abdullah had THIS objection to Ranbir-Deepika starrer 'Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani'?
Vashu Bhagnani, Jackky Bhagnani accuse Ali Abbas Zafar for of siphoning funds
Maharaj actor Shalini Pandey joins Dhanush's 'Idli Kadai', begins shooting in Hyderabad
Malayalam actor Mukesh, arrested in sexual assault case, released on anticipatory bail
Ishan Kishan included, Dhruv Jurel, Yash Dayal picked in Rest of India's squad for Irani Cup
Ajinkya Rahane to lead, Shreyas Iyer, Shardul Thakur in as Mumbai announce squad for Irani Cup
On This Day in 2007: MS Dhoni-led team India won inaugural T20 World Cup edition beating Pakistan
First time in more than 20 years! Nicholas Pooran touches massive six-hitting milestone in 2024
Virat Kohli on cusp of breaking Sachin Tendulkar and Don Bradman's records vs Bangladesh in 2nd Test
How new Jammu and Kashmir assembly will be different from earlier ones in terms of power?
Israel-Hezbollah tensions peak: What will be socio-economic impact of full-blown war? | EXPLAINED
Jammu and Kashmir Assembly Elections: How many candidates in Phase 2 are facing criminal cases?
When was last 'One Nation, One Election' held in India and who broke the cycle? DETAILS
One Nation, One Election: Why is Centre planning to implement it, what are its benefits? | Explained
Fake registration drive: Tax authorities uncover over 10,000 bogus firms under GST across country
Stock markets early trade: Sensex crosses 85,000-mark for first time, Nifty hits record high
EPFO withdrawal: How to withdraw money from PF account without employer’s approval? Check process
Sensex, Nifty touch all-time closing high levels amid strong foreign fund inflows
Will UPI users discontinue service if transaction fee is imposed? Check what survey reveals