Title: US can secure release of Taliban prisoners, not Kabul government – International Shia News Agency
SHAFAQNA- Mehr News Agency:TheAfghangovernment does not have authority over the release of the Taliban prisoners and the United States should act in that regard, Taliban spokesman Zabihollah Mujahid said in an interview with Mehr News Agency.
While theTalibangroup had previously demanded the release of its prisoners held by Afghanistan government as a precondition for peace and ceasefire in Afghanistan, the group’s spokesman Zabihollah Mujahid toldMehr News Agency (MNA)that the Afghan government does not have authority over the release of the Taliban prisoners and the United States should act in that regard.
Mujahid touched upon the recent meeting between Taliban’s representative Mullah Brardar, who is also the co-founder of the armed group, and the commander of theNATOtroops in Afghanistan, saying that the release of the Taliban prisoners and the withdrawal of foreign troops were among the main issues discussed at the meeting.
The spokesman added Mullah Brardar had also called on the American side in the extraordinary meeting with the commander of the foreign troops in Afghanistan to lift the sanctions on the group, secure the release the Taliban prisoners held by Afghanistan government and resolve the issues through dialogue.
He added that in the meeting, the American side had called on the Taliban to help consolidate security and peace in Afghanistan and not to use the Afghanistan territory to threaten other countries.
Mujahid further said about the meeting between the head of the Taliban’s political office in Qatar Mullah Brardar with the commander of foreign troops in Afghanistan that the US special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad and two Qatari officials were also present in the meeting and that it took place somewhere in Doha other than the Taliban’s political office.
The Taliban spokesman also expressed satisfaction with the talks in Qatar, saying that no negative issues have been raised in the talks so far, but a final decision has not been made yet, and it is too early to be able to predict the outcome.
Read more from Shafaqna:
Govt, politicians in Afghanistan on the warpath over talks with Taliban
ASEFI: IRAN TO CONTINUE ITS SUCCESSFUL TALK WITH TALIBAN
TEHRAN-KABUL MEETINGS TO ESTABLISH PEACE PROCESS IN AFGHANISTAN
WITHDRAWAL OF US TROOPS FROM AFGHANISTAN AFFECTS PEACE PROCESS IN KABUL




Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.


Δ

Title:  US don't want impose settlement on Afghanistan
ForgotUsernameorPassword

Date
(MENAFN- Afghanistan Times) AT News ReportKABUL: US ambassador to Afghanistan John Bass said that his
country doesn't want impose settlement on Afghanistan, and rejected the
Taliban's propaganda campaign regarding Doha negotiations.In a press briefing here in Kabul, the US envoy talked over
ongoing peace talks in Qatar, and other related issues to Afghanistan, including
the forthcoming presidential elections.'We are carefully in talks with the Taliban, and don't
discuss those issues that only Afghans can discuss, debate and decide for
yourself,' the envoy said.'We have profound respects for the people of this country's
ability to make their own choses, we don't seek to create an imposes
settlement,' the ambassador added.US engaged in talks with the Taliban to establish peace and
stability and protection of the last 18 years achievements.He said that Taliban group are spreading unfair propaganda
and information regarding talks between US envoy for Afghanistan Reconciliation
Zalmay Khalilzad and Taliban negotiating member in Doha.He called on Taliban to refrain from killing innocent people
and sit in talks with the people of Afghanistan.'US never represent the people of Afghanistan in the talks
underway in Qatar,' Bass said, stressing the people of Afghanistan should
resolve their differences themselves.He said four topics — withdrawal of foreign forces,
counter-terrorism, ceasefire and intra-Afghan dialogue — had been discussed
with the Taliban and there was progress on the first two topics.MENAFN2703201901690000ID1098308297
KABUL: US ambassador to Afghanistan John Bass said that his
country doesn't want impose settlement on Afghanistan, and rejected the
Taliban's propaganda campaign regarding Doha negotiations.In a press briefing here in Kabul, the US envoy talked over
ongoing peace talks in Qatar, and other related issues to Afghanistan, including
the forthcoming presidential elections.'We are carefully in talks with the Taliban, and don't
discuss those issues that only Afghans can discuss, debate and decide for
yourself,' the envoy said.'We have profound respects for the people of this country's
ability to make their own choses, we don't seek to create an imposes
settlement,' the ambassador added.US engaged in talks with the Taliban to establish peace and
stability and protection of the last 18 years achievements.He said that Taliban group are spreading unfair propaganda
and information regarding talks between US envoy for Afghanistan Reconciliation
Zalmay Khalilzad and Taliban negotiating member in Doha.He called on Taliban to refrain from killing innocent people
and sit in talks with the people of Afghanistan.'US never represent the people of Afghanistan in the talks
underway in Qatar,' Bass said, stressing the people of Afghanistan should
resolve their differences themselves.He said four topics — withdrawal of foreign forces,
counter-terrorism, ceasefire and intra-Afghan dialogue — had been discussed
with the Taliban and there was progress on the first two topics.MENAFN2703201901690000ID1098308297
KABUL: US ambassador to Afghanistan John Bass said that his
country doesn't want impose settlement on Afghanistan, and rejected the
Taliban's propaganda campaign regarding Doha negotiations.
In a press briefing here in Kabul, the US envoy talked over
ongoing peace talks in Qatar, and other related issues to Afghanistan, including
the forthcoming presidential elections.
'We are carefully in talks with the Taliban, and don't
discuss those issues that only Afghans can discuss, debate and decide for
yourself,' the envoy said.
'We have profound respects for the people of this country's
ability to make their own choses, we don't seek to create an imposes
settlement,' the ambassador added.
US engaged in talks with the Taliban to establish peace and
stability and protection of the last 18 years achievements.
He said that Taliban group are spreading unfair propaganda
and information regarding talks between US envoy for Afghanistan Reconciliation
Zalmay Khalilzad and Taliban negotiating member in Doha.
He called on Taliban to refrain from killing innocent people
and sit in talks with the people of Afghanistan.
'US never represent the people of Afghanistan in the talks
underway in Qatar,' Bass said, stressing the people of Afghanistan should
resolve their differences themselves.
He said four topics — withdrawal of foreign forces,
counter-terrorism, ceasefire and intra-Afghan dialogue — had been discussed
with the Taliban and there was progress on the first two topics.
MENAFN2703201901690000ID1098308297
MENAFN2703201901690000ID1098308297
Legal Disclaimer:MENAFNprovides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.

Tags
Comments
Category
Date
Daily(English)Daily(Arabic)All()

World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data.
Contact UsClick here
Copyright © 2000MENAFN.All rights reserved.
Design & Devleopment byMENAFN

Title: The Afghan Game: India must support the Afghan government and coordinate with countries like Iran
Interested in blogging for timesofindia.com? We will be happy to have you on board as a blogger, if you have the knack for writing. Just drop in a mail attoiblogs@timesinternet.inwith a brief bio and we will get in touch with you.
I am a Delhi-based journalist working for the Edit Page of The Times of India.
Afghanistan has recalled its ambassador from Pakistan over reported remarks by Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan suggesting that Kabul should set up an interim government. Imran apparently told Pakistani journalists that the current Afghan government was a hurdle to the ongoing peace process between the US and the Taliban as the latter refuses to talk to the regime in Kabul. Although, Pakistan has now said that Imran’s statement was taken out of context, it was certainly more than a slip of the tongue on the Pakistani premier’s part.
It’s clear that Pakistan sees the ongoing talks between the US and the Taliban as an opportunity to reassert its influence in Afghanistan. For, Pakistan’s military-ISI deep state still retains influence over the Taliban leadership. Recall that Sirajuddin Haqqani of the Haqqani network is the current deputy head of the Taliban. Therefore, if the US pulls out of Afghanistan and the Taliban gains a foothold in a future Afghan government, then Pakistan will be back in the driver’s seat in Afghanistan. After all, Pakistan’s deep state continues to see Afghanistan as its strategic depth, especially vis-à-vis India. And Imran’s comment regarding an interim set-up in Kabul exemplifies Pakistan’s desire to move things along in its favour.
Given this scenario, India’s approach to Afghanistan needs to be based on two principles. First, it should support the Afghan government as the lead in peace talks with the Taliban. In other words, the Afghan government should not be bypassed in arriving at any final peace deal. The Taliban sees the Afghan government as illegitimate and is trying to do a deal just with the US. The group is banking on the impatience of the Donald Trump administration to quickly make a deal and get out of Afghanistan. But this approach should be categorically rejected by all stakeholders in Afghanistan. The Taliban cannot be allowed to wholly have their way in this process. There can be no going back to pre-2001 years. Plus, Pakistan too is pushing for such an outcome. But a return to the old Pakistan-Taliban stratagem would be detrimental to regional security and Afghanistan’s development.
Second, India must support a multi-stakeholder approach to the Afghan peace process. This means coordinating with all regional stakeholders in Afghanistan, particularly Iran. The latter has expressed its willingness to use its influence in Afghanistan for India’s benefit. And I don’t see why New Delhi shouldn’t take up Tehran’s offer. Both countries have interests in Afghanistan and both countries are plagued by terrorism emanating out of Pakistan.
In fact, after the US leaves Afghanistan, only a genuine multi-stakeholder approach can stabilise Afghanistan and prevent the Pakistan-Taliban duopoly from calling all the shots in the future Afghan set-up. Thus, the Great Game for Afghanistan has already begun. India must stay sharp.



Views expressed above are the author's own.
What Rahul isn’t saying
Delhi CM’s statement highlights loyalty dilemma in Indian parties
Rise above biases to a higher way of thinking
Bail & more
Onam has now become a universal festival
A note of enlightenment to enrich your thoughts
Adulteration central
There is no value in remembering god in old age
Peaceful conflict resolution is the way forward
18% plus more
Interested in blogging for timesofindia.com? We will be happy to have you on board as a blogger, if you have the knack for writing. Just drop in a mail attoiblogs@timesinternet.inwith a brief bio and we will get in touch with you.
TOI Edit Page,Voices
Erratica,TOI Edit Page,Tracking Indian Communities
Juggle-Bandhi,TOI Edit Page
TOI Edit Page
Copyright © 2024 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. For reprint rights: Times Syndication Service

Title:  U.S. Abrupt Withdrawal from Afghanistan will Bring 'Unpleasant Consequences'
ForgotUsernameorPassword

Date
(MENAFN- Daily Outlook Afghanistan) KABUL - A number of civil society organizations and military experts have warned of Unpleasant Consequences if the United States abruptly withdraw from Afghanistan.The U.S. and theTalibanofficials engaged in at least five round of talks on Afghanistan to each into aPoliticalsettlement in the war-torn country.Withdrawal of the U.S.troopsand preventing Afghanistan from being used against other countries have been the two key issues being discussed in the ongoing U.S.-Taliban talks in Qatar. Both sides yet to reach into a final agreement.Some Afghan military experts warned that Afghanistan condition will get worse if the U.S. abruptly leave Afghanistan.'If foreign forces don't properly equip the Afghan forces and leave Afghanistan, it will be harmful to Afghanistan, said Mohammad a military expert and former government official.The Taliban officials have repeatedly said that they will not rule Afghanistan alone this time and that will not re-impose the strict laws of pre-2001.However, civil society organizations said that there is no guarantee that the Taliban will turn the country back.'We don't feel that the Taliban are honest in the peace process. They [the Taliban] are still not ready to lay down their arms and reconsider their activities, said Mohammad Naim Nazari, head of Civil Society and Human Rights Network.As the U.S.-Taliban talks continue in Doha, the Interior Ministry, meanwhile, said that the Afghan security forces are able to maintain the security and defend the country, in case of U.S. pullout.He stressed the Afghan forces have taken the security responsibilities from the coalition forces since 2014 and that are shown the capability of defending the country. (ATN)MENAFN0603201901750000ID1098213291
MENAFN0603201901750000ID1098213291
MENAFN0603201901750000ID1098213291
MENAFN0603201901750000ID1098213291
Legal Disclaimer:MENAFNprovides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.

Tags
Comments
Category
Date
Daily(English)Daily(Arabic)All()

World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data.
Contact UsClick here
Copyright © 2000MENAFN.All rights reserved.
Design & Devleopment byMENAFN

Title:  Business & Financial - International News, Currencies & Economic Indicators
ForgotUsernameorPassword

Laapataa Ladies At Oscars 2025: Remarks On Women By Film Committee Spark Outrage Online    Here's Why
Addaera Research Centre Passes ISO Certification Audit For The 7Th Year In A Row
Father Faltas Briefs French President On Suffering Of Palestinian People
In Slick, Royce Kurmelovs Exposes Just How Long, And Hard, The Fossil Fuel Industry Has Worked To Advance Its Interests
Shabana Azmi Marks 50 Yrs In Film Industry: Reflecting On Legacy Of
 'Ankur', Rise Of Parallel Cinema
Bassetts Vitamins Selects Tin Man For Consumer Brief

World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data.Contact UsClick here
Contact UsClick here
Copyright © 2000MENAFN.All rights reserved.
Design & Devleopment byMENAFN

Title: Taliban an obstacle in peace process: Afghan CEO - The Siasat Daily – Archive
Kabul [Afghanistan]: Afghan Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Abdullah Abdullah on Wednesday (local time) said that the Taliban is an “obstacle” in the way of reaching peace in war-torn Afghanistan.
He also professed that the formation of a negotiation team can prevent the Taliban from making an “excuse” to avoid talks.
“Taliban has been the obstacle for taking the first step (for peace) because they have an excuse that we do not negotiate with government and that is why I say that Taliban is an obstacle on the way of reaching to peace,” Tolo news quoted Abdullah said as saying.
“As soon as a single voice represents Afghanistan’s people, including government and others, I think the opportunity for making excuses by the other side (Taliban) will decrease,” Abdullah added.
The remarks from the CEO came days after  US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad embarked on a visit to seven-country including Afghanistan and Pakistan.
In Kabul, Khalilzad is expected to hold consultations with the Afghan government and the status of US talks with the Taliban.
[source_without_link]ANI[/source_without_link]

Title: Wilayat Khorasan: Past And Present Dynamics In The Af-Pak Region – Analysis – Eurasia Review
A Journal of Analysis and News

Islamic State's flag
ByGeopolitical Monitor
By Riccardo Valle
On March 11th, according to the Amaq News Agency, an IS-related
incident occurred in Lahore, Pakistan, that resulted in the killing and
wounding of several Pakistani ISI members. Later, in issue 173 of its
weekly magazine al-Naba’,Islamic Statereported 59 military operations between the 7th and 14th of March,
including eight carried out in Khorasan by its regional organization,Islamic StateKhorasan Province, or ISKP.
ISKP is the result of a well-planned project designed between Syria
and the Af-Pak region. On 26th January 2015, Abu Muhammad al-Adnani, the
then IS chief spokesperson, officially announced in an audio statement
the establishment of Wilayat Khorasan. Although still mainly confined
within the oriental Afghan provinces of Kunar and Nangarhar, at the
border with Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province (which by May 2018
also includes the FATA), its regional ambition lies in the formation of a
great territorial entity stretching from the Central Asian Republics
and Afghanistan to Pakistan, including even Kashmir and Xinjiang. While
ISKP certainly cannot be militarily and financially equated to other
regional groups such as the Taleban and Al-Qaeda (AQ), it has still
benefited from the support of Islamic States’ Arab advisors in the past,
who have granted ISKP members both logistic and military training,
making it one of the deadliest groups operating across these countries.
Even before the proclamation of the Caliphate,Islamic Statehad developed a special interest for the Af-Pak region, which was seen
as a strategic avenue of expansion and a possible safe haven. For
instance, IS senior commander Abu Omar al-Shishani appointed Qari Wali
Rahman, an Afghan from Baghlan who had fought in Syria in 2013, as
Special Representative in Afghanistan to coordinate the affiliated
groups. However, the chosen man of IS was not Qari Wali Rahman but Hafiz
Saeed Khan, a former Tehrik-e Taliban Pakistan (TTP) senior commander
from Orakzai agency who, on 14th July 2012, had agreed to send
volunteers to AQ in Iraq and Syria.
When Hafiz Saeed’s volunteers as well as those sent by other groups,
such as the Haqqani Network and the Peshawar Shura, returned from Syria
and Iraq, their commanders started recruiting new sympathizers of
Islamic State ideology from among the locals. By 2014, IS emissaries had
already arrived in Afghanistan and Pakistan, establishing a local
branch which consisted initially of different allied but formally
independent groups. These were Tehrik-e Khilafat Khorasan (TKK), the
first officially IS-recognised group; Khilafat Afghan, created by Abdul
Kadhim Rauf, former Taliban from the Quetta Shura and allied with
another important IS sympathizer, Muslim Dost; Azizullah Haqqani’s
group, whose ranks were mainly composed of former Haqqani militants; and
Tehrik-e Khilafat Pakistan (TKP), the only one operating in Pakistan
and led by Hafiz Saeed Khan himself, the closest to Al-Baghdadi.
Estimates report that today’s ISKP military size could be between
3,000-5,000 members, which grows to 7,000-11,500 if we also consider the
manpower of other allied regional actors. This rapid growth in numbers
has been possible thanks to ISKP’s quick geographical expansion through
its affiliated groups and allies scattered all over the Af-Pak region,
and even beyond.
Wilayat Khorasan’s presence in Iran is certainly feeble but,
nonetheless, it was sufficient for the group to orchestrate the attack
on the Iranian parliament and on the Khomeini shrine on 7th July 2017.
Apparently, ISKP can count on the support of three separate groups:
Harakat Khilafat Baluchi, Khorasan Branch of Iran, and the West
Azerbaijan Islamic Movement.
In Central Asia, however, thanks to Tajik and Uzbek contingents who
fought for Islamic State in Syria, local jihadist groups have
established close relations with ISKP. Some of the most active groups
include the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU); Jamaat Ansarullah, the
main armed force in Tajikistan; Islamic Movement of Turkmenistan (IMT);
East Turkestan Islamic Movement/Party (ETIM/ETIP), one of the main
Uyghur armed opposition forces; Gansu Hui Group, a Chinese jihadist
group which actually operates as a Chinese Islamic State “penetration
project” in China.
Of particular interest is the case of Pakistan. Here not only do we
find the presence of groups who have been incorporated within the
structure of ISKP, such as Jaysh ul Islam and Mullah Bakhtwar’s group,
but also radical student groups who have been the target of an alluring
campaign financed with $5 million dollars. Students from the Karachi
University; a splinter group of Hizb-ut Tahrir called Saut-ul Ummah in
Lahore; even the students of Jamia Hafsa, affiliated of the Lal Masjid,
and others: they all declared their support for ISKP.
In addition, Wilayat Khorasan maintain strong ties with numerous
extremist groups in Pakistan, above all Lashkar-e Jhangvi and Jundullah,
both of them having declared bay’ah. While relations with TTP worsened
rapidly, other branches of the Pakistani Taliban such as Lashkar-e Islam
(LeI) still retain close links with ISKP. Finally, relations with
Lashkar-e Taiba (LeT), often labelled as the “private group of Pakistani
ISI,” are very poor, as ISKP, on the one hand, does not want to risk
attracting spies inside its ranks and, on the other, does not want to
challenge LeT’s interests.
Despite its rapid growth and the very impressive capacity, ISKP
suffered immediately from an extremely fragmented social and political
environment which often put into question the leadership of the entire
organization. One clear example is the rift between Hafiz Saeed and
Muslim Dost, the latter openly questioning the legitimacy of the former
in October 2015 to the point of claiming the governorship for himself.
Apparently, Hafiz Saeed had been trying to marginalize the role of all
the Afghan groups inside Wilayat Khorasan to favor his own, TKP. As a
result, the majority of the Afghan ISKP leaders refused to recognize
Hafiz Saeed, and the feud actually paralyzed the organization between
the end of 2015 and August 2016, when Hafiz Saeed was killed in a U.S.
drone airstrike.
While his death put an end to the old rift, it also gave birth to new
ones. Hasibullah Logari, an Afghan from TKK, was appointed as
“temporary governor” as he was close both to Al-Baghdadi and to the
Afghan leadership in Khorasan.
However, Logari was killed in May 2017 during a U.S. Special Forces
raid, and his death started the biggest leadership dispute within ISKP
ranks. The Military Shura of the organization chose as their new leader
Aslam Faruqi, a Pashtun Afridi and former LeT commander who joined
Islamic State in Syria in 2014. This move was perceived by some ISKP
members as the result of a secret agreement with the Pakistani ISI: in
return of the appointment of a leader allegedly in contact with the
Pakistani secret services and the cessation of all attacks inside
Pakistan, ISI could have promised access to safe havens in Pakistan.
However it may be, Faruqi’s appointment received support from his own
group, TKP, and from other three groups, TKK, Azizullah Haqqani’s and
Muslim Dost’s.
Nonetheless, his supposed closeness with ISI has also been a new source of divisions.
The Central Asian groups inside ISKP, such as Omar Ghazi Group, Gansu
Hui’s and Shamali Khilafat, as well as external supporters, like the
IMU and other Tajik affiliated groups, they all rejected the appointment
of Faruqi and chose Moawiya, a former Omar Ghazi commander, as their
new leader.
Concerning Wilayat Khorasan’s relations with the Taliban, it has to
be noted that, at least at the beginning, ISKP tried to reach a
non-aggression pact with the Afghan group. However, given the different
ideologies of the two groups and their territorial ambitions, they soon
started to confront each other, particularly in the Nangarhar Province.
As ACLED reported, at least 207 clashes between the Taliban and ISKP
militants occurred in 2017 alone.
The accusation moved against the Taliban are clearly stated in
various Dabiq issues. In issue 12 of Dabiq we read that “In Khurāsān,
al-Qā’idah is with the Taliban factions who announced their adoption of
nationalism and resistance towards al-walā’ wa-l-barā’ [loyalty and
disavowal] lied to the Ummah by attributing their deviant declarations
to the deceased Mullā ‘Umar, and shamelessly flaunted their brotherhood
with the apostate tawāghīt [those who believes in the idols] and the
Rāfidah [those who secede from Islam, but usually identify as the
Shias].” During an interview reported in issue 13 of Dabiq, Hafiz Saeed
told the interviewer “The nationalist Taliban movement only has control
of some regions of “Afghanistan,” nowhere else. As for ruling them by
Allah’s law, then it does not do that. Rather, they rule by tribal
customs and judge affairs in accordance with the desires and traditions
of the people, traditions opposing the Islamic Sharī’ah.”
Similarly, AQ initially tried to maintain good relations with ISKP,
at least in order to prevent some of its militants from joining the new
group. However, the two groups clashed several times, especially in
Kunar. In order to counter the growing influence of ISKP, in 2014 Ayman
al-Zawahiri established an AQ branch in India, Al-Qaeda in the Indian
Subcontinent (AQIS). In addition, he renewed his allegiance to the
Taliban and Mullah Omar – at that time his death being still unrevealed –
and launched a defamation campaign against ISKP. In issue 6 of Dabiq, a
defector from AQ who had joined IS, Abū Jarīr ash-Shamālī, reported
that their militants had been portrayed by AQ as “takfīrī, Khawārij,
killers of Muslims, Wahhābī”.
The future of Wilayat Khorasan still remains somehow uncertain.
While the territorial losses of Islamic State in Syria and Iraq have
surely forced the group to adopt a more dynamic, fluid strategy of
insurgency, ISKP can still count on the regional influence of its many
affiliated groups. It has certainly demonstrated that the group can
still carry out spectacular attacks such as the Kabul mortar shelling of
March 8th. Moreover, the current peace process between the Taliban and
the U.S. could favor ISKP, as many Taliban commanders who would reject
peace could join the group in response to the agreement. On the other
hand, ISKP is becoming more pragmatic. Not only is it abandoning its
strictly Kharijite rhetoric in favor of a more acquiescent approach,
especially towards tribal elders, but it is also trying to normalize its
relations with other groups such as the Quetta Shura. For instance,
Faruqi’s faction reached a precarious agreement with Akhundzada’sAfghan Talibanin 2017.
Moreover, ISKP can also exploit the divisions between the region’s political actors.
On the one hand, Moscow is worried about the continuous ISKP
penetrations in the Central Asian Republics, which could be destabilized
by the Islamists given their weak national security sector. On the
other, Iran is the only country in the region who is actively putting
pressure on the Taliban to counter ISKP, especially on their controlled
faction of the Mashhad Office. Iran also favors the Afghan peace process
and the Taliban in the hope of creating a friendly Taliban government
in Afghanistan.
However, India and Pakistan are the key actors in the fight against the instability of the region. While India and Afghanistan both accuse Pakistan of financing LeT and the Haqqani Network, and even consider ISKP to be nothing less than another Taliban branch, Pakistan has also accused the two countries of secretly supporting TTP and ISKP in order to undermine its security.
This article was published byGeopolitical Monitor.com
Geopoliticalmonitor.com is an open-source intelligence collection and forecasting service, providing research, analysis and up to date coverage on situations and events that have a substantive impact on political, military and economic affairs.
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Name*
Email*
Website

Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) is a field within artificial intelligence (AI) where researchers are working to develop a computer system that can
there are legitimate reasons for USA to dissolve. the country is divided and bankrupt whoever wins the next election will…
THIS IS ONE OF THE WORSE PIECES EVER POSTED ON EURASIA REVIEW, MOST RACIST, ANTI-SEMITIC ANTI-UKRAINIAN RANT. WHY DID ER…
This is either the most self-deceiving rose-tinted spectacles view of Russia I have ever read, or a despicable set of…
It is wishful thinking to expect Gwadar Port to be a game changer for Pakistan. It has not materialized so…
How is One Nation, One Election be The Death Knell to India’s flourishing democracy? India is NOT an evolving democracy.…

Title: Militant Raid Kills 6 Security Forces in SW Pakistan
Print
Militants carried out a pre-dawn assault Wednesday on a security outpost in southwestern Pakistan, killing at least six paramilitary forces.
The attack occurred in Ziarat, a remote district in the country’s largest and natural resource-rich Baluchistan province.
Qadir Bakhsh Pirkani, the deputy commissioner of Ziarat, told VOA security forces have launched a search operation in the area to try to capture the “terrorists” who carried out the attack, about 50 kilometers from the provincial capital, Quetta.
The outlawed Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), commonly referred to as the Pakistani Taliban, claimed responsibility for plotting the raid.
A purported TTP spokesman alleged in a statement the raid was carried out to avenge killings of some of its members by security personnel deployed at the outpost.
Sparsely populated Baluchistan, which shares a border with Afghanistan and Iran, routinely experiences militant attacks.
In addition to TTP,several secessionist groups are active in the province along with a regional affiliate of Islamic State, known as Khorasan Province (ISKP), which Pakistani officials say operates out of volatile border areas of Afghanistan.
On Sunday, a bomb detonated in one of the cars of a Quetta-bound train, killing four passengers and wounding at least eight others. Baluch separatists claimed responsibility for the bombing.
The ethnic-based low-level insurgency has long defended its violent campaign, accusing the central government of unfairly exploiting the region’s gas and mineral wealth.
Pakistani officials reject the charges and insist economic uplift in the relatively underdeveloped province has lately been the priority for local and federal government.
Baluchistan is home to several major Chinese-funded infrastructure projects being built under the multi-billion dollar bilateral China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).


Title: Militant raid kills 6 security forces in SW Pakistan

Militants carried out a pre-dawn assault Wednesday on a security outpost in southwestern Pakistan, killing at least six paramilitary forces.
The attack occurred in Ziarat, a remote district in the country’s largest and natural resource-rich Baluchistan province.
Qadir Bakhsh Pirkani, the deputy commissioner of Ziarat, told VOA security forces have launched a search operation in the area to try to capture the “terrorists” who carried out the attack, about 50 kilometers from the provincial capital, Quetta.
The outlawed Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), commonly referred to as the Pakistani Taliban, claimed responsibility for plotting the raid.
A purported TTP spokesman alleged in a statement the raid was carried out to avenge killings of some of its members by security personnel deployed at the outpost.
Sparsely populated Baluchistan, which shares a border with Afghanistan and Iran, routinely experiences militant attacks.
In addition to TTP, several secessionist groups are active in the province along with a regional affiliate of Islamic State, known as Khorasan Province (ISKP), which Pakistani officials say operates out of volatile border areas of Afghanistan.
On Sunday, a bomb detonated in one of the cars of a Quetta-bound train, killing four passengers and wounding at least eight others. Baluch separatists claimed responsibility for the bombing.
The ethnic-based low-level insurgency has long defended its violent campaign, accusing the central government of unfairly exploiting the region’s gas and mineral wealth.
Pakistani officials reject the charges and insist economic uplift in the relatively underdeveloped province has lately been the priority for local and federal government.
Baluchistan is home to several major Chinese-funded infrastructure projects being built under the multi-billion dollar bilateral China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).
Want to send us a story? SMS to 25170 or WhatsApp0743570000or Submit onCitizen Digitalor emailwananchi@royalmedia.co.ke


No comments yet.
© 2024 Citizen Digital. All rights reserved.

Title: Bomb blasts around Afghanistan capital kill 6 during Norwuz celebrations
At least six people were killed by blasts in Kabul during Persian New Year celebrations in a Shiite area of the Afghan capital, authorities said, in the latest violence to hit the war-torn city.
“Twenty-three were wounded and six people were martyred in today’s explosions in Kabul,” health ministry spokesman Wahidullah Mayar told AFP, with the interior ministry confirming the toll on Thursday, March 21.
In a message to AFP, the Taliban denied responsibility for the attack, which police said had been caused by three remote-controlled mines – one placed in the washroom of a mosque, one behind a hospital, and one in an electricity meter.
The blasts were near Kabul University and the Karte Sakhi shrine, where many Afghans gather every year to mark Nowruz, which is the traditional Persian New Year holiday but considered un-Islamic by Muslim fundamentalists.
“As we celebrate this auspicious day to bind us together our fellow citizens witnessed another devastating day in #Kabul,” President Ashraf Ghaniwroteon Twitter.
“We lost peaceful citizens to a coward enemy that knows no bounds.”
Kabul police spokesperson Basir Mujahid said a fourth mine was defused near Kabul University, and that authorities were searching for any others that may have been placed in the area.
But he added that the mines were far from the main site of the celebrations.
Exactly one year ago, a blast near a crowd celebrating at the shrine killed 33 people in an attack claimed byIslamic State Khorasan province.
In September,a suicide bomber blew himself up inside a sports club in Dasht-e-Barchi, a majority Shiite neighborhood of Kabul, killing and wounding nearly 100 people. A month earlier,48 people were killed in an explosion at an education center in Dasht-e-Barchi.
ISKP said it was behind both attacks.
Interior ministry spokesperson Nasrat Rahimi said police had discovered and defused 20 more explosive devices in Herat, Balkh and Kabul on Thursday.
The National Directorate of Securitysaidthat security forces had arrested six ISIS members, including two would-be suicide bombers, in the capital.
ISKP, which regularly targets Shiites in an attempt to stir up sectarian violence in Sunni-majority Afghanistan, has also attacked the shrine once before, in October 2016, when its gunmen killed 18 people gathered there to mark Ashura, an important date for many Muslims, especially Shiites.
Fear and mourning in Afghanistan: Hazaras mark the festival of Muharram in fragile Dasht-e-Barchi

With reporting from AFP
The Defense Post aims to publish a wide range of high-quality opinion and analysis from a diverse array of people – do you want to send us yours?Click here to submit an Op-Ed

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: 87 ISIS terrorists killed in eastern Afghanistan

IRNA - Islamic Republic News Agency
Kabul, March 27, IRNA -- Afghanistan National Security Council spokesman announced that 87 members of ISIS (Daesh) were killed in Achin District, Nangarhar Province.
Speaking to reporters on Tuesday, Ahmad Tareq Arin said the terrorists were affiliated to Khorasan wing of ISIS.
He added that 8 terrorists were injured and two suicide attackers were also busted.
Despite the fact that Afghan president had earlier declared defeat of Daesh in eastern Afghanistan, but ISIS is still active in Nangarhar.
Russian has recently reported establishment of new ISIS center in northern Afghanistan, but Afghan officials had no comment on it.
Earlier, Commander of Kandahar police Tadin Khan announced that a member of Afghanistan House of the People Obeidollah Barkazi was assassinated by unknown assailants.
An explosion also in a ceremony in Helmand, southern Afghanistan claimed the lives of 3 and injured 31 more.
A member of provincial council, border guard police commander and head of economy department of the province were among those who were injured.
Some sources claimed that Helmand governor was also injured.
Taliban has claimed the responsibility of the attack.
Taliban is seriously against Nowruz celebrations and had earlier banned holding these ceremonies.
Meanwhile earlier, three consecutive explosions shook Karte Sakhi, Kabul, the capital of Afghanistan, on Thursday morning.
Karte Sakhi is the place for commemorating Nowruz festival in Afghanistan.
The first explosion took place in Nowruz commutation place, the second one on a road leading to the same place from Kabul University, and, ten minutes later, the third one in Kabul University.
The incident claimed the lives of 6 people and injured 23 more.
9376**2050



Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: As the U.S. Declares ISIS Defeated, Here's a Look Back at When the Taliban Was 'Defeated' in 2001
When United States-backed fighters announced the final defeat of ISIS on Saturday, it wasn’t the first time the world proclaimed defeat of the self-declared caliphate, which at one point controlled a territory the size of Portugal, home to 7.7 million civilians. In December, President Donald Trump surprised American allies when hedeclared victory against ISIS, and announced the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Syria. Then, on February 15th, Trump predicted that the “eradication of the caliphate” would be announced in the next 24 hours.
But something about Saturday’s victory announcement seemed different: As a spokesperson for the Syrian Democratic Forces (a Kurdish and Arab coalition backed by the U.S.)announced, anti-ISIS fighters had accomplished the “total elimination of so-called caliphate and 100 [percent] territorial defeat of ISIS.”
Aboard Air Force One on Friday, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sandersshowed reportersbefore-and-after maps of ISIS territory, which illustrated the group’s once vast extent in Syria and Iraq next to maps empty of ISIS colors. The “territorial caliphate has been eliminated in Syria,” Sanders said. But experts have beenquick to warnthat ISIS’s territorial defeat does not mean that the group has been vanquished. Even though ISIS no longer controls any territory, over 15,000 ISIS fighters, many of them armed, remain in the region.
The battle against the Taliban government in Afghanistan offers a stark warning against early proclamations of victory, and the Taliban’s resurgence in recent years reveals how a territorial defeat is only the first part of a war against a staunch ideological force.
In 2001, three months after 9/11 and just nine weeks after a U.S.-led coalition invaded Afghanistan, the Pentagon announced that the Taliban had been defeated in Afghanistan.In November of 2001, the U.S. closed in on the group’slast stronghold in northern Afghanistan, and,in December of that year, the Pentagon declared victory over the Taliban. As theNew York Timesreported, then-Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz was careful to warn that the territorial defeat did not mean that the war was over—but he did go on to say that total victory could be predicted within the year. According to theTimes, Wolfowitz said, “The American people have to be prepared for the fact that we may be hunting Taliban and al-Qaeda in Afghanistan months from now.”
History has since revealed that predictions of the Taliban’s imminent demise were overly optimistic. The U.S.-Afghanistan war is now in its 17th year, making it the longest war in American history. And though, in 2001, theTimesreported that “no new Taliban government is expected to rise,” today the Taliban—resurgent in Afghanistan—is in peace talks with the U.S that manycommentators believealready represent a major victory for the group. As Abdulkader Sinno, a scholar on Afghan war and conflict at Indiana University–Bloomington, wrote for theThe Conversationearlier this month, by 2004, the Taliban had managed to “reconstitute itself as an effective force of insurgents to fight the U.S. and the Afghan government, and they became stronger every year.”
In recent years, the Taliban has made considerable territorial gains and has killed thousands of Afghan troops every month. Sinno explains that the Taliban’s resurgence has pressured the U.S. into peace talks, rather than trying to accomplish outright victory: “They already were rewarded by getting to negotiate directly with the U.S., as they have always requested, instead of the Afghan regime, which they despise,” Sinno writes. “If the negotiations are successful, they would also be getting precisely what they asked for: an American withdrawal.”
Today, the Taliban has Kabul and control of the country within its grasp. The ongoing battle against the Taliban offers a stark example of how even a complete territorial defeat is only one kind of victory.
© 2024 Grist

Title: While Islamic State Seems Routed In Syria And Iraq, Over 20 Radicalised Keralites Hang On, In Afghan Province
Insta
Swarajya Staff
Mar 25, 2019, 11:58 AM | Updated  11:58 AM IST
Save & read from anywhere!
Bookmark stories for easy access on any device or theSwarajya app.
Despite the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) losing its territory in both Iraq and Syria, around two dozen radicalised Indians from Kerala are still living in Nangarhar province of Afghanistan which they continue to call the Islamic State of Khorasan,reportsHindustan Times.
The report cited ISIS watchers as saying that a group comprising 21 Kerala men, some of them with their wives and children, went to Afghanistan via Iran in 2016. Two more families joined them in 2018 taking the total to 31. As per the intelligence officials, eight of these people have died either fighting or due to illness.
According to the report, around 110 Indians were attracted to the radical ideology of ISIS and its founder Al-Baghdadi since the terror outfit’s rise in Iraq and Syria post 2006.
On Saturday (23 March) Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces had announced that the last shred of land controlled by ISIS in Syria had been conquered,NDTVhasreported.
According to theNDTVreport, following the declaration of ISIS defeat, dozens of the group’s terrorists surrendered to United States-backed forces in eastern Syria on Sunday (25 March).
Join ourWhatsApp channel- no spam, only sharp analysis
Comments↓
About Swarajya
Shaping the modern Indian's worldview, speaking on behalf of those invested in the cultural and economic prosperity of India. Published since 1956.
Swarajya is a publication by Kovai Media Private Limited.
Useful Links
Useful Links
Participate
Stay Connected

Title: Rukmini Callimachi explains: What the fall of the last ISIS village in Syria means | Explained News - The Indian Express
How important was territory to the IS, and what does the loss of that territory mean for it?
ISIS has been in Iraq since the 2000s. For a long time it held no territory at all. But it was a no less deadly or destructive force then. In many ways, the Caliphate period is an anomaly, an outlier if you look at the arc of the group’s history. Starting in 2014, it took large swathes of territory in Iraq and Syria, and that was the time when it declared itself the Caliphate. At one time, it was literally the size of Great Britain.
It collected taxes from millions of people and that allowed them to become the world’s richest terrorist group. It used that safe haven to make a number of innovations including learning how to manufacture their own weapons, their own rockets and mortars. That made it self-sufficient. So territory was crucial to the height they reached as a terrorist organisation.
The loss of territory means they no longer have the ability to collect taxes, they no longer have the most visible symbol of their brand which allowed them to recruit tens of thousands of foreign fighters.
But ISIS lives on and today it is much stronger than it was in 2011, when American troops pulled out of Iraq and the group was considered defeated. At that point, CIA estimated that the group had just 700 fighters. Now according to General Joseph Votel [the top US general overseeing military operations in the Middle East], it has tens of thousands of fighters, and is present as a physical insurgency in Iraq and Syria and remains as deadly and as destructive a terrorist forces as it was.
When I was in Syria in February [to report on the battle to liberate Baghuz, the last piece of land under ISIS control], we had to travel 100 miles over a highway that had been liberated years ago to reach Baghuz. And yet every week, there are ambushes and IED attacks on that road by ISIS. My driver was more scared to drive that highway that had been liberated than he was of going to the frontline in Baghuz.
When the coalition forces liberate an area, there’s a honeymoon period when ISIS fighters retreat, and there are no attacks. But after coalition forces withdraw, it becomes an area of insecurity, it becomes an area that is under threat from the ISIS. They may not be able to hold a city, but they threaten a city; they may not be able to hold a road, but they threaten a road.
In December of 2017, the Prime Minister of Iraq declared ISIS had been defeated. In just the 10 months since then, there have been over 1,270 attacks in Iraq.
What reaction from ISIS can we expect to this loss? A regrouping to take back territory? Is it capable of that? Or does it decide now that it is far easier to be an amorphous organisation with members, franchises all across the world?
In the way people seem to think about ISIS, there is this dichotomy — that ISIS is either territory, or it is an idea in people’s heads. That misses the piece in between. ISIS continues to exist as a physical insurgency, in Iraq and Syria.
It has lost its territory but it still has thousands of ISIS fighters just in Iraq and Syria. And that’s not counting their presence outside Iraq and Syria. ISIS’s Khorasan province, its province in East Asia in the Philippines, ISIS’s West Africa province, are not ideas in the heads of people. These are groups that are robust on the ground and there is enough evidence to suggest that there is connective tissue between the affiliates and ISIS’s core group in Iraq and Syria.
A claim of an attack in Afghanistan put up by ISIS’s affiliate uses the same template as a claim of attack by ISIS in Iraq or Syria. That shows that ISIS is at a minimum coordinating the media output of its far-flung branches.
Where is ISIS strongest now outside of Iraq and Syria?
ISIS’s presence is strong and growing in Afghanistan, in the Philippines and in West Africa. Anecdotally we are seeing evidence of some foreign fighters travelling to these outposts instead of Iraq and Syria, suggesting a pattern. The estimates we have in Afghanistan is that they have 2,500 fighters, according to a recent United Nations report. They are present from Nangarhar to Kunar and Kabul.
Also read |Iraqi leader says there’s ‘consensus’ on US troops presence
Where is all the money that ISIS collected?
No one really knows, but some of the ISIS operatives that were caught fleeing ISIS’s last territory in Syria were carrying huge amounts of cash, like $20,000. There are also reports that ISIS has invested some of its cash in local businesses.
And where is Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, and how strong is his hold over ISIS now?
No one really knows where Baghdadi is but the working theory is that he is somewhere in Iraq and Syria. He is the Caliph of the Islamic State, and he is the person to whom every fighter pledges his allegiance and so he remains an important symbol for the group.
Is it correct that ISIS not been able to grow in Afghanistan because of a pushback from the Taliban? And in a situation where the Taliban may well be in power in Kabul, are governments now dependent on the Taliban to keep Daesh out of Afghanistan?
I am surprised that you think ISIS has not grown in Afghanistan. Remember, in 2011, according to the CIA there were only around 700 ISIS fighters in Iraq. There are several multiples of that in Afghanistan today. The Taliban and ISIS are groups that are at odds, and the Taliban has been fighting ISIS for some time. This is not a new development.
What about India? The country has the third largest Muslim population in the world, yet it has managed to keep ISIS down to less than 100. Do you think in its post-territory phase, ISIS would be looking at India?
India is in many ways an example of countering radicalisation. You have close to 200 million Muslims and less than 100 persons have travelled to join the group in Iraq and Syria. Compare that to Tajikistan, a country that has a Muslim population of 9 million. And over 1,300 of them have travelled to join ISIS.
There have been of late numerous acts of violence against Muslims in India as well as theBJPrhetoric against Islam — which creates fertile ground for radicalisation, but to me the low numbers clearly point to the fact that despite the difficulties, the country still seems to be doing something right. It speaks to the plurality of your society that the ISIS message has not seeped down.
Read |Syrian army says Israeli strikes hit northern Aleppo city, damages materials only
There have been frequent arrests of ISIS suspects…
There were media reports of arrests made late last year [in December] and though I have not read the intelligence reports on that, the plot had a sophistication that suggested that the Khorasan province must be looking at India.
You have written about how the so-called lone wolves arrested in India in 2016 were not really so, but were being mentored and guided extensively down to arranging weapons by their online recruiters.
The style of the attacks that were being plotted inHyderabadwas entirely remote-controlled, by ISIS operatives based abroad. That style of attack seems to have been contingent on a safe haven in the Islamic State somewhere in Syria. It was a low-risk, low-cost manoeuvre. How the loss of territory affects that kind of operation, we have yet to see. We have evidence that they have moved resources to Khorasan and Libya. Is the remote-controlled style of attacks going to find another safe haven somewhere else?
Read |ISIS’ territory may be gone, but the US fight against the group is far from over
There is also the Rohingya issue which must be attractive to ISIS…
ISIS is always pushing a narrative of Muslim victimhood, but one of the ironies is that their message has been most receptive amongst Muslims that have experienced little or no discrimination themselves. Take Huzayfah, the Canadian recruit profiled in Caliphate, who explains that he and his family were treated well in Canada, and yet he decided to join the group. By contrast, Muslim communities that have experienced real trauma and true discrimination have been almost immune to ISIS recruitment. I do not know of a single Rohingya Muslim that has joined ISIS and the number of Uighur Muslims from China that have joined ISIS are miniscule.
This is where I think ISIS propaganda falls flat. So while the Rohingya and the Uighurs are experiencing great suffering and hardship, I have not seen anything to suggest that ISIS has made any real inroads there.
How serious is the ISIS threat in Kashmir? There have been ISIS flags on occasion, but also the feeling that Daesh does not pose a threat in Kashmir…
In most of the countries that have had an ISIS attack, local authorities initially deny the ISIS presence. Take Bangladesh. The attack at the Holey Artisan Bakery in Dhaka was by the Islamic State and we know this because as the attack was ongoing, the militants were able to send photos from inside the venue directly to ISIS’s central media apparatus. The wholesale denial of ISIS’s role by Bangladesh, even though the attackers were posting in real time on ISIS’s official media, is just ludicrous. On the Telegram chatrooms that I am in — these are authentic ISIS chatrooms — I have seen the ISIS flag being displayed in Kashmir. While the extent of ISIS’s support in the Valley is unclear and the amount of coordination they have with ISIS’s central organisation is unknown, I think denying the presence outright would not be correct.
How Marxist Anura Kumara Dissanayake won Sri Lanka’s PresidencySubscriber Only
Sound of guns is normal: No rest for village onSubscriber Only
Why AAP chose Atishi: How it gives party chance toSubscriber Only
PM Modi in US: What is the Quad grouping?
UPSC Key | Takeaways of Quad Summit, Joint Commanders’ Conference,Subscriber Only
17 years on, kidnap victim gives closing argument in ownSubscriber Only
If we still have a Kashmir problem, it’s because ofSubscriber Only
100 years of the discovery of the Indus CivilisationSubscriber Only
India’s data centre ambitions will have to go through Malaysia,Subscriber Only
Sanjeev Kumar, a talented actor, had a passion for food and even rented a house to satisfy his love for non-vegetarian dishes. Fellow actors Shammi Kapoor, Shatrughan Sinha, and Randhir Kapoor would often join him for late-night feasts. Sachin Pilgaonkar revealed this in a recent interview, highlighting Sanjeev's love for food and his bond with his colleagues.



Title: At last, the caliphate falls
It ended in Baghouz, a little speck of a border village in the bland, almost featureless expanse of Syrian desert. A weeks-long siege ended in victory for U.S.-backed military forces. Islamic State was defeated. And the last trace of the terror group's "caliphate" dissolved into the desert dust.
ISIS territory once spanned a broad swath of Iraq and Syria, including the sprawling city of Mosul, Iraq's second-largest. Now the caliphate is done. Vanished and vanquished. It's unclear if ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi is still alive, or where he is if he's still breathing.
But we do know that ISIS has been sent back to its roots — an itinerant, disorganized mob of international terrorists who remain a threat, but not the way they once were. ISIS elements are operating in Afghanistan, various Middle Eastern nations and across northern Africa. Following its members, tracking them down and stopping them will remain a job for American and allied nations. Vigilance is very much in order, lest the group spring back to life and power the way the Taliban has done in Afghanistan.
But for now, the end of the caliphate means a trip home for about 2,000 American troops who have helped wage the battle in Syria. About 200 will remain there, mostly to assure safety for our Kurdish allies who have led the way in the battle against ISIS.
The caliphate's demise is a welcome improvement.

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:44Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:44Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Weather Crusades: Dozens feared dead after devastating flash floods hit Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iran - Strange Sounds
Heavy rain has caused flash flooding and landslides in areas of Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan over the last few days. Parts of Kandahar Province in Afghanistan recorded around half its annual rainfall in 30 hours. Parts of Pakistan have also been affected by severe snowstorms. According to media reports, as many as 50 people have died as a result of flooding, landslides or collapsing buildings across the 3 countries.
Heavy rain in Afghanistan has caused flooding in the provinces of Kandahar, Kunar, Zabul, Nimroz, Hirat and Farah, according to a report by the United Nations. Infrastructure as well as hundreds of homes have been damaged.
Heavy rain fell in Kandahar Province from 01 March, 2019. UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA) said that flooding affected Kandahar city and the districts of Zheri, Dand, Damand, Arghandab, Spinboldak, and Takhtapu.
Around97 mm of rain fell in 30 hours, which is the equivalent of abouthalf the annual rainfall for the area.As recently as Januaryparts of the province were suffering from drought.
Initial reports suggested that as manyas 20 people had died in Kandahar Provincewhen their homes collapsed or the vehicles they were traveling in were swept away.A further 10 people were reported as missingand it was feared that up to2,000 homes have been damaged.Schools and public buildings have suffered damage.
#AfghanistanNational Army evacuated those affected by floods in Punjwaye district of#Kandaharprovince. Taking timely steps, the government has set up shelters for thes ppl in Kandahar city.The man (with a winter hat talking to a woman) is deputy governor Abdul Hanan Munib.pic.twitter.com/3F6qhk4P8R
Since then updated reports have confirmed8 fatalities, with 18 people injured and 10 missing.More than1,000 people stranded by the flood waters have been rescuedby the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF). In Arghandab district alone, an estimated1,500 families have been affected by the floods;the majority of the affected people are from the Kochi (nomadic) community.
In Farah Province, local media reports say that85% of Farah City is underwaterfollowing heavy rains on 02 March, 2019.
په کندهار کي د اورښتونو او سيلابونو له کبله ٧ کسانو ژوند له لاسه ورکړى او يو شمېر نور ټپیان شوي دي.خلک وايي، چي د طبیعي پېښو پر وړاندي دولت هيڅ چمتوالى نلري؛ نو، ځکه زيانونه ورته اوښتي دي.pic.twitter.com/AbWgBeZ3zx
UNOCHA say that the districts ofKorji, Qala-e-Ghulam Sediq, Police Districts 1, 2, 3, Hanif Abad, Shaikh Abad and Anar Dara in the province have also been severely affected by flooding.Roads have been blocked by flood water causing severe transport problems.Telecommunications are down,hampering communication between flood-affected people, local authorities and humanitarian partners.
A total of500 families have been displaced in the province, according to UNOCHA, while ANSF are carrying out rescue operations to relocate people trapped by the flood waters.
In Hirat, flooding has been reported in Shindand, Zawol, Zirkoh, Pashtunzarghun and Obe districts. InShindand 200 houses have reportedly been swept away.UNOCHA said that the full extent of the damage in other affected districts is still being assessed.
Military have carried out large-scale rescue operations in Balochistan province after flash flooding. Meanwhile as many as14 people have reportedly diedin severe weather in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. This is thesecond spate of deadly flash flooding within two weeks in the two provinces.
Local media report that as many as10 people have died after heavy snowfall and floodingin parts of Balochistan province. Around1,500 stranded families have been rescued by militaryin Lasbela and Qillah Abdulla districts.
Pak security forces busy in rescue operations in and around flood hit Turbat, Balochistanpic.twitter.com/7REZ3Z5VkB
Chagai district has also been severely affected. Pakistan military have distributedrelief items and food rations to 3,500 families in the rain-affected areas.
Local media also said thatheavy rain and snow had caused landslides and floodingin Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province, leaving as many as12 people dead and 14 injured. The affected districts include Khyber, North Waziristan, South Waziristan, Charsadda and Tank.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa’s Provincial Disaster Management Authority (PDMA) said thatbad weather caused damage to 31 houses in different parts of the province.
Meanwhile local media in Iran report that3 border guards have died in flash floodingin Sistan and Baluchestan Province, whichborders Pakistan’s Balochistan Province.
Three#Iranianborder guards were killed in heavy rain and flood that hit the city of#Mirjavehin Iran’s southeastern province of#Sistanand#Baluchestanpic.twitter.com/YVHHDhtLYD
Meanwhile the Iranian Red Crescent Society (IRCS) said it has offered relief services to over11,700 people and travellers who needed help due to snowfall and flooding from 27 February.IRCS said that as many as163 towns, villages and nomad groups in 25 provinces have been affected.
Are some countries trying new WEATHER WEAPONS of mass destruction?
[FloodList]
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.


Δ
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.Learn how your comment data is processed.


Title: What Afghan Soldiers Think About U.S. Troop Withdrawal and Taliban Peace Talks
KABUL, Afghanistan —As the world watches peace talks between the Taliban and United States representatives in Doha, Qatar, Afghans are acutely aware of how much is on the line for their country—especially members of the Afghan National Security Forces.
The men and women of the ANSF have spent the last 18 years fighting for two countries: their homeland, and the U.S. As bodies were still being recovered from the wreckage of the World Trade Center in 2001, Afghans foughtshona ba shona, “shoulder to shoulder,” with U.S. forces to push the Taliban out of Afghanistan.
Eighteen years later, both America and Afghanistan find themselves far short of their goals to create a peaceful future for the country without the Taliban. Few Afghans I spoke to expressed confidence in a military solution to the now 18-year war. Those in the military continue to suffer the majority of casualties, even as civilian casualties havereached their highest levelssince 2009. On January 25th, President Ashraf Ghanirevealedthat 45,000 Afghan security personnel, including policemen and those in the army, have been killed since U.S. forces ceased offensive operations in Afghanistan in 2014. The casualty rate for Afghan security forces has beendescribedby a U.S. official as “unsustainable.”
The Taliban controls or disputes more than half the country. It carried out a number of attacks on the date of the October parliamentary election (held years behind schedule), making that day the single deadliest day for Afghan civilians in 2018. The  week of the election, the American commander for all U.S. forces in Afghanistan narrowlyescaped a Taliban attackin Kandahar, where General Abdul Raziq—acontroversial but belovedAfghan National Army general—was assassinated. The governor of Helmand Province, where over 100 U.S. Marines were killed in four years of fighting from 2010 to 2014, wasmurderedby a bomb hidden in a couch.
In addition to battling each other, the Afghan government and the Taliban fight against al-Qaeda’s stepchild, Daesh—known to Americans as ISIS—in Nangarhar Province on the Afghan–Pakistan border. In 2018 Daesh caused twice as many civilian casualties as it had in 2017.
As the snow begins to melt after one of the coldest winters in recent memory, the Taliban and the Afghan military have stepped up their attacks on each other. The thaw has caused massive flash floods in the very provinces where a majority of the fighting occurs, further punishing the civilians caught between the government and the Taliban. Both sides blame the other for the increased violence, holding up the others’ unwillingness to cease combat operations as proof of a lack of interest in peace.
(Photo: Wakil Kohsar/AFP/Getty Images)
Peace talksbetween the Taliban and the U.S. government so far have pointedly excluded the Afghan government in Kabul. It’s a move eerily reminiscent of negotiations in Paris in the final days of the Vietnam War: talks that ultimately ended in a full withdraw of U.S. military troops and the collapse of South Vietnam fewer than two years later. History suggests America’s investment in Afghanistan is far more concerned with counterterrorism than the success of the Afghan government.
Afghans, regardless of allegiance, know that this is a decisive moment for the future of their country.
I spoke with young Afghan soldiers in Afghanistan this month to see how they feel about the peace talks, their service, and their biggest ally that may soon leave them to fight the Taliban on their own. It’s on their shoulders that the future of Afghanistan rests, peace deal or no. If America withdraws its military and financial support of the Afghan government, the ANSF will be the thin line holding out against a resurgent Taliban, now armed with the spoils of 18 years of war and corruption. If a peace deal is brokered, the complicated process of maintaining a peace no one can quite envision today will fall on their shoulders. Until a resolution is reached, good or bad, they will continue to hold out.
Despite the increasing number of ANSF casualties, young Afghans continue to compete for the chance to join Afghanistan’s security forces. Long-standing ethnic divisions in Afghanistan have forced the military to adopt a quota system for accepting recruits, ensuring the most visible arm of the Kabul government is not seen as an extension of previous ethnic conflict. It’s a system that almost stopped Ali (whose name has been changed at his request), a bright young Afghan from Uruzgan, in central Afghanistan, from fulfilling his dream.
Born in 1998, Ali does not remember the Taliban era, but one of his earliest memories is of American fighter planes flying overhead in the early years of the war. “When I was a child I dreamed of being in the army,” Ali told me in Kabul. “I saw a plane passing overhead and I wished to be a pilot for the military.”
His family and friends supported his dream; his parents told him they would be proud of any job of his as long as he was not a terrorist or a thief.
A few months ago Ali finished high school and sat for the KANKOR exam, the Afghan standardized test taken after high school that determines eligibility for everything from universities to employment opportunities. The highest score is 360 and Ali scored a 312, the kind of result that opens doors to lucrative government and non-governmental organization jobs, as well as universities. Despite the myriad of less dangerous and higher-paying options, Ali was firm in his desire to serve.
From Ali’s area, only 10 members of his ethnicity were allowed to join the military. Despite having the highest score of all who tried to join, he was told he was not selected for service. Ali was crushed, but decided to appeal to the government in Kabul. An Afghan news outlet picked up his story, and a social media campaign finally helped him reach the attention of high-level government officials. Eventually, Ghani himself intervened on his behalf, and Ali was finally allowed to join. Next month he starts training, an experience he is eager for.
Ali spoke quickly, with a quiet but urgent cadence. When I asked him if he is afraid, he shook his head. Like young Americans who join the military, he had not learned to be afraid of war. He was inspired and determined to fight. “I know it’s dangerous but it’s my choice. If you believe in the country and peace, you don’t think about the danger.”
Afghans have polarized reactions to American and Afghan air power. For those who’ve been on the receiving end of airstrikes that miss their intended target or destroy homes housing both Taliban and civilians, the presence of military aircraft can become a major wedge between them and the Kabul government. For those who’ve been protected by U.S. and Afghan forces, the air power is proof of an Afghan military that is modern and self-sustaining.
The Afghan Air Force is a vital component for an Afghan military that can stand on its own once U.S. and international forces leave Afghanistan.According to most experts, it’s far from being ready to fly solo.
(Photo: Sylvie Lanteaume/AFP/Getty Images)
During a recent visit to the Afghan Air Force headquarters in Kabul, foreign contractors could be seen guiding Afghan Air Force repair technicians. But Lieutenant General Mohammad Shoaib, the commander of the Afghan Air Force, suggested his men and women are more ready to take up the fight alone than previously described in the press. He pointed out that the Air Force now conducts air operations without the aid of international forces, and noted the growing number of female pilots being trained who will join their male comrades on missions. He admitted the maintenance side of the Air Force is still at about 40 percent capacity to function autonomously—hence the heavy presence of foreign contractors and U.S. military advisers needed to keep their fleet of helicopters and airplanes operational.
I mentioned Ali to Shoaib, and asked him his thoughts about young Afghans who wish to become pilots for the Army. He chuckled, and spread his hands across his desk as he explained.
“For 100 slots, we get 1,000 volunteers. Everyone wants to be a pilot,” he said. “But we need them in other areas like maintenance and operations.”
Before we could wrap up the interview, the door to his office opened. A U.S. Army colonel walked in, careful not to speak until I left the room. He was flanked by two other U.S. Army officers, both women, and both armed with M-4 assault rifles and holstered pistols. As I stepped out into the adjoining waiting room, three more members of his armed security escort, wearing full body armor and tightly gripping their rifles, stood next to plush couches meant for guests.
It was a jarring reminder of the relationship between U.S. forces in Afghanistan and their allies in the Afghan government: a relationship plagued by fear, misunderstanding, and frustration. “Green on blue” attacks—in which Afghan soldiers attacked Americans on base, sometimes while the Americans were unarmed—were more common in previous years and led to joint U.S./ANSF bases becoming segregated with Americans on one side and Afghan soldiers on their own. American leadership argued that these attacks were committed by hardened Taliban fighters who joined the Afghan Army with the sole intention of attacking when the time was right. Some ANSF soldiers suggest that the treatment of Afghan soldiers by U.S. forces may have been at least partially responsible as well.
As with the American military, part of the appeal of the Afghan Air Force is the relative safety to be found among the clouds or inside a hanger. But a majority of Afghans who join the army end up in combat and support units deployed across the country, feet firmly planted on the ground—ground that can turn deadly in an instant if one triggers an improvised explosive device.
The soldiers who spoke with me did so on the condition of anonymity. They were all of university age, though none seemed to have considered college an option economically. Even those who described lifelong dreams of military service acknowledged that employment was as much a motivator as patriotism. All had seen combat, some for years on end.
Many described a sense of change recently, in their friends and families, and in the people they meet on patrol and while on leave in safer parts of the country. Some suggested the American withdraw is, if not completely to blame, certainly increasing the sense of unease and fear.
“In the beginning my family really supported me, but because of the situation now my family doesn’t support me and my friends aren’t supporting me,” explained a soldier who’d fought in Wardak Province in the center of the country. Today, he said, “I don’t even support myself. In the war, you never know when you’re going to die. You can be in a vehicle and a bomb will explode.Hadaf malom neest. We die for no reason.Jangee brodar ba brodar jawoz da dorad. There is no reason to fight against your brother.”
Another soldier from a support unit who enlisted in 2014, the same year that U.S. forces ceased combat operations in Afghanistan, described frustration with attempting to solve what he considered a political problem with military force: “If my leaders want to bring peace, they have to sit and discuss how to bring peace. We are really tired of fighting.” It’s a sentiment that, at least according to some, is shared by the Taliban fighters on the other side of the war.
“After the Americans leave, we will have to work together to build this country,” another soldier said. “We don’t have a choice.”
The Taliban usually announces its spring offensive in April, but it appears to have jumped the gun this year, staging a massive three-dayassaultagainst the largest U.S./Afghan base in Helmand Province earlier this month. Both American and Afghan soldiers who’ve fought in this country will tell you that spring is the most beautiful time of year in Afghanistan—and often the deadliest for those fighting for it.
“I have no idea what will happen,” said a soldier when asked about the upcoming fighting season. “We know every area is getting worse. We’ll see what will happen. Every day it gets worse and worse, not better. I wish for peace, everyone wishes to have peace in this country.”
Afghans across the country are watching the news and speculation from Doha, though few I spoke with expect it to end well. “I think Americans don’t want to make peace in this country,” lamented one soldier. “When I was a child I didn’t know this, but now I know if the Americans wanted to remove the Taliban, they can do it. They could remove them forever.” His voice became stern as he said, “I want to remove them forever, and make peace forever.”
(Photo: STR/AFP/Getty Images)
Nonetheless, the peace talks have given some soldiers a glimpse of hope that this spring may be different. “If the peace process works it will be better, but if not, then nothing will change,” said one young infantryman, a veteran of operations against the Taliban in Kunduz, one of Afghanistan’s most volatile northern provinces.
Some recall the crushingly briefceasefirebetween the Afghan government and the Taliban last year, when Taliban fighters and Afghan government forces mingled in cities across the country for Eid, the end of Ramadan. For some Taliban fighters it was their first time seeing Afghanistan’s major urban cities, and they spoke openly to journalists and civilians of their fierce desire for peace and exhaustion from a lifetime of warfare.
Most of the Afghan soldiers I spoke with were unanimous in their appreciation for America’s investment in Afghanistan, but seemed ready for—or resigned to—America’s departure. “I would like to thank Americans for their help and support to this country,” one soldier said. “They came here and lots of soldiers died and were injured and I feel sorrow for Americans who died here.”
One soldier expressed frustration with the American military approach to Afghanistan, lamenting the fact that much of the military equipment used by U.S. forces in Afghanistan was never shared with Afghan forces. “If they want to build a table, it shouldn’t be made of wood, it should be made of metal so after they leave we could still use it,” the soldier offered as an example, a reference to the number of former U.S. military bases scattered across Afghanistan that are now left to deteriorate without the funding and personnel to maintain them.
Despite the fear of what comes next, most of the soldiers spoke of the future as the true test of the Afghan military, when it will stand alone against the Taliban: “I’m happy for [the Americans] to leave because they did a lot and now it’s time for us to help the country. We can’t wait for someone else to always support us. The Afghan army and police should be able to serve this country.”
© 2024 Grist

Title: Afghanistan’s Next Chapter by Dhruva Jaishankar - Project Syndicate
The country is on the cusp of another transition, and the defining features of the new phase remain to be seen. In assessing the future, it will be important to reflect upon the recent past, in order to break the cycle of unlearned lessons that have brought Afghanistan and its interlocutors to this point.
NEW DELHI – The recent geopolitical history of Afghanistan can be divided into five phases. But now it is at the cusp of another transition, and the defining features of the new phase remain to be seen.
During the first phase, from 1974 to 1979, Pakistan began to give refuge and training to Islamists who could be deployed against Mohammed Daoud Khan’s government. Then, from 1979 to 1989, Pakistan, the United States, and Saudi Arabia financed, trained, and equipped themujahideenwho fought against Soviet troops. From 1989 to 1996, Afghanistan was in transition as regional warlords gained power, closed in on Kabul, and overthrew President Mohammad Najibullah. From 1996 to 2001, the Taliban government ushered in a period of wanton savagery and – with the exceptions of Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates – diplomatic isolation.
The fifth phase began in 2001, following the 9/11 attacks. Since then, the US has been embroiled in a war supporting a patchwork Afghan government against a resurgent Pakistan-backed Taliban. The sixth phase raises two questions: Did the US lose the war in Afghanistan and, if so, why?
The answer to the first question is both yes and no. The US has failed to eliminate the Taliban from Afghanistan and entirely rule out the possibility of the country again becoming a haven for terrorists. The ongoing peace talks with the Taliban and the impending reduction of the US military presence in the country are a clear recognition of this. The American public is war-weary and President Donald Trump is keen to declare an end to the longest international conflict in US history before the 2020 presidential election.
At the same time, the US achieved many of its initial core objectives. The Taliban was expelled from Kabul and, despite the current peace talks, its uncontested return remains doubtful. Osama bin Laden was killed in neighboring Pakistan, Taliban leader Mullah Omar died in hiding, and his successor, Mullah Akhtar Mansour, was killed by a US drone strike in Pakistan in 2016. A semblance of a functioning state – including a national government and a military – is now a reality, however flawed. And Pakistan remains under pressure to clean up its act.
But, overall, things did not go according to plan for the US, for four main reasons. First, and most obviously, it made political mistakes, born largely of ignorance and hubris, although often apparent only in hindsight. After 2001, the US imposed on Afghanistan a presidential-style government with inadequate checks and balances. After 2003, policymakers became distracted by the initially more intense conflict in Iraq and withdrew resources and attention from Afghanistan. Moreover, they paid insufficient attention in the early years to building up the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF). In addition, democratization efforts were mostly top-down rather than bottom-up, and elections often were scheduled before the appropriate political institutions were in place.
Watch our Climate Week NYC 2024 event now to hear speakers from across the globe – including Mia Amor Mottley, Prime Minister of Barbados; Gabriel Boric, President of Chile; Jiwoh Abdulai, Minister of Environment and Climate Change of Sierra Leone; and Maisa Rojas Corradi, Minister of the Environment of Chile – discuss climate leadership, development finance, and more.
Watch Now
The second set of mistakes were military in nature. After 2008, US war planners believed that a counter-insurgency approach would work. But a “surge” of the kind that initially reduced violence in Iraq failed in Afghanistan for a number of reasons.
For starters, the US was unable to co-opt key adversaries, as it had done with Sunni militias in Iraq following the “Anbar Awakening.” Moreover, it had no solution to cross-border havens in Pakistan, from which Taliban forces could plot and launch continued attacks, and it underestimated the governance challenges in Afghanistan, which had much deeper roots than in Iraq and made development and state-building more difficult. Furthermore, when then-US President Barack Obama announced the surge in Afghanistan, he undermined the effort by also setting out a withdrawal timeframe. That was a mistake that even Trump was wise enough to avoid.
The US also failed to learn from past mistakes. Comprehensive US reviews of Afghan policy that produced unpalatable or ineffective recommendations gave way to comprehensive reviews that produced equally unpalatable or ineffective outcomes. In particular, successive US administrations, military commanders, and diplomats believed that buying Pakistan’s tactical cooperation through threats, aid, or military support could prove sustainable. The unwillingness to address Pakistan’s support for terrorism head-on was driven by US concerns – real or inflated – about that country’s nuclear-weapons program. As a result, for years, many US policymakers persuaded themselves that the key to peace in Afghanistan lay in pressuring India to resolve the Jammu and Kashmir dispute and thereby somehow allay Pakistani insecurities.
Finally, the US fell victim to its own propaganda. Consider, for example, the notion of Afghanistan as the “graveyard of empires,” which reflected late-nineteenth-century Britain’s effort to explain its failures in the First Afghan War and the emergence of Afghanistan as a buffer zone between the British and Russian empires. It was later propagated by the US, Pakistan, and others in the 1980s and went hand in hand with support for the anti-Soviet Afghanmujahideen. But the reality is that Afghanistan (or parts of it) had at various points been part of the Kushan, Hellenistic, Persian, Mughal, and Sikh empires, and was at the center of the Ghaznivid and Durrani empires.
Given its location at the crossroads of Asia, Afghanistan will remain of interest to Iran, Russia, China, Pakistan, and India. And as long as terrorist groups can train and operate internationally from Afghanistan and Pakistan, the US and Europe will also have a continued interest in the country’s future. In assessing that future, it will be important to reflect upon the recent past, in order to break the cycle of unlearned lessons that have brought Afghanistan and its interlocutors to this point.
Watch our Climate Week NYC 2024 event now to hear speakers from across the globe – including Mia Amor Mottley, Prime Minister of Barbados; Gabriel Boric, President of Chile; Jiwoh Abdulai, Minister of Environment and Climate Change of Sierra Leone; and Maisa Rojas Corradi, Minister of the Environment of Chile – discuss climate leadership, development finance, and more.
Watch Now
Sep 13, 2024Jayati Ghosh
Sep 16, 2024Joseph E. Stiglitz, et al.
Sep 17, 2024Anders Fogh Rasmussen&Andriy Yermak
Sep 11, 2024Rana Hendy&Lobna Shaheen
Sep 13, 2024Yi Fuxian
Writing for PS since20191Commentary
Dhruva Jaishankar is a fellow in Foreign Policy Studies at Brookings India in New Delhi and the Brookings Institution in Washington, DC.
Before posting a comment, please confirm your account. To receive another confirmation email, please clickhere.
Dhruva Jaishankar highlights Afghanistan’s  history in five phases since the 1973 coup that ousted King  Zahir Shaha. For the moment the country is at a point of transition. Entering the sixth phase, two questions emerge: “Did the US lose the war in Afghanistan and, if so, why?” The author says, “in assessing the future, it will be important to reflect upon the recent past, in order to break the cycle of unlearned lessons that have brought Afghanistan and its interlocutors to this point.”Afghanistan has suffered from such chronic instability during its modern history that its economy and infrastructure are in ruins. More than a million people have died and millions fled the country.  The 1979 Soviet invasion to prop up a communist regime led to an insurgency by US- and Pakistan-backed mujahideen. The 1989 withdrawal of Soviet troops and the fall of the regime triggered a devastating civil war.The Taliban, who imposed strict Islamic rule, were ousted by the US in 2001, following the 9/11 attacks, with Nato-led troops maintaining security. The internationally-recognised government set up after  the adoption of a new constitution in 2004 has struggled to extend its authority beyond the capital and to forge national unity. The formal end of combat mission in December 2014 was followed by an upsurge in Taliban attacks.Since then the US has been fighting a war that it can not win, but can not afford to lose. Resenting the blood and treasure spent on the longest war in their history, Americans are war-weary. The US has failed to defeat the Taliban and Afghanistan could once again become “a haven for terrorists.” Trump has pushed for  peace talks with the Taliban and a reduction of the US troops before  the 2020 election, which he hopes to win again.The author points out four reasons why in Afghanistan “things did not go according to plan for the US.” The political mistakes were “born largely of ignorance and hubris,” like imposing a “presidential-style government with inadequate checks and balances” on a multi-ethnic and tribal society. The 2003 Iraq war had sapped much strength and resources, while the Afghan security forces were neglected. Democratisation efforts were mostly “top-down”  rather than bottom up etc.The “military mistakes” were a result of misjudgement. While counter-insurgency approach worked in Iraq, it failed in Afghanistan. The US did not “co-opt key adversaries,” and it had not dealt decisively with Pakistan, that has backed and harboured the Taliban and other insurgent groups. It was an erroneous belief that “buying Pakistan’s tactical cooperation through threats, aid, or military support could prove sustainable.”The author says  “pressuring India to resolve the Jammu and Kashmir dispute” did not “allay Pakistani insecurities” and encourage Islamabad to help secure peace in Afghanistan. And Pakistan has little appetite  “to clean up its act.” The gains the author mentions are in jeopardy. Kabul, the capital could once again fall into Taliban hands.  This “semblance of a functioning state – including a national government and a military” – may be a “reality, however flawed,” but not for long.Given Afghanistan’s geostrategic location, “it will remain of interest to Iran, Russia, China, Pakistan, and India. And as long as terrorist groups can train and operate internationally from Afghanistan and Pakistan, the US and Europe will also have a continued interest in the country’s future.”What worries many Afghans is that after 17-years overshadowed by war and a heavy international presence they  now face an uncertain future and the possibility of stark change. No one knows what form a new government may take or how much control the Taliban might have under any deal. The prospect of peace with the hardline Islamists brings a daunting mix of hope and fear. Afghans are powerless vis-à-vis the political development in their country.
It appears that you have not yet updated your first and last name. If you would like to update your name, please do sohere.
After posting your comment, you’ll have a ten-minute window to make any edits. Please note that we moderate comments to ensure the conversation remains topically relevant. We appreciate well-informed comments and welcome your criticism and insight. Please be civil and avoid name-calling and ad hominem remarks.

Your name
Your email
Friend's name
Friend's email
Message

First Name
Last Name
Email
Please provide more details about your request

We hope you're enjoying our PS content

Subscribe
To have unlimited access to our content including in-depth commentaries, book reviews, exclusive interviews, PS OnPoint and PS The Big Picture, please subscribe
The world has a unique opportunity to harness artificial intelligence to achieve the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, drive scientific breakthroughs, and fuel economic growth. But to realize this potential, the international community must foster a more inclusive and equitable AI ecosystem.
Support Project Syndicate
SubscribeUpgradeDonateGet our weekly newsletterMake your inbox smarter.Select Newsletters

Please log in or register to continue. Registration is free and requires only your email address.
Emailrequired
PasswordrequiredRemember me?
Please enter your email address and click on the reset-password button. If your email exists in our system, we'll send you an email with a link to reset your password. Please note that the link will expire twenty-four hours after the email is sent. If you can't find this email, please check your spam folder.

Reset PasswordCancel
Emailrequired
By proceeding, you are agreeing to ourTerms and Conditions.



Sign in with
Facebook
Google
Microsoft
Twitter
Your Institution

To receive email updates regarding this {entity_type}, please enter your email below.

If you are not already registered, this will create a PS account for you. You should receive an activation email shortly.

Title: MSN


Title: China presses Afghanistan-Pakistan rapprochement – DW – 12/26/2017
The foreign ministers of China, Afghanistan and Pakistan have held their first tri-lateral talks. They called for the inclusion of the Taliban in talks seeking to restore peace to Afghanistan.
China has called on Afghanistan and Pakistan to mend strained ties and boost security cooperation, as Beijing expands its diplomatic and economic footprint in the region.
Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi hosted Afghanistan's acting Foreign Minister Salahuddin Rabbani and Pakistan's Foreign Minister Khawaja Asif for the countries' first tri-lateral meeting in Beijing on Tuesday.
In a joint statement, the three ministers called for a "broad-based and inclusive peace and reconciliation process, which is 'Afghan-led, Afghan-owned'" to end violence in Afghanistan.
They also called on the "Taliban to join the peace process at an early date."
Tensions between Afghanistan and Pakistan have been mounting as Afghans and the United States accuse Pakistan of directly and indirectly supporting the Taliban and another insurgent group, the Haqqani network. Pakistan denies the accusations.
Read more:What is Pakistan's militancy issue all about?
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
The three ministers agreed to strengthen counter-terrorism cooperation and not allow terrorist organizations to use their territory against another country.
China's growing interest
The diplomatic and security talks reflect China's rising influence in Afghanistan and Pakistan. In June, theChinese foreign minister visited both Pakistan and Afghanistanto press for better cooperation.
Previous talks between China, Afghanistan, Pakistan and the United States have failed to address security issues and get the Taliban to the negotiating table after Pakistan hosted talks in July 2015 between Kabul and the militants.
Talibanrepresentatives refuse to talk to the Afghan government but have been to China several times. China is also pouring billions of dollars of investment into Pakistan, raising hopes that it can influence Islamabad.
China has a security interest in stability in Afghanistan and Pakistan because it shares a border with both countries in its western Xinjiang province. Beijing is worried about separatism and extremism among Xinjiang's Muslim and ethnic Uighur population.
Read more:Economic corridor - CPEC could turn Pakistan into China's 'client state'
Xinjiang's 'Belt and Road' tie-in
The western province is a key part of the "Belt and Road Initiative" to develop a modern-day trade network linking China to Central and South Asia, Europe and beyond.
Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi said his government would "fully leverage" Xinjiang as a base for economic cooperation with the bordering countries.
China and Pakistan said they would look at including Afghanistan in a nearly $60 billion (€50 billion) "economic corridor" under development as part of the Belt and Road Initiative.
The China-Pakistan Economic Corridor includes massive investments in roads, railways, ports and infrastructure.
For China, maintaining security and stability along the expensive economic corridor is a key concern as thousands of Chinese contractors pour into the region.
cw/msh (AFP, AP, dpa)


Title: No title found


Title: 
Key Haqqani network commander arrested in E. Afghanistan - Xinhua | English.news.cn

JALALABAD, Afghanistan, March 8 (Xinhua) -- Police have arrested key Haqqani network's commander Mullah Mirwais, following a search operation in Afghanistan's eastern province of Nangarhar, the provincial government said in a statement on Friday.
"Units of Special Police Force launched a search operation late on Thursday, resulting in the arrest of Mullah Mirwais known as Kamran who leads a 40-member terrorist group in Jalalabad city, the capital of Nangarhar provincial," the statement said.
The Haqqani network has been regarded as the military wing of the Taliban group operating in east and southeast Afghanistan and the capital city of Kabul. They often conducts deadly suicide attacks on government interests.
Mullah Mirwais was involved in numerous cases of subversive activities including suicide attacks, murders and kidnappings in various parts of the province, the statement added.
No comment has been made yet from the militant group.
Xi stresses perseverance in fight against poverty
Xi stresses strategic resolve in enhancing building of ecological civilization
Chinese state councilor, FM meets press on foreign policy
Deputies to 13th NPC receive interview in Beijing
Nature full of vigor, vitality on day of "Jingzhe"
Spring scenery of southwest China's Guizhou
Plum blossoms in east China's Shangdong
Aerial view of "Shidaguai" highway in Enshi, C China's Hubei

Title: No title found


Title: The Afghan Game: India must support the Afghan government and coordinate with countries like Iran
Interested in blogging for timesofindia.com? We will be happy to have you on board as a blogger, if you have the knack for writing. Just drop in a mail attoiblogs@timesinternet.inwith a brief bio and we will get in touch with you.
I am a Delhi-based journalist working for the Edit Page of The Times of India.
Afghanistan has recalled its ambassador from Pakistan over reported remarks by Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan suggesting that Kabul should set up an interim government. Imran apparently told Pakistani journalists that the current Afghan government was a hurdle to the ongoing peace process between the US and the Taliban as the latter refuses to talk to the regime in Kabul. Although, Pakistan has now said that Imran’s statement was taken out of context, it was certainly more than a slip of the tongue on the Pakistani premier’s part.
It’s clear that Pakistan sees the ongoing talks between the US and the Taliban as an opportunity to reassert its influence in Afghanistan. For, Pakistan’s military-ISI deep state still retains influence over the Taliban leadership. Recall that Sirajuddin Haqqani of the Haqqani network is the current deputy head of the Taliban. Therefore, if the US pulls out of Afghanistan and the Taliban gains a foothold in a future Afghan government, then Pakistan will be back in the driver’s seat in Afghanistan. After all, Pakistan’s deep state continues to see Afghanistan as its strategic depth, especially vis-à-vis India. And Imran’s comment regarding an interim set-up in Kabul exemplifies Pakistan’s desire to move things along in its favour.
Given this scenario, India’s approach to Afghanistan needs to be based on two principles. First, it should support the Afghan government as the lead in peace talks with the Taliban. In other words, the Afghan government should not be bypassed in arriving at any final peace deal. The Taliban sees the Afghan government as illegitimate and is trying to do a deal just with the US. The group is banking on the impatience of the Donald Trump administration to quickly make a deal and get out of Afghanistan. But this approach should be categorically rejected by all stakeholders in Afghanistan. The Taliban cannot be allowed to wholly have their way in this process. There can be no going back to pre-2001 years. Plus, Pakistan too is pushing for such an outcome. But a return to the old Pakistan-Taliban stratagem would be detrimental to regional security and Afghanistan’s development.
Second, India must support a multi-stakeholder approach to the Afghan peace process. This means coordinating with all regional stakeholders in Afghanistan, particularly Iran. The latter has expressed its willingness to use its influence in Afghanistan for India’s benefit. And I don’t see why New Delhi shouldn’t take up Tehran’s offer. Both countries have interests in Afghanistan and both countries are plagued by terrorism emanating out of Pakistan.
In fact, after the US leaves Afghanistan, only a genuine multi-stakeholder approach can stabilise Afghanistan and prevent the Pakistan-Taliban duopoly from calling all the shots in the future Afghan set-up. Thus, the Great Game for Afghanistan has already begun. India must stay sharp.



Views expressed above are the author's own.
What Rahul isn’t saying
Delhi CM’s statement highlights loyalty dilemma in Indian parties
Rise above biases to a higher way of thinking
Bail & more
Onam has now become a universal festival
A note of enlightenment to enrich your thoughts
Adulteration central
There is no value in remembering god in old age
Peaceful conflict resolution is the way forward
18% plus more
Interested in blogging for timesofindia.com? We will be happy to have you on board as a blogger, if you have the knack for writing. Just drop in a mail attoiblogs@timesinternet.inwith a brief bio and we will get in touch with you.
TOI Edit Page,Voices
Erratica,TOI Edit Page,Tracking Indian Communities
Juggle-Bandhi,TOI Edit Page
TOI Edit Page
Copyright © 2024 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. For reprint rights: Times Syndication Service