Title: At Least 32 Killed in 113 Attacks Across Afghanistan on Election Day - Reports
Sputnik News
23:24 28.09.2019
MOSCOW (Sputnik) - At least 32 people were reportedly killed and 123 more injured in 113 attacks across Afghanistan on the day of the presidential election. According to the Pajhwok news agency, the Taliban Islamist movement claimed responsibility for at least 64 attacks.
Afghan citizens voted on Saturday to elect the country's president in an election that saw around 9.5 million people registered for casting their ballots.
The Taliban said earlier on Saturday that the group had blocked access to polling places in some provinces, preventing local residents from voting.
Earlier in the day, at least 2 people were killed and 35 more injured in the attack at a polling venue in the northern Afghan city of Kunduz. The attacker reportedly placed explosives on a bicycle and detonated it near the polling centre.
The Taliban, which repeatedly threatened earlier to disrupt the Afghan presidential voting, also launched an attack on the city of Kunduz, which significantly weakened after the voting had come to an end. The unstable situation in the city urged many voters to refrain from casting ballots.
Overall, Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid reportedly claimed on Saturday that the attacks included the country's capital of Kabul, as well as provinces of Kunar, Paktia, Parwan, Maidan Wardak, Ghazni, Laghman, Paktika, Khost, Logar, Balkh, Kapisa, Jowzjan, Bamyan, Nangarhar, Badakhshan, Kunduz, Takhar, Nuristan, Helmand, Herat, Kandahar, Farah, Badghis, Faryab, Daikundi, Zabul and Nimroz.
Meanwhile, the Afghan presidential election has ended and the Independent Election Commission (IEC) has already started to count the votes.
The international community has welcomed the presidential election in Afghanistan, calling the vote transparent and credible. Special Representative of the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) Tadamichi Yamamoto, who went to the polling places, praised the Afghan citizens' support for democracy.
At the same time, NATO's civilian representative for Afghanistan, Nicholas Kay, said he hoped that the presidential election would be held in complete security and condemned the Taliban Islamist movement's attacks, aimed at undermining the voting.
Saturday marks Afghanistan's fourth presidential election since a US-led coalition ousted the Taliban from power in 2001. The election comes amid heavy fighting between national security forces and the Taliban. Earlier in the month, US-Taliban long lasting peace negotiations collapsed when Washington withdrew in response to a Taliban attack that killed a US soldier.
Afghanistan has long been suffering from an unstable security situation. The government has been fighting the Taliban for almost two decades, and the Daesh terrorist group, which has been operating in Afghanistan since 2015.
*Taliban, Daesh (ISIS, ISIL, IS, Islamic State) are terrorist groups banned in Russia and many other countries.

© Sputnik



Title: US, Taliban determined to resume talks, says Russian envoy -  World - TASS
MOSCOW, September 30. /TASS/. The United States and the Taliban are determined to resume talks, which is a crucial thing, Russian Special Presidential Envoy for Afghanistan Zamir Kabulov told reporters on Monday.
According to him, as of now, Moscow doesn’t have any information about the date of the next round of talks between the US and the Taliban movement (outlawed in Russia). "The US authorities have openly shared their assessments and views with us. The most important thing is that the Americans and the Taliban are determined to resume talks," he said in response to a TASS question.
"Now, we need to bring them together in a friendly manner," the Russian presidential envoy added.
Over the past year, the United States and members of the Taliban movement held eight rounds of talks, discussing a ceasefire agreement, the withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan, intra-Afghan dialogue and ways to make sure that Afghanistan won’t turn into a stronghold of international terrorism. The parties reached an agreement on the timing of US troop withdrawal at a meeting on August 24.
On September 2, US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad presented a draft peace agreement between the Washington administration and the Taliban to Afghan President Ashraf Ghani. However, following a terrorist attack in Kabul claimed by the Taliban, US President Donald Trump announced that he had cancelled meetings with major Taliban leaders and Ghani and called off peace negotiations.
Moscow has never cut off contacts with the Taliban, the Russian special presidential envoy for Afghanistan told reporters. "We have never cut off contacts [with the Taliban]. I am constantly in touch with them," he said.
Moscow will recognize the results of the recent presidential election in Afghanistan if its fairness and transparency are confirmed, Russia's envoy for Afghanistan Zamir Kabulov stated on Monday.
"We will recognize the election’s outcome but not any outcome. If there is an official confirmation that despite a low voter turnout, the election was close to what we call a fair and transparent vote, we will recognize it," he said. "At the end of the day, it’s not our recognition that matters. The important thing is that the Afghan people should recognize the winner," Kabulov added.
On Saturday, Afghanistan held a presidential election, the fourth one following the collapse of the Taliban regime in 2001. The electoral process took place amid threats from extremists. The Taliban movement (outlawed in Russia) had announced plans to disrupt the election and called on Afghan voters to boycott the vote.
The preliminary outcome of the Afghan presidential election will be announced on October 17 at the earliest, while the final results are expected on November 7. If necessary, a run-off election will be held on November 23.

Title: At Least 32 Killed in 113 Attacks Across Afghanistan on Election Day, Taliban Claimed Responsibility
Accidents,Afghanistan,SecuritySeptember 29, 2019

Ariana News Agency-
The Taliban said earlier on Saturday that the group had blocked access to polling places in some provinces, preventing local residents from voting.
Earlier in the day, at least 2 people were killed and 35 more injured in the attack at a polling venue in the northern Afghan city of Kunduz. The attacker reportedly placed explosives on a bicycle and detonated it near the polling centre.
The Taliban, which repeatedly threatened earlier to disrupt the Afghan presidential voting, also launched an attack on the city of Kunduz, which significantly weakened after the voting had come to an end. The unstable situation in the city urged many voters to refrain from casting ballots.
Overall, Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid reportedly claimed on Saturday that the attacks included the country’s capital of Kabul, as well as provinces of Kunar, Paktia, Parwan, Maidan Wardak, Ghazni, Laghman, Paktika, Khost, Logar, Balkh, Kapisa, Jowzjan, Bamyan, Nangarhar, Badakhshan, Kunduz, Takhar, Nuristan, Helmand, Herat, Kandahar, Farah, Badghis, Faryab, Daikundi, Zabul and Nimroz.
Meanwhile, the Afghan presidential election has ended and the Independent Election Commission (IEC) has already started to count the votes.
The international community has welcomed the presidential election in Afghanistan, calling the vote transparent and credible. Special Representative of the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) Tadamichi Yamamoto, who went to the polling places, praised the Afghan citizens’ support for democracy.
At the same time, NATO’s civilian representative for Afghanistan, Nicholas Kay, said he hoped that the presidential election would be held in complete security and condemned the Taliban Islamist movement’s attacks, aimed at undermining the voting.
Saturday marks Afghanistan’s fourth presidential election since a US-led coalition ousted the Taliban from power in 2001. The election comes amid heavy fighting between national security forces and the Taliban. Earlier in the month, US-Taliban long lasting peace negotiations collapsed when Washington withdrew in response to a Taliban attack that killed a US soldier.
Afghanistan has long been suffering from an unstable security situation. The government has been fighting the Taliban for almost two decades, and the Daesh terrorist group, which has been operating in Afghanistan since 2015.
Δ
Copyright© Ariana News Agency, All Rights Reserved

Title: Afghan election sees just one in five voters cast ballot – DW – 09/29/2019
Afghanistan's presidential election turnout is unofficially estimated at just over 2 million voters, an election commission official announced. The first round took place amid deadly violence causing multiple casualties.
Only about one in five registered voters cast their ballot inthe Afghan presidential election on Saturday, according to an Afghan election commission official who requested anonymity.
The unofficial voter turnout estimate of just over 2 million people or about 20% of registered voters solidifies fears that a low participation rate could mar the vote.
Read more:Opinion: Afghan politicians must honor voter courage
The election will decide whether President Ashraf Ghani will win a second five-year term.
Despite tight security,Taliban insurgents unleashed a string of attackson polling centers across the war-ravaged country.
Attacks despite tight security
More than 9.6 million Afghans in the country — with an estimated population of 35 million — had registered for the election, according to the Afghan Independent Election Commission (IEC). About a third of those registered are women.
An initial tally released early Sunday by the IEC showed that with data from slightly more than half the stations, just under 1.1 million people had voted.
If that turnout trend holds, it would represent a participation level of less than 25% — lower than any of Afghanistan's three previous presidential elections.
Read more:Why did President Donald Trump call off Taliban talks?
Authorities heralded Saturday's election as a success because the Taliban were unable to pull off a large-scale attack resulting in high casualty numbers.
But the insurgents managed to conduct a string of bombings at polling stations and launch attacks on Afghan security forces across the country.
According to the Afghanistan Analysts Network, which compiled incidents through various sources, more than 400 attacks had been reported over the course of the election day.
The Taliban claimed to have conducted 531 attacks, while the Interior Ministry said "the enemy" had carried out 68 assaults.
Widespread skepticism
In addition to security threats, turnout was hampered by skepticism about the electoral process.
Previous polls, including the 2014 presidential election, were undermined by widespread allegations of vote-buying, ballot stuffing and fraud.
Read more:Why is the Afghan peace process not moving beyond talks?
Eighteen candidates are registered with the IEC as presidential hopefuls, with the two favorites being current President Ashraf Ghani, and his Chief Executive Abdullah Abdullah.
To win the election outright, a candidate needs 51% of all votes. If no one gets a majority, the top two candidates will face off in a second vote.
The preliminary results should be ready by October 17, nearly three weeks after the election. The final tally is expected to be announced on November 7.
sri/rc (Reuters, AFP)
Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.

Title: 
	Another chance in Afghanistan  - The Hindu

To enjoy additional benefits
CONNECT WITH US
Published- September 25, 2019 12:02 am IST
It is perhaps for the best that the U.S.-Taliban talks were called off earlier this month. The Taliban leadership’s proposed visit to Camp David in the United States would have led to a slew of significant geopolitical changes with implications for the region and beyond.
Perhaps the Taliban became far too greedy and impatient, or the U.S. President has pulled out what he thinks is the Trump card to gain a negotiating advantage especially given that the American establishment is not too happy with the deal. There were misgivings about the deal that the chief U.S. negotiator to Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad, was about to ink with the Taliban.
The Taliban, having fought against and displaced the powerful coalition forces over the past 18 years, has the luxury of time on its side, even as it is steadily increasing its political legitimacy within Afghanistan. Recall that this is not the first time U.S.-Taliban talks are breaking down, and every time the Americans have had to come around to negotiating again. Mr. Donald Trump on the other hand may not have the luxury of time. As for the international community, it has grown tired of the Afghan story.
In any case, we are back to another season of heavy fighting in Afghanistan with devastating attacks being mounted by the Taliban far more frequently than before.
What implications does the cancellation of U.S.-Afghan talks have for the volatile South Asian region in general and for India in particular?
The direct fallout of the American pullout from the negotiations is more bloodshed in the country. The gloves are now off (not that the Taliban was greatly restrained earlier) and the Taliban has already started carrying out major attacks with the American troops fighting back. However, the current dispensation in Afghanistan, led by President Ashraf Ghani, might not be too displeased with the outcome. The September 28 elections are likely to go ahead, and Mr. Ghani has a chance to continue as President without having to share power with the Taliban — a prospect Kabul has been uneasy about for a long time — to the extent that he actively discouraged all talks with the Taliban that did not involve Kabul. The Ghani government will also be pleased with the fact that U.S. troops are likely to continue in the country, for if left alone the government will not survive long.
The larger question that should concern the Afghan people is whether the Taliban is a changed lot or not. The Taliban has been making direct and indirect assertations about how they are a much evolved group on the question of girls’ education, treatment of women and minorities, among others. But these are claims at best and that is precisely why a deal with the Taliban should include commitments on its domestic behaviour.
Even with a properly negotiated deal, the ascent of the Taliban in Afghanistan would have meant a certain amount of regional uncertainty and geopolitical recalibration. Pakistan, for instance, has been counting on the return of the Taliban in Afghanistan which it deeply believes gives it strategic depthvis-à-visIndia. Pakistani triumphalism in the context of Afghanistan would have meant pinpricks for India. Now that there is no deal between the Taliban and the U.S., there is likely to be more violence internally within Afghanistan while the external implications would be more or less contained. This calculus might change if and when the Taliban returns to power and foreign troops withdraw.
India’s best bet in Afghanistan would be a negotiated withdrawal of foreign troops from Afghanistan, for this would check the Taliban’s proclivity to engage in trouble- making outside Afghan territory.
A non-negotiated withdrawal of U.S. forces would be the worst-case scenario for India even though that is unlikely to happen. This will mean little check on the Taliban’s behaviour at home and in the neighbourhood. It will also enhance Pakistan’s ability to control elements of the Taliban for tactical or strategic anti-Indian uses.
Once the Taliban returns to power in Afghanistan, on its own or as part of a power-sharing arrangement, Indian civilian assets and interests in Afghanistan could come under increased pressure. Today, with the Pakistani side up in arms against India, thanks to New Delhi’s Kashmir decision, the possibility of the Taliban going against Indian interests is much higher, if we were to assume Pakistan to be a major influence on the Taliban’s actions.
Kashmir in many ways will continue to be at the centre of how the emerging geopolitical situation in Afghanistan will impact India. While it is true that a repeat of the late 1980s, when scores of unemployed Afghan fighters turned up in Kashmir at the behest of the Pakistani agencies, is unlikely to happen today for a number of reasons, including due to physical barriers and the amassing of Indian troops on the border, some presence of the Taliban fighters cannot be ruled out. More significantly, however, if a non-negotiated withdrawal of the U.S. forces takes place, it could lead to an open season for Taliban’s regional engagement which could potentially be influenced by Pakistan’s strategic calculations. Even if there is a deal between the U.S. and the Taliban, the fact that the Taliban will have “forced” the Americans out of Afghanistan would provide a shot in the arm to Pakistan, and young Kashmiris who are willing to take up arms against the Indian state. “If a superpower like the U.S. can be pushed out of Afghanistan by the Taliban with help from Pakistan, would it be too difficult to beat India?” is the argument doing the rounds among sections of aggrieved Kashmiri youth.
The manner in which talks between the Taliban and the U.S., were being conducted would have led to negative consequences for New Delhi. To that extent, the breakdown of the Trump-Taliban talks is advantage India. The U.S. and the international community, while picking up the threads of negotiations in the days ahead, will need to ensure that there are enough guarantees built into a deal to disincentivise undesirable external behaviour by the Taliban.
India, on its part, needs to reach out to the Taliban, not to recognise it but to engage with it, in its own national interest. In fact, we are already pretty late in this game, and with the Chinese, Pakistanis and even the Russians converging on the importance of the return of the Taliban to the Afghan scheme of things, one wonders whether India will ever be able to make inroads into the higher echelons of the Taliban. In any case, any outreach from the Indian side would make the government in Kabul led by Mr. Ghani, unhappy. This leaves India in a difficult situation. Hence, such an outreach will also need to be carefully calibrated and discreetly executed.
Happymon Jacob teaches at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, and is the author of ‘Line on Fire: Ceasefire Violations and India-Pakistan Escalation Dynamics’
Published- September 25, 2019 12:02 am IST
Afghanistan/USA/peace negotiations/diplomacy
Copyright© 2024, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
BACK TO TOP
Terms & conditions|Institutional Subscriber
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by ourcommunity guidelinesfor posting your comments.
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.

Title: Afghanistan’s future: The Taliban have to moderate their position
Interested in blogging for timesofindia.com? We will be happy to have you on board as a blogger, if you have the knack for writing. Just drop in a mail attoiblogs@timesinternet.inwith a brief bio and we will get in touch with you.
I am a Delhi-based journalist working for the Edit Page of The Times of India.
Afghanistan is due to hold its presidential elections on September 28, just weeks after peace negotiations between the US and the Taliban were called off by Donald Trump. Needless to say that holding the polls under such circumstances is far from ideal. In fact, there has been a surge of violence since the US-Taliban talks were called off with civilians being caught in the crossfire. There are therefore doubts that the presidential elections can be held in a credible manner. Already more than 2,000 polling centres have been deemed too dangerous to be kept open for voting.
So what do the presidential elections mean for the future of Afghanistan? The most optimistic assessment is that they are a semblance of hope. The brutal reality is that they mean little. It is clear now that the Taliban cannot be militarily defeated.
Thus, any political settlement that brings peace to Afghanistan cannot be achieved by keeping the Taliban on the sidelines. The US-Taliban negotiations had reportedly produced a framework deal whereby the Americans were supposed to vacate three bases and effect a partial withdrawal of troops in exchange for a Taliban promise to sever ties with al-Qaida and not allow Afghanistan to be used for attacks against the US and its allies. But Trump called it off citing a Taliban bombing that killed a US soldier.
But the Taliban have continued their meetings with other international stakeholders. In fact, a Taliban delegation recently met Chinese officials in Beijing to discuss Afghan peace efforts. This came 10 days after a Taliban delegation met Russian officials in Moscow. Under the current circumstances, the best bet for Afghan peace is for all stakeholders to moderate the Taliban. The latter can’t hope to take Afghanistan back to the pre-2001 era. An entire generation of Afghan youths born after the US military intervention is reaching adulthood. They have seen a moderate Afghan society where social norms aren’t as strict as before and women are present in all walks of life, including the Afghan Parliament. This generation will not accept the Taliban’s version of strict shariah.
If the Taliban are to be part of the Afghan mainstream, they have to give up their dream of an Afghan emirate. It is the job of all international stakeholders in Afghanistan to impress upon the Taliban this point.
Clearly, the Taliban too want a deal. Otherwise, they wouldn’t be negotiating. But they can’t throw out the Afghan Constitution or reverse everything that has happened in Afghan society over the last 18 years. Peace sans the Taliban may not be possible. But the Taliban too can’t have their version of Afghanistan. A compromise is the only way forward.


Views expressed above are the author's own.
What Rahul isn’t saying
Delhi CM’s statement highlights loyalty dilemma in Indian parties
Rise above biases to a higher way of thinking
Bail & more
Onam has now become a universal festival
A note of enlightenment to enrich your thoughts
Adulteration central
There is no value in remembering god in old age
Peaceful conflict resolution is the way forward
18% plus more
Interested in blogging for timesofindia.com? We will be happy to have you on board as a blogger, if you have the knack for writing. Just drop in a mail attoiblogs@timesinternet.inwith a brief bio and we will get in touch with you.
TOI Edit Page,Voices
Erratica,TOI Edit Page,Tracking Indian Communities
Juggle-Bandhi,TOI Edit Page
TOI Edit Page
Copyright © 2024 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. For reprint rights: Times Syndication Service

Title: Chinese officials hold talks with Taliban delegation | World News - The Indian Express
Chinese officials have held talks with a Taliban delegation ahead of the presidential elections in Afghanistan on September 28 and US President Donald Trump cancelling a meeting with the militant group in the war torn country.
The Taliban delegation, headed by Mullah Baradar, spoke to China’s special envoy to Afghanistan Deng Xijun on Sunday, the spokesman of the Chinese Foreign Ministry, Geng Shuang, said at a media briefing here on Monday.
Though Geng confirmed the Taliban delegation’s visit on Monday, he gave few details.
The situation in Afghanistan has changed dramatically after US PresidentDonald Trumpcalled off his meeting with Taliban representatives two weeks ago following a deadly attack by insurgent groups in Kabul that killed an American soldier.
The proposed US-Taliban talks and a reported agreement between the two about the withdrawal of American troops raised concern about further violence and political uncertainty in Afghanistan.
Afghanistan is due to hold presidential elections on September 28 in which President Ashraf Ghani is seeking re-election.
The election is already marred by violence. Twenty-six people were killed in a suicide bomb attack on September 17 at a poll rally addressed by Ghani.
On September 7, China attended a trilateral foreign ministers meet with Pakistan and Afghanistan in Islamabad.
China has been in constant communication with all parties involved in the Afghan issue, Geng said.
On Trump’s move to cancel peace talks with Taliban, Geng said, “We hope the US and Taliban will maintain the momentum of talks. We support the internal dialogue and negotiations in Afghanistan and (hope for) national reconciliation and peace and stability at an early date. China is willing to continue to play a constructive role in this regard,” he said.
Earlier, China called on the US to withdraw its troops in an “orderly and responsible way” from the war-torn country to prevent chaos and confusion.
Asked whether China has asked the Taliban to stop attacks on polling stations, Geng said China has consistently supported Afghan-led and Afghan-owned peace and reconciliation.
Sanjeev Kumar, a talented actor, had a passion for food and even rented a house to satisfy his love for non-vegetarian dishes. Fellow actors Shammi Kapoor, Shatrughan Sinha, and Randhir Kapoor would often join him for late-night feasts. Sachin Pilgaonkar revealed this in a recent interview, highlighting Sanjeev's love for food and his bond with his colleagues.



Title: Everyone Wants Share In Afghan Peace Process, But Kabul Wants Peaceful Afghanistan For Afghans
The current episode of US-Taliban Peace Talks, as a part of the broader Afghan conflict resolution efforts, has been going on since last October. It postponed after Trump’s tweets om response to Taliban’s recent suicide attack in Kabul, which killed one US soldier and twelve Afghans.
It has been expected that talks will resume within next few weeks. Trump’s administration appointed Zalmay Khalilzad, as a Special envoy to negotiate with the leadership of Taliban. Khalilzad’s extensive negotiations with Taliban's negotiators in Doha, reached a final stage, without the inclusion of elected Afghan government.
Taliban have agreed that they would ensure prevention of its platform and Afghan soil being used by terrorist networks to pose threats to the US national security.

reuters
In response, the US will withdraw its forces from Afghanistan within a mutually agreed time-frame. Ceasefire and Intra-Afghan dialogue were other demands of Khalilzad, which are still under debate and are not finalized yet.
According to the media reports, the US-Taliban Doha-talks has entered its 9th round, in which the final draft of the agreement has been finalized. As per the agreement, the Taliban will not only cut-down ties with Al-Qaeda, but also cooperate with the US against ISIS in Afghanistan.
Besides core parties of the afghan conflict i.e. the US, Afghan government and Taliban-, the success and endurance of Afghan peace process needs inclusion of regional players as well, though the Afghan government itself is not included in the peace process as of now.
Everyone wants share in Afghan peace process, but Kabul only wants peace for Afghans. Regional stakeholders, Pakistan, Iran, China, India and Russia have shown interest to be involved in the ongoing process in order to preserve their interests in post-settlement Afghanistan.

reuters
Pakistan shares 2640 km British-drawn Durand Line with Afghanistan and shares cultural, linguistic, ethnic similarities as well. Pakistan is considered as one of the main antagonists in the decades long Afghan conflict. Taliban’s movement which emerged from Pakistani Madrassas has enjoyed nonstop support of Pak’s military and intelligence. Pakistan do so to counter Indian influence in Afghanistan, pressurize Afghan government and to prevent long term US presence in Afghanistan.
History is repeating itself as Pakistan is again involved in the Afghan peace process just like The Geneva Peace Agreement of 80s, to provide safe passage to the US for withdrawal of its forces from Afghanistan. Islamabad also wants to have a greater say on the future of Afghanistan.
Although, Islamabad has recognized the post-Taliban Afghan governments, the Pak Army and Inter-Service-Intelligence’s (ISI)– the leading Pakistani intelligence institution has always supported the Taliban while staying an ally of US simultaneously.
Durand Line, shared-water, cross-border tensions, Afghanistan’s close relations with India and shutdown of the transit routes were the main issues between Kabul and Islamabad, which deteriorated bilateral relations.

reuters
Former Pakistani ambassador to Washington- Hussain Haqqani, argues that by getting involved in the Afghan peace process, Pakistan hopes to gain political support from Washington in Kashmir issues and to resume long-stalled financial assistance of the US to Pakistan. Pakistan is actively involved in various formats of the current peace efforts by regional players and also in US-Taliban talks in Doha.
By siding with the Afghan Taliban, Pakistan wishes to isolate and delegitimatize the Ghani government which have strong Indian support. If Pakistan fails to gain enough from the Afghan Peace process, it might sabotage the whole process.
As a historical opposer of Taliban, India has been sidelined in the recent Afghan Peace Process. Delhi is now showing signs that it wants to be an active regional player in Afghan peace efforts. Last year in an Intra-Afghan Peace meet up in Moscow, two ex-Indian diplomats also participated unofficially and only as observers.
Last February, Indian Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated in a press release that India would participate in any format of peace talks regarding the Afghan conflict. The presence of foreign troops provided a secure base for India to increase its investment and influence in Afghanistan, as a result of which India received much appreciation and established a positive image among Afghans. Delhi is concerned about security and impact of its investment, national interests and its influence over the Afghan government in case of US withdrawal from Afghanistan.

reuters
India desires to limit Islamabad massive influence/control over the ongoing peace process. Delhi wants to get a forum to share its perspective regarding their future role in Afghanistan. India has historically adopted partisan policy towards Taliban. According to this policy, India support (both financially and militarily) those groups and individuals, who have anti-Pakistan orientations.
As Taliban are backed by the ISI, Delhi supported Northern Alliance – a non-Pashtun anti-Taliban group- from 1996-2001 and Afghan government after 2001. After a successful peace agreement with the Afghan government in the near future, the Taliban might become an integral part of the Afghan political apparatus. India now seeks to establish ties with Taliban and follow a conciliator policy towards the Taliban.
Like India, Iran also had tense relations with the Taliban regime, and along with India and Russia, Tehran also supported the Northern Alliance against the Taliban. Iran had relations with the Taliban regime (as later belonged to Sunni sect of Islam, had recognition and financial support of Saudi Arabia) to counter Saudi’s influence in Afghanistan.
After 2005, Iran began to support Taliban covertly via the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. Both parties have common interests in Afghanistan to prevent the US from having permanent military bases in Afghanistan. Iran also needs the support of Taliban to fight against Islamic State of Khurasan Province (ISKP)– a faction of Islamic State-, and sabotage the construction of Afghanistan's hydro-management infrastructure.

reuters
Iran is worried about the growing Saudi relations with the Afghan government and the Taliban, that might create another Yemen-like scenario in Afghanistan. After the successful peace deal with the Afghan government, Taliban movement might transition from an insurgent to a political group and might become a part of future Afghan government structure, Iran desire to have cordial relations with them prior to any agreement.
The KSA and the UAE on the other hand are not willing to lag behind in this race. Both states desire to counter the prominent role of Qatar in ongoing Peace process and wishes to expand its coalition against Iran and Qatar. They had offered the Taliban to conduct peace-talks at Jeddah or Abu-Dhabi instead of Doha, but the Taliban rejected it.  Saudi Arabia conditionally gave $6 billion aid to Pakistan to persuade Taliban for peace and negotiations.
China, a powerful neighbor of Afghanistan, strives to ensure the security of Chinese interests, investments, citizens and infrastructures in Afghanistan. Beijing also wishes to ensure that the anti-China terrorists' safe-havens are not opened in Afghanistan.
China facilitates and mediates talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban. Chinese officials often openly support Afghan-led and Afghan-owned intra-Afghan peace talks between the Taliban and the Afghan government. Beijing is an active participant of Moscow Summit, Quadrilateral Coordination Group (QCG), Murree talks and Urumqi meetings regarding Afghan conflict resolution.
As a self-proclaimed responsible power, China believes that stability in neighborhood and surrounding region is necessary for the peaceful rise of China and the success of the Belt and Road Initiative, an inter-regional connectivity project. Beijing is worried about the use of Afghan soil by Uighur insurgents after the returning of the Taliban to power. China seeks guarantee from the Taliban in this regard.

reuters
Russia, another neighbor of Afghanistan, which seeks to play a role in ending Afghan conflict and to undercut the US control over the Afghan peace process. After the four-rounds of QCG in which Russia was not included, Moscow started alternative Afghan Peace Talks initiatives, to challenge the Afghan government and the US administration role regarding the Afghan conflict resolution. The rise of ISKP in Afghanistan jolted Moscow, and they took this development as a conspiracy of the US to contain Russia’s influence in Central Asia.
Russia cooperates with the Taliban to prevent the spread of ISKP across the northern borders of Afghanistan. Afghan government from the last 18 years and especially after 2015, did not maintain a balance in its diplomatic relations with the US and Russia.
Afghan government’s too much dependency on the US limited the role of Moscow in Afghanistan. By its greater engagement in the Afghan Peace Process, Russia seeks to normalize relations with the Taliban and increase its role in the future Afghanistan.
Afghan Peace Process has become a stage of the Great Game for regional players, all of whom wants  to preserve their interests and have a greater role in the future of Afghanistan, but none of them, is interested in welfare of Afghans as they are more focused on their interests rather than the humanitarian side of this brutal conflict. The elected Afghan government has to protect the lives, dignity, unity of Afghans and everything is has achieved last 18 years.
The writer is a Communication Consultant with Afghan Consulting and National Network, writes on Afghanistan’s foreign affairs, Afghan Peace Process, and regional socio-political and economic issues. He tweets via @DaudMohammadi
This views do not reflect the editorial policy of Indiatimes.
Get the NEWS that fits your groove.
Subscribe to Indiatimes Newsletter and get handpicked updates based on your interests!
Connect With Us On

Title: 
		U.S. Inches Closer to a Deal with the Taliban in Afghanistan	
Your Trusted Source for National Security News & Analysis
YouTubeLinkedInXFacebookInstagram


Bottom Line Up Front
America’s longest war, soon approaching its 18th year in Afghanistan, is not over although it seems to be entering a new phase. On September 1, the U.S. Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad discussed the broad contours of atentative dealwith the Taliban. The proposed deal calls for the withdrawal of 5,400 U.S. troops from five unspecified bases in Afghanistan over the course of the next several months. The withdrawal of nearly one-third of the total U.S. military presence is predicated upon the Taliban meeting specific conditions. Notably, the Taliban must cut its ties to al-Qaeda, a group which it has consistently maintained relations with since the late1990s.
The deal comes at a time ofmaximum leveragefor the Taliban, which controls more territory in 2019 than at any point since 2001. As Khalilzad spoke about the proposed agreement, Taliban militants detonated a massive bomb near the Green Village, where many foreign workers and officials reside. According to reports, the blast killed at least 16 people and wounded over 100 others, although casualty counts continue to climb. The Taliban has relentlessly pursued a strategy of ‘fight and talk,’ launching large-scale attacks in several northern provinces whiletalkswith the United States were ongoing in Doha, Qatar. The Taliban, referred to as the Islamic Emirate in the tentative agreement, will likely increase attacks in coming weeks to reinforce the perception that the U.S. military is leaving on unfavorable terms.
Even if the United States and the Taliban can reach an agreement, there is still the hurdle of convening intra-Afghan talks between the militants and the government in Kabul. Few expect these talks to be successful. Despite substantial international support, the Afghan government and security forces have never been able to acquire political legitimacy throughout the country or extend control beyond the capital, Kabul, which remains contested to this day. Several militant groups, including theIslamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP)have been consistently able to conduct spectacular attacks. The Afghan security forces have suffered horrific losses for years, struggling to address corruption, inadequate logistics and an unsustainably high attrition rate.  Another major concern about the deal is the alleged rollback of Afghan women’s rights as critics say it lacks assurances that women will continue to have equal access to education, employment and political representation.
It is unclear how the withdrawal of U.S. forces from several bases will impact security on-the-ground in Afghanistan. Even at its peak deployment, combined troops from the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) and Afghan forces could only make temporary gains against the Taliban on the battlefield. The United States has a history of publicly waffling over whether to keep its troops in Afghanistan for years, stretching across successive administrations. The arguments for maintaining a sizable U.S. military presence in Afghanistan have fallen on deaf ears in the Trump administration despite concerns about long-term stability and a growing danger posed to Afghan civilians. The prospect of a U.S. withdrawal has been met with considerable opposition from some U.S. politicians, including Senator Lindsay Graham. Those who argue that the United States must remain in Afghanistan insist that its military presence is on the verge of success, although what success looks like has never been properly defined.
Related Articles
EXPERT INTERVIEW — Even by the standards of Mideast intrigue and covert operations, what happened Tuesday afternoon in Lebanon was startling: for roughly an hour, beginning[…]More

DEEP DIVE — A small sliver of territory lies at the heart of the desperate international effort to free Hamas’ remaining hostages, and bring at least[…]More

DEEP DIVE — As the war in Gaza rages, ceasefire talks founder, and the world waits for – and worries about – an Iranian retaliation for[…]More

EXPERT INTERVIEWS— In the last-gasp negotiations for a Gaza ceasefire underway in Cairo, the negotiating teams reflect the high stakes of the moment. CIA Director[…]More

SUBSCRIBER+ EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW – With talks on a ceasefire deal for the war in Gaza in what U.S. officials have called an “endgame,” phase and[…]More

BOTTOM LINE UP FRONT — Cipher Brief Experts suggest a range of possible explanations for Iran’s delay in delivering promised retaliation toward Israel after the killing[…]More

Trending

YouTubeLinkedInXFacebookInstagram
For general inquiries please email[email protected]
For general inquiries please email[email protected]YouTubeLinkedInXFacebookInstagram
Search

Title: No title found


Title: Return of ISIS: Taliban fight ‘join ISIS in droves’ - ‘US is concerned’ | World | News | Express.co.uk
The Afghan branch ofISIS, known as Islamic State Khorasan (IS-K), is gaining ground as Taliban hardliners angry about peace negotiations with the US have “joined ISIS in droves”, according to experts. IS-K, formed in 2014 and known for its ruthless violence and gory propaganda videos on social media, is believed to be responsible for a surge in violence of ISIS violence this year. The attacks have raised fears of an ISIS resurgence even though the group was defeated in its Iraqi and Syrian heartlands earlier this year.
The Financial Times reported the expansion of the ISIS affiliate across Afghanistan has led to growing concern the group will create a haven for terrorists to organise violence abroad, recreating the conditions that allowed al-Qaeda to organise the 9/11 attacks on the US.
Afghanistan is seen as an important region to recuperate and plan their next phase of operations.
Jonathan Schroden, a military analyst at research organisation CNA, said: “The US is most concerned about IS-K as potentially the next big thing inside ISIS.”
Another expert said the ISIS affiliate is growing steadily in size, as new recruits are joining IS-K from across the Middle East.

Antonio Giustozzi, war historian and author of The Taliban at War, said: “The ISIS caliphate is gone but it reorganised in Afghanistan after a period of disruption.
“Every month tens of members of the caliphate will reach Afghanistan and Pakistan from the Middle East.”
The war expert said new recruits also come from other jihadist groups in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
He said: “Groups like al-Qaeda were replying on protection afforded by the Taliban, but with the Taliban [having been’ negotiating peace with the US, they have doubts.

We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read ourPrivacy Policy
“Now ISIS seems to be the only credible option to retain some haven in Afghanistan.”
IS-K also appears to be growing in strength, with Kabir Taneja of the Observer Research Foundation in New Dehli saying the recent attacks showcase the group’s “power, arms and money”.
He said: “When ISIS started to claim attacks in Kabul, they showcased their power, arms and money.
“You need a strong ecosystem to conduct attacks in what the Taliban consider their sacred ground.”

ISIS is considered an even greater threat than the Taliban because of its increasingly sophisticated military capabilities and its strategy of targeting civilians, both in Afghanistan and abroad.
It is feared that if the Taliban sign a peace agreement with the US it would lead to increased recruitment for IS-K.
The growing terrorist group are also reported to be holding talks with al-Qaeda.
A senior Balochistan government official told the Financial Times there were reports of meetings between the two groups.

They said: “Al-Qaeda is down but not out. It still poses a significant risk.
“At the very least, they seem to be working towards launching a common front agains the Taliban.”
ISIS are believed to be responsible for at least five attacked on the Taliban in Balochistan, a Pakistan province that borders Afghanistan and Iran, between June and August.
SEARCH
CONNECT WITH US
TODAY'S PAPER
See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
EXPRESS.CO.UK
Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?

Title: A US drone strike meant for ISIS killed 30 pine nut harvesters in Afghanistan | Business Insider India
Parwiz / REUTERSRelatives and residents pray near a coffin during a funeral ceremony of one of the victims after a drone strike, in Khogyani district of Nangarhar province, Afghanistan, September 19, 2019.
Parwiz / REUTERS
Relatives and residents pray near a coffin during a funeral ceremony of one of the victims after a drone strike, in Khogyani district of Nangarhar province, Afghanistan, September 19, 2019.

At least 30 civilians were killed and 40 injured in an air strike conducted by the Afghan security forces, backed by US air support, in eastern Afghanistan, officials said on Thursday.
The attack, on Wednesday night was aimed at destroying a hideout used by ISIS militants, but it accidentally targeted farmers near a field, three government officials told Reuters.
Sohrab Qaderi, a provincial council member in eastern Nangarhar province, said a drone strike killed 30 workers in a pine nut field and at least 40 others were injured.
"The workers had lit a bonfire and were sitting together when a drone targeted them," tribal elder Malik Rahat Gultold Reuters.
Attaullah Khogyani, a spokesman for the governor of Nangarhar, said nine bodies had been recovered from the attack so far. Approximately 150 workers had been harvesting in the pine nut fields, according to Haidar Khan, the owner of the fields. He said some workers were still missing.
Thedefenseministry in Kabul confirmed the strike but refused to share casualty details immediately.
"US forces conducted a drone strike against Da'esh (IS) terrorists in Nangarhar," said Col. Sonny Leggett, a spokesman for Operation Freedom's Sentinel, the US-led operation in Afghanistan. "We are aware of allegations of the death of non-combatants and are working with local officials to determine the facts."
ISIS did not immediately comment on the attacks.
It's unknown how many ISIS militants are currently in Afghanistan, which some experts are concerned will become a launching ground for continued terror attacks. The US military believes there are about 2,000 combatants.
"The US should be very concerned about ISIS using Afghanistan to stage attacks on the West. The conduct of external attacks is core to the very nature of the ISIS organization, and the provinces ISIS creates abroad do adopt this goal," Jennifer Cafarella, research director at the Institute for the Study of War,previously told Insider.
A number of civilians have been killed, both by extremists like ISIS and the Taliban and by US forces, aJuly UNreport showed. It found 3,812 civilian casualties in Afghanistan in the first half of the year alone.
(Reporting for Reuters by Ahmad Sultan in Jalalabad, Abdul Qadir Sediqi, Rupam Jain in Kabul; editing by Toby Chopra)
Advertisement
POPULAR CATEGORIES

Title: US Drone Strike Targeting ISIS Killed Afghan Farmers Instead - Business Insider
At least 30 civilians were killed and 40 injured in an air strike conducted by the Afghan security forces, backed by US air support, in eastern Afghanistan, officials said on Thursday.
The attack, on Wednesday night was aimed at destroying a hideout used by ISIS militants, but it accidentally targeted farmers near a field, three government officials told Reuters.
Sohrab Qaderi, a provincial council member in eastern Nangarhar province, said a drone strike killed 30 workers in a pine nut field and at least 40 others were injured.
"The workers had lit a bonfire and were sitting together when a drone targeted them," tribal elder Malik Rahat Gultold Reuters.
Attaullah Khogyani, a spokesman for the governor of Nangarhar, said nine bodies had been recovered from the attack so far. Approximately 150 workers had been harvesting in the pine nut fields, according to Haidar Khan, the owner of the fields. He said some workers were still missing.
The defense ministry in Kabul confirmed the strike but refused to share casualty details immediately.
"US forces conducted a drone strike against Da'esh (IS) terrorists in Nangarhar," said Col. Sonny Leggett, a spokesman for Operation Freedom's Sentinel, the US-led operation in Afghanistan. "We are aware of allegations of the death of non-combatants and are working with local officials to determine the facts."
ISIS did not immediately comment on the attacks.
It's unknown how many ISIS militants are currently in Afghanistan, which some experts are concerned will become a launching ground for continued terror attacks. The US military believes there are about 2,000 combatants.
"The US should be very concerned about ISIS using Afghanistan to stage attacks on the West. The conduct of external attacks is core to the very nature of the ISIS organization, and the provinces ISIS creates abroad do adopt this goal," Jennifer Cafarella, research director at the Institute for the Study of War,previously told Insider.
A number of civilians have been killed, both by extremists like ISIS and the Taliban and by US forces, aJuly UNreport showed. It found 3,812 civilian casualties in Afghanistan in the first half of the year alone.
(Reporting for Reuters by Ahmad Sultan in Jalalabad, Abdul Qadir Sediqi, Rupam Jain in Kabul; editing by Toby Chopra)
Jump to

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title:  India needs to pitch in for fight against terrorists in Afghanistan: Donald Trump
0
By clicking the button, I accept theTerms of Use of the serviceand itsPrivacy Policy, as well as consent to the processing of personal data.
Don’t have an account?Signup
Powered by :
Follow Us
Countries like India, Iran, Russia and Turkey would have to fight against terrorists in Afghanistan at some point of time, President Donald Trump has said, ruing that the job against the extremists is being done only by the United States some 7,000 miles away. Trump said on Wednesday that other nations currently are making very less efforts against the terrorists in Afghanistan.
"At a certain point Russia, Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, Turkey they are going to have to fight their battles too. We wiped out the caliphate 100 per cent. I did it in record time but at a certain point all of these other countries where ISIS is around they have been decimated by the way, badly decimated," Trump told reporters at the White House while responding to a question on the reemergence of ISIS in Afghanistan.
"All of these countries are going to have to fight them because do we want to stay there for another 19 years - I don't think so. So, at a certain point other countries and that includes Russia and it includes Iran and Turkey and Iraq and Afghanistan and Pakistan and India," he said.
Trump's comments came a day after he indicated that the US forces will not completely withdraw from the warn-torn Afghanistan and America will have "somebody there" to make sure that Taliban does not regain control.
Trump said that the US was fighting the terrorists in Afghanistan despite being 7,000 miles away while India and Pakistan were not doing so even after being next door.
"Look, India is right there. They are not fighting it. We are fighting it. Pakistan is right next door. They are fighting it very little. Very, very little. It's not fair. The United States is 7,000 miles away," Trump said.
Trump said that the US under him has decimated ISIS. "We haven't been hearing much about ISIS. We took the caliphate 100 per cent. When I took it at 98 per cent I said all right, maybe we go home now, let these other countries in. Everyone went crazy. They said do 100 per cent. They said it was going to take a year. It took me a month and they are gone," he said.
Asserting that the caliphate is gone, he said the US is holding thousands of ISIS fighters right now and Europe has to take them.
And if Europe doesn't take them, Trump said, he will have no choice but to release them into the countries from which they came which is Germany and France.
"We beat them. We captured them. We've got thousands of them and now as usual our allies say, no, we don't want them even though they came from France and Germany and other places. So we're going to tell them and we have already told them take these prisoners that we've captured because the United States is not going to put them in Guantanamo for the next 50 years and pay for it," Trump said.
"At a certain point Russia, Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, Turkey they are going to have to fight their battles too. We wiped out the caliphate 100 per cent. I did it in record time but at a certain point all of these other countries where ISIS is around they have been decimated by the way, badly decimated," Trump told reporters at the White House while responding to a question on the reemergence of ISIS in Afghanistan.
"All of these countries are going to have to fight them because do we want to stay there for another 19 years - I don't think so. So, at a certain point other countries and that includes Russia and it includes Iran and Turkey and Iraq and Afghanistan and Pakistan and India," he said.
Trump's comments came a day after he indicated that the US forces will not completely withdraw from the warn-torn Afghanistan and America will have "somebody there" to make sure that Taliban does not regain control.
Trump said that the US was fighting the terrorists in Afghanistan despite being 7,000 miles away while India and Pakistan were not doing so even after being next door.
"Look, India is right there. They are not fighting it. We are fighting it. Pakistan is right next door. They are fighting it very little. Very, very little. It's not fair. The United States is 7,000 miles away," Trump said.
Trump said that the US under him has decimated ISIS. "We haven't been hearing much about ISIS. We took the caliphate 100 per cent. When I took it at 98 per cent I said all right, maybe we go home now, let these other countries in. Everyone went crazy. They said do 100 per cent. They said it was going to take a year. It took me a month and they are gone," he said.
Asserting that the caliphate is gone, he said the US is holding thousands of ISIS fighters right now and Europe has to take them.
And if Europe doesn't take them, Trump said, he will have no choice but to release them into the countries from which they came which is Germany and France.
"We beat them. We captured them. We've got thousands of them and now as usual our allies say, no, we don't want them even though they came from France and Germany and other places. So we're going to tell them and we have already told them take these prisoners that we've captured because the United States is not going to put them in Guantanamo for the next 50 years and pay for it," Trump said.



Subscribe to our Newsletter!


Share this article
If you liked this article share it with your friends.they will thank you later

Title: Drone Strike Kills 30 Civilian Farmers in Afghanistan
ByRyan Bort
In the past10 years, an estimated 16,000 civilians have died inAfghanistan, according to the United Nations.
The United States killed 30 more Wednesday when a drone strike intended for an Islamic State stronghold instead struck a group of farmers resting after a day picking pine nuts.
In addition to the 30 who were killed, 40 were injured. “The workers had lit a bonfire and were sitting together when a drone targeted them,” tribal elder Malik Rahat Gultold Reuters, which first reported the news. Others said 150-200 laborers were present, many of them in tents, when the attack occurred in Wazir Tangi in eastern Nangarhar province. Colonel Sonny Leggett, a spokesman for U.S. forces in Afghanistan, confirmed that the strike took place and that the U.S. is “working with local officials to determine the facts.”
According to the U.N., nearly 1,400 civilians died in Afghanistan from January to July of this year as the Islamic State’s presence in the region has intensified.
The errant drone strike on Wednesday is only one example of the many horrific consequences of America’s longest war, which has resulted in thousands and thousands of dead civilians and an fear among the living that they could be next at any moment, even while lying down in a tent after a day of picking pine nuts.

“Such mistakes cannot be justified,” Jalalabad resident Javed Mansur told Reuters after the attack. “American forces must realize [they] will never win the war by killing innocent civilians.”

President Trump has claimed on multiple occasions that ISIS has been defeated, most notably last December when he did so in announcing he would pull all U.S. troops out of Syria, before later agree to a partial withdrawal. “We have beaten them and we have beaten them badly,” Trump said of ISIS at the time.
The following month, then-Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats told Congress that ISIS in fact “very likely will continue to pursue external attacks from Iraq and Syria against regional and Western adversaries, including the United States.” He added that ISIS “has returned to its guerrilla warfare roots while continuing to plot attacks and direct its supporters worldwide.”
Editor’s picksThe 100 Best TV Episodes of All TimeThe 250 Greatest Guitarists of All TimeThe 500 Greatest Albums of All Time25 Most Influential Creators of 2024
Trump responded by lashing out at Coats and the intelligence officials testifying beside him, tweeting that they should “go back to school” while arguing that the situation was under control. “When I became President, ISIS was out of control in Syria & running rampant,” he wrote. “Since then tremendous progress made, especially over last 5 weeks. Caliphate will soon be destroyed, unthinkable two years ago. Negotiating are proceeding well in Afghanistan after 18 years of fighting. Fighting continues but the people of Afghanistan want peace in this never ending war. We will soon see if talks will be successful?”
Talks have not been successful. Though the caliphate has been tamped down in Iraq and Syria,ISIS forces in Afghanistan have gained strength. Trump had been scheduled to talk with Afghan and Taliban officials at Camp David earlier this month to discuss how to bring an end to the now-18-year war, reportedly through a deal that would involve the gradual withdrawal of the 14,000 American troops still in Afghanistan.The deal ultimately fell apart and the meeting never happened.

We want to hear it. Send us a tip using our anonymous form.
Rolling Stone is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2024 Rolling Stone, LLC. All rights reserved.

Title: 
    Afghan security chief warns of "connections" between foreign extremists and the West - CBS News
Watch CBS News
ByCharlie D'Agata
September 13, 2019 / 6:41 PM EDT/ CBS News
Kabul, Afghanistan— A U.S. airstrike killed a major ISIS recruiter in eastern Afghanistan. No other details are known, but this comes as ISIS, al Qaeda and the Taliban are all increasing their attacks in Afghanistan.
The Taliban may have doubled down on their efforts to gain leverage over the U.S. inrecent talks, but Brigadier General Khoshal Sadat told CBS News they paid a heavy price.
"We inflicted a huge amount of casualties, it's been unprecedented. Within a matter of hours, hundreds of them just gone," Sadat said.
The country's top security chief issued a sober warning to Americans.
"We have seen connections, communications between ISIS fighters and some al Qaeda here and Europe and the United States," Sadat said.
Contact between ISIS and al Qaeda operatives in Afghanistan and the U.S. is the very reason why U.S. forces invaded the country in the first place. The mission then and now, is to destroy Osama bin Laden's al Qaeda network. Eighteen years on, that terrorist group is still in Afghanistan.
The Taliban has promised to never again harbor America's enemies, but National Security Advisor Hamdullah Mohib said that's a non-starter.
"In their ranks today there are all kinds of terrorists fighting from all around the world. They have Chechens, Uzbeks, Arabs, Pakistanis, you name it," he said.
Mohib warns those same terrorists responsible for such bloodshed in Afghanistan would extend their reach far from these battlefields in a heartbeat.
Charlie D'Agata is CBS News' senior national security correspondent. He was previously a senior foreign correspondent and has spent more than two decades covering international news for CBS.
© 2019 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright ©2024 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.

Title: US drone strike intended for Isis hideout kills 30 pine nut workers in Afghanistan | Afghanistan | The Guardian
Forty were also injured in the Wednesday attack which struck farmers and labourers who just finished work, Afghan officials say
A US drone strike intended to hit an Islamic State hideout inAfghanistanhas killed at least 30 civilians who were resting after harvesting pine nuts.
Forty people were also injured in the attack on Wednesday night which struck farmers and labourers who had just finished their day’s work at the mountainous Wazir Tangi in eastern Nangarhar province, three Afghan officials told Reuters.
“The workers had lit a bonfire and were sitting together when a drone targeted them,” tribal elder Malik Rahat Gul told Reuters by telephone from Wazir Tangi.
Afghanistan’s defence ministry and a senior US official in Kabul confirmed the drone strike, but did not share details of civilian casualties.
“US forces conducted a drone strike against Da’esh [Isis] terrorists in Nangarhar,” said Col Sonny Leggett, a spokesman for US forces in Afghanistan. “We are aware of allegations of the death of non-combatants and are working with local officials to determine the facts.”
About 14,000 US troops are in Afghanistan, training and advising Afghan security forces and conducting counter-insurgency operations against Isis and the Taliban movement.
Haidar Khan, who owns the pine nut fields, said about 150 workers were there for harvesting, with some still missing as well as the confirmed dead and injured.
A survivor of the drone strike said about 200 labourers were sleeping in five tents pitched near the farm when the attack happened.
“Some of us managed to escape, some were injured but many were killed,” said Juma Gul, a resident of north-eastern Kunar province who had travelled along with labourers to harvest and shell pine nuts this week.
Angry residents of Nangarhar province demanded an apology and monetary compensation from the US government.
“Such mistakes cannot be justified. American forces must realise [they] will never win the war by killing innocent civilians,” said Javed Mansur, who lives in Jalalabad city.
Isis fighters first appeared in Afghanistan in 2014 and have since made inroads in the east and north where they are battling the government, US forces and the Taliban.
Theexact number of Isis fighters is difficult to calculatebecause they frequently switch allegiances, but the US military estimates there are about 2,000.
There has been no let-up in assaults by Taliban and Isis as Afghanistan prepares for a presidential election this month.
In a separate incident, at least 20 people died in a suicide truck bomb attack on Thursday carried out by the Taliban in the southern province of Zabul.
Hundreds of civilians have been killed in fighting across Afghanistan after the collapse of US-Taliban peace talks this month. The Taliban has warned Donald Trump will regret his decision to abruptly call off talks that could have led to a political settlement to end the 18-year-old war.
The United Nations says nearly 4,000 civilians were killed or wounded in the first half of the year. That includeda big increase in casualties inflicted by government and US-led foreign forces.

Title: Afghanistan: Weekly Humanitarian Update (9 - 15 September 2019) - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Northeast: Fighting in Baghlan, Kunduz and Badakhshan
The security situation remained tense in the northeast as armed clashes continued between the Afghanistan National Security Forces (ANSF) and the Taliban in Baghlan and Kunduz. In Kunduz, the Taliban reportedly took control of the district administration centre in Archi district causing displacement to surrounding villages. Access of humanitarian actors to the area has been negotiated and two assessment teams have been deployed to analyse the needs of internally displaced persons (IDPs).
During the past week, conflict continued in Jorm district, Badakhshan province which according to the Government resulted in the displacement of more than 4,200 people to the centre of Jorm district. Also, around 2,800 people were displaced to Rostaq district during recent fighting in Darqad and Yangi Qala districts in Takhar province. Humanitarian organisations will conduct a needs assessment to inform the response.
Last week, around 10,745 IDPs affected by conflict were verified by inter-agency assessment teams in Baghlan, Kunduz, Takhar and Badakhshan provinces as being in need of humanitarian assistance. 5,187 IDPs displaced by conflict received assistance in Baghlan and Takhar province. The main roads reopened last week which will enable aid agencies to deliver food and relief items from Mazar-e-Sharif to Pul-e Khumri and Kunduz city where a large number of IDPs are in need of humanitarian assistance.
North: Clashes in Balkh and Faryab
In the north, clashes between Non-State Armed Groups (NSAGs) and ANSF in Balkh and Faryab provinces continued. During the past week, inter-agency teams verified 1,036 IDPs in Balkh, Jawzjan and Sar-e-Pul, Samangan and Faryab provinces who were previously displaced by the fighting and are in humanitarian need. In Balkh and Faryab provinces, most IDPs were recently displaced, while in Jawzjan, Sar-e-Pul and Samangan provinces, the majority of IDPs were displaced in the last three to six months.
East: Almost 4,000 people received humanitarian assistance
Military operations in Surkh Rod and Achin districts in Nangarhar province and in Sar Kani district in Kunar province continued. 14 joint assessment teams verified 6,111 people who were displaced by conflict on 29 August in Surkh Rod district in Nangarhar and are in need of humanitarian assistance. 3,822 people were reached with food, relief items, and water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) supplies in Nangarhar, Kunar, and Laghman provinces during the last week.
Centre: 1,400 people displaced due to clashes
Between 9 and 11 September, around 1,400 people were displaced from the Deh Afghanan area in Maidan Wardak province due to clashes between NSAGs and the ANSF. While the situation in the Central Highlands is reportedly calm, the Patoo and Kajran districts in Daykundi province, and Kahmard and Shibar districts in Bamyan province are reportedly tense due to NSAG activities.
Some 707 people in Parwan province, who were affected by heavy rainfall and flash floods on 2 September were reached with humanitarian assistance and 259 IDPs were assisted with relief items, WASH and cash on 12 September. Humanitarian partners also identified 1,701 IDPs affected by conflict who will receive assistance in the coming days.
West: Civilians reportedly killed by mines
The security situation in Farah province remained volatile. Last week, an unspecified number of civilians were reportedly killed by landmines planted along the Hirat-Ghor highway. On 12 September, inter-agency assessment teams identified 588 IDPs affected by conflict in Hirat city and Injil district in Hirat province, and in Chaghcharan city in Ghor province who will receive humanitarian assistance in the coming days.
South: 311 schools are closed, new polio case reported
Clashes continued in Uruzgan, Hilmand, Zabul and Kandahar provinces. On 11 September, construction of a new girls’ school began with the help of the UN. Once completed, the school will support education for approximately 1,000 girls. In the south, the academic year starts on September, but 311 schools remain closed in the region, depriving 127,733 students of an education. The closure of schools was mainly due to insecurity, logistical constraints, lack of government capacity and the absence of teachers.
On 11 September, one new polio case was confirmed in Tirinkot district in Uruzgan province. This year, 16 polio cases have been reported with 15 of these cases in the south. Inter-agency assessments were ongoing in Spin Boldak in Kandahar, Zaranj in Nimroz and Qalat in Zabul provinces and more than 600 IDPs were identified as being in need of humanitarian assistance during the last week.
Coordination
Humanitarian Needs Overview (HNO)/Humanitarian Response Plan (HRP) preparations are well underway. Preliminary data for the REACH-coordinated Whole of Afghanistan Assessment was presented to the Inter Cluster Coordination Team last week. A workshop is planned in the coming days to finalise parameters for the 2020 HNO.
For further information, please contact:Ian Ridley, Head of Office, OCHA Afghanistan, ridleyi@un.orgNoroarisoa Rakotomalala, Deputy Head of Office, OCHA Afghanistan, rakotomalala@un.orgLinda Tom, Public Information Officer, OCHA Afghanistan, toml@un.org, Cell: +93 79300 11 10
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Afghanistan: Weekly Humanitarian Update (26 August – 1 September 2019) - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan+ 2 more
KEY FIGURES
PEOPLE ASSISTED (PAST WEEK)
4,900 People received assistance
IDPS IN 2019 (AS OF 1 SEP)
230,000 People newly displaced
197,500 Received assistance
RETURNEES IN 2019 (AS OF 24 AUG)
292,200 Returnees from Iran
17,800 Returnees from Pakistan
10,400 Returnees from other countries
HRP REQUIREMENTS & FUNDING
612M Requested (US$)
249M 41% funded (US$)
AFGHANISTAN HUMANITARIAN FUND
28M Contributions (US$)
6M Pledges (US$)
26.5M Expenditure
3.86M Programmable amount*
* Including carry over before HFU cost-plan 2020
Northeast: At least 60 civilian casualties
On 31 August, heavy fighting broke out between the Taliban and Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) in Kunduz city. People stayed in their homes until the fighting subsided at the end of the day. According to the Health Cluster, at least five people were killed and 56 others were injured. Phone and power services were interrupted during the fighting but were partly restored by the next day. A number of civilians reportedly moved to safer locations within the city. In Kunduz city, some humanitarian partners have since resumed operations and started rapid assessments within the city to evaluate humanitarian needs.
On 1 September, new clashes were also reported between the Taliban and ANSF in Pul-e Khumri city, Baghlan province. Casualties have been reported, but numbers are still unconfirmed. As of 2 September, fighting had reportedly reduced in some parts of the city, but some areas remained volatile, causing some displacement to nearby villages. Due to the intermittent disruption of telecommunications and road movements, an assessment of humanitarian impact, including the number of displaced, remains difficult.
Between 24 and 28 August, 4,025 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) displaced by conflict in Eshkmesh district, Takhar province into Kunduz City received a range of life-saving assistance. Across the region, an additional 2,940 vulnerable IDPs affected by conflict were identified as in need of aid.
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Afghanistan | ReliefWeb Response
Afghanistan
Highlights

Humanitarian partners are ramping up response efforts following heavy windstorms, severe rainfall and flash floods that struck multiple districts of Badakhshan, Baghlan, Kunar, Laghman, Nangarhar and Nuristan provinces in eastern and northeastern Afghanistan on 15 and…
Afghanistan is facing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis with a very real risk of systemic collapse and human catastrophe.
PEOPLE IN NEED:29.2M |PLANNED REACH:17.3MINTER-SECTOR REACH:1.9M |OVERALL REACHED:12.1MREQUIREMENTS (US$):$3.06B |RECEIVED (US$):735.2M
This multi-sectoral Response Plan requires approximately $93.6 million to support 114,000 earthquake-affected people in Herat.
Individuals fled their homes dueto conflict. Displacement affects all people differently.
Afghanistan is prone to earthquakes, flooding, drought, landslides and avalanches.
Humanitarian Operational Presence and Operational Capacity.
Concise operational document to support the coordination of humanitarian response in Afghanistan.
Visual of key issues and trends related to the Afghanistan humanitarian response.
Afghanistan
Background
In an increasingly complex operating environment, stronger coordination around humanitarian needs assessments is critical to enable effective assessment of multi-dimensional needs; optimise available resources (including use of trained enumerators); reduce the burden on key informants; and…
Afghanistan
Afghanistan is facing the devastating effects of almost forty years of war, increasing poverty and natural disasters, all of which were amplified by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. At the beginning of 2021, almost 17…
Afghanistan
Overview
Due to security concerns and socio-cultural barriers, some female personnel may face challenges when travelling for work or participating in other professional activities. These persistent barriers to full participation in the workforce have resulted in diminished…
Afghanistan
UN announces Transitional Engagement Framework (TEF) for Afghanistan to save lives, sustain services and preserve community systems
Kabul, Geneva, New York, 26 January 2022 – The UN team in Afghanistan has launched its One-UN Transitional Engagement Framework…

Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services



Title: Afghanistan | ReliefWeb Response
Afghanistan
Highlights

Humanitarian partners are ramping up response efforts following heavy windstorms, severe rainfall and flash floods that struck multiple districts of Badakhshan, Baghlan, Kunar, Laghman, Nangarhar and Nuristan provinces in eastern and northeastern Afghanistan on 15 and…
Afghanistan is facing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis with a very real risk of systemic collapse and human catastrophe.
PEOPLE IN NEED:29.2M |PLANNED REACH:17.3MINTER-SECTOR REACH:1.9M |OVERALL REACHED:12.1MREQUIREMENTS (US$):$3.06B |RECEIVED (US$):735.2M
This multi-sectoral Response Plan requires approximately $93.6 million to support 114,000 earthquake-affected people in Herat.
Individuals fled their homes dueto conflict. Displacement affects all people differently.
Afghanistan is prone to earthquakes, flooding, drought, landslides and avalanches.
Humanitarian Operational Presence and Operational Capacity.
Concise operational document to support the coordination of humanitarian response in Afghanistan.
Visual of key issues and trends related to the Afghanistan humanitarian response.
Afghanistan
Background
In an increasingly complex operating environment, stronger coordination around humanitarian needs assessments is critical to enable effective assessment of multi-dimensional needs; optimise available resources (including use of trained enumerators); reduce the burden on key informants; and…
Afghanistan
Afghanistan is facing the devastating effects of almost forty years of war, increasing poverty and natural disasters, all of which were amplified by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. At the beginning of 2021, almost 17…
Afghanistan
Overview
Due to security concerns and socio-cultural barriers, some female personnel may face challenges when travelling for work or participating in other professional activities. These persistent barriers to full participation in the workforce have resulted in diminished…
Afghanistan
UN announces Transitional Engagement Framework (TEF) for Afghanistan to save lives, sustain services and preserve community systems
Kabul, Geneva, New York, 26 January 2022 – The UN team in Afghanistan has launched its One-UN Transitional Engagement Framework…

Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services



Title: Afghanistan: Weekly Humanitarian Update (16 - 22 September 2019) - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan+ 2 more
South: Civilian casualties and destruction of a hospital in Zabul
On 19 September, a vehicle-borne improvised explosive device (VBIED) attack claimed by a Non-State Armed Group (NSAG) in Zabul province caused severe damage to a provincial hospital rendering it out of service. Reportedly, 20 people were killed and more than 100 were injured. People have been receiving treatment in other hospitals in Zabul, with critical cases being sent to Kandahar. The majority of casualties were patients, doctors and hospital staff. Zabul is among the most under-served provinces in the country where 60 per cent of the population are more than two hours away from any health facility. Clashes continued in Uruzgan, Hilmand, Zabul and Kandahar provinces. Ongoing Afghanistan National Security (ANSF) operations have resulted in major displacement in Hilmand and Uruzgan provinces.
Inter-agency assessment teams identified 1,155 people as being in need of humanitarian assistance in Spin Boldak in Kandahar and Zaranj in Nimroz and Qalat in Zabul provinces in the past week.
North-east: 30,912 IDPs received assistance
In country’s north-east, armed clashes continued between ANSF and NSAG in Baghlan and Kunduz provinces. Last week, 3,500 people were displaced from Kocha Kampodar and Shenwary villages to Pul-Khumri city, Baghlan province due to the clashes between ANSF and NSAG. In Badakhshan, conflict continued in Khustak valley, Jorm district and significant displacement is expected. Humanitarian partners were not able to reach affected families in the Khustak valley due to ongoing military operations.
Last week, around 12,943 internally displaced persons (IDPs) affected by conflict were verified by inter-agency assessment teams in Baghlan, Kunduz, Takhar and Badakhshan provinces as being in need of humanitarian assistance. During the period, 30,912 IDPs displaced by conflict were reported to have received assistance in Kunduz, Baghlan, Badakhshan and Takhar provinces.
North: Clashes reported in several districts in Balkh and Faryab
In the north, clashes between NSAG and ANSF in Balkh and Faryab provinces continued. Reportedly, more than 210 people were displaced to Andkhoy district, Faryab province last week due to clashes in the Qurghan district administration centre. Also, sporadic armed clashes were reported between ANSF and NSAG in Pashtun Kot, Dawlat Abad and Garzewan districts of Faryab province.
During the past week, inter-agency teams verified 1,701 IDPs in need of humanitarian assistance in Balkh, Jawzjan and Sar-e-Pul, Samangan and Faryab provinces who were previously displaced by fighting. During the reporting period, 5,831 IDPs who were affected by conflict received humanitarian assistance in Balkh and Faryab provinces.
East: 7,623 people received humanitarian assistance
The security situation remained volatile in the east and military operations in Surkh Rod, Chaparhar and Achin districts in Nangarhar province and in Ghazi Abad and Sar Kani districts in Kunar province continued. Around 1,500 people were displaced from the Mazar Dara area in Nurgal district, Kunar province due to escalating clashes among NSAG. On 19 September, a drone strike hit the Wazir Tangi area of Khogyani district, Nangarhar province. International Military Forces confirmed that the Islamic State of Khorasan was the intended target while conflicting reports from the area indicate that farm workers may have been among the casualties. As the area is remote, the impact on civilians is still being assessed.
14 joint assessment teams verified 9,828 people as in need of humanitarian assistance who were affected by conflict in Surkh Rod, Khogyani and Jalalabad districts in Nangarhar. 7,623 people were reached with food, relief items, and water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) supplies in Nangarhar and Kunar provinces during the last week. The National Immunization Days polio campaign, conducted between 14 and 16 September, reached nearly 1.2 million children under five in the eastern Afghanistan, equivalent to 78 per cent of the target.
Centre: Election-related violence affecting civilians
On 17 September, a suicide bomber on a motorcycle detonated an improvised explosive device(IED) near the entrance of an election rally in Charikar, the provincial capital of Parwan province. According to initial reports, 24 people were killed and 34 others were wounded in the attack. Later, on the same day in Kabul, 16 people were killed and 45 injured by a suicide attack in Police District 9. The majority of casualties were civilians in both attacks. One female university student was killed and five others were injured when a roadside IED was detonated near a vehicle transporting university students in Ghazni on 16 September. Several other female students were injured and treated at nearby hospitals, according to local officials.
Throughout the country, civilians continued to be affected by violence in the lead up to the Presidential elections scheduled to take place on 28 September.
Between 17 and 18 September, 679 people in Khost and Maidan Wardak provinces, who were affected by conflict were reached with humanitarian assistance. Humanitarian partners also identified 4,557 IDPs affected by conflict who will receive assistance in Maidan Wardak, Paktya, and Daykundi provinces in the coming days.
West: Clashes continued, 1,400 displaced
Clashes continued in Anar Dara and Qala-e-Kah districts, Farah province. Last week, reportedly 1,400 people have been displaced from Kushk district, Hirat province due to clashes between ANSF and NSAG.
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:50Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Afghanistan: Weekly Humanitarian Update (2 - 8 September 2019) - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Northeast: Fighting continues, aid to Kunduz city
Fighting between the Taliban and Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) in Kunduz that began on 31 August continued in districts around the outside of the city. However, on 6 September, fighting calmed in the city that, according to Government sources, allowed approximately 21,700 people to return.Approximately 7,000 additional people remain displaced in other provinces, though this figure needs to be verified. Main roads around the province remain closed blocking the movement of civilians and essential goods.Assessments within and around Kunduz city are on-going. Initial findings show that more than 200 homes were partially damaged by conflict. Humanitarian partners have either mobilised or committed food or cash assistance, water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) and relief items for more than 1,500 people in need in Kunduz City.Military operations were ongoing in Eshkmesh district in Takhar province during the past week. Government figures report that 14 people were killed, 31 people were injured and more than 345 houses were destroyed. Between 1 and 7 September, approximately 5,495 internally displaced persons (IDPs) affected by conflict were identified to be in need of assistance in Kunduz and Baghlan provinces.
North: 1,400 people displaced by clashes
Clashes between Non-State Armed Groups (NSAG) and ANSF in Balkh and Faryab provinces caused more than 1,400 people to flee to Andkhoy, Khan-eChar Bagh and Qurghan districts in Faryab province. On 5 September, humanitarian agencies conducted needs assessments in Andkhoy and Khane-Char Bagh.During the past week, inter-agency teams verified 1,232 IDPs in Balkh, Jawzjan and Sar-e-Pul provinces previously displaced by the fighting. In Balkh province, most IDPs are very recently displaced while in Jawzjan and Sar-e-Pul provinces, the majority of IDPs were displaced in the last three to six months. In the past week, humanitarian partners provided cash for food and relief items to 126 IDPs in Andkhoy district in Faryab province.East: Over 4,000 people received humanitarian assistance On 1 September, a Government basic health center in the Kakrak area in Nangarhar province was damaged by fighting. The incident will deprive up to 11,000 people of access to medical services. The staff have been temporarily reassigned in other health facilities.Between 1 and 7 September, over 4,641 IDPs affected by conflict in Kunar, Laghman and Nangahar were assisted with food, WASH and other relief items.
Centre: Continuing violence and insecurity affecting civilans
Two explosions in Kabul on 2 and 5 September resulted in dozens of civilian deaths and injuries. Against the backdrop of US-Taliban talks and upcoming elections scheduled for 28 September, the overall security situation remained volatile in the Centre and throughout the country. There were also reports of improvised explosive device attacks and airstrikes in Kabul, Logar and Maidan Wardak provinces.On 2 September, heavy rains and flooding in Parwan province caused damage to houses, infrastructure, agricultural lands and the closure of the Parwan – Mazar highway in Salang district. A joint assessment team identified 707 people as in need of humanitarian assistance. Humanitarian actors will distribute cash for food, relief items, and WASH to all verified disaster affected families in the coming days. Humanitarian partners also assisted 1,281 conflict affected IDPs with a range of assistance in Bamyan, Panjsher, Paktika and Parwan provinces.
West: Security sitiution deteriorated in Farah and Hirat
The security situation in Hirat and Farah provinces deteriorated. On 5 September, the acting head of Afghanistan’s Independent Human Rights Commission (AIHRC) in Ghor province was reportedly assassinated in Jalriz district of Wardak province. On 6 September, four people were reportedly killed and 19 others injured as a result of clashes between the ANSF and NSAGs in Farah.During the previous week week, inter-agency assessment teams identified 868 IDPs in Adraskan and Pashtun Zarghun districts in Hirat who were displaced on 3 September as in need of cash for food and WASH. Also, cash for food, WASH, relief items and hygiene kits for women have been committed for 156 IDPs in Badghis province.
South: Clashes in rural areas, new polio cases reported
Insecurity increased in the South due to clashes between NSAGs and the ANSF in rural areas in Uruzgan, Hilmand, Zabul and Kandahar provinces. Reportedly, more than 300 families were displaced in Zabul and Kandahar provinces. On 1 September, 298 IDPs displaced by conflict were assisted with food, cash for relief items and WASH in Zaranj district of Nimroz province.Two new polio cases were confirmed in Tirinkot and Chora districts in Uruzgan province. 15 polio cases have been reported this year across the country with 14 of the 15 cases in the South.
Funding updates
On 5 September, the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) allocated US $16 million to Afghanistan as an under-funded emergency, to support humanitarian needs: $8 million for health, $4 million for WASH, $2 million for nutrition and $2 million for protection. UN agencies and their national and international humanitarian partners in Afghanistan will implement nine-month emergency projects to address humanitarian emergency needs in health, nutrition, protection, WASH, child protection, mine action and community-based protection monitoring. This allocation will support the humanitarian needs of the vulnerable people in 22 provinces.
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:50Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Afghanistan: Monthly Humanitarian Update (August 2019) - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
Civilians trapped in a pervasive protection crisis
319Incidents affecting access in 2019
133Attacks on health workers or facilities in 2019
27Aid workers killed in 2019
31Aid workers injured in 2019
33Aid workers abducted in 2019
PEOPLE IN AFGHANISTAN FACE UNCERTAIN TIMES
Civilians continue to be gravely impacted by the highly unpredictable and politicized situation in Afghanistan. Violence along with a number of political processes coming to a head risks impacting not only people in need, but also affects the access of aid workers and their ability to provide essential services to people in need.Although security incidents in early 2019 remained below 2018 levels, a change in conflict dynamics led to a marked increase in airstrikes and complex attacks. This included increased attacks by non-state armed groups (NSAG), Afghanistan National Security Force (ANSF) and International Military Forces (IMF). July recorded the highest number of security incidents thus far this year. Notably, on 28 July, an attack on the office of a political party in Kabul resulted in the deaths of 25 people (15 civilians) and an additional 70 civilian injuries.
Several high profile attacks also occurred in August. On 3 August, airstrikes reportedly targeting NSAGs in Andar and Wali Mohammad Shaheed districts of Ghazni Province damaged two nearby health facilities. The Afghan National Police Headquarters in Police District 6 in Kabul city was hit with a powerful vehicle-borne improvised explosive device (VBIED) on 7 August. The attack killed 36 people and injured some 150 others, the majority of whom were civilians. On 17 August, a suicide bomber detonated his vest at a wedding hall in Kabul, killing 85 people and injuring 187 others in an attack claimed by Islamic State Khorasan (ISK), the Islamic State’s Central Asian arm. Two days later, on 19 August, 17 improvised explosive devices (IEDs) were reported to have detonated across Jalalabad City in Nangarhar causing an estimated 125 injuries. On 31 August, fighting between NSAG and ANSF in Kunduz City caused thousands to be temporarily displaced. At least five people were killed and 56 others were injured according to initial reports. At the time of writing, high profile attacks impacting civilians continued into September.
According to UNAMA, more than 3,800 civilian casualties were recorded in the first half of 2019 and while civilian casualties decreased compared to previous years, they remained at unacceptably high levels. As documented by UNAMA, 2018 witnessed 10,993 civilian casualties (3,804 deaths and 7,189 injured) — the highest number of civilian deaths to date. Continued violence impacting civilians occurred against the backdrop of the 2019 presidential elections, a series of peace negotiations and an increasingly volatile political and security context. The IS-K remains an active and significant threat, particularly in the country’s East. Overall, the nature of the violence, along with the proliferation of NSAGs throughout the country, could see more civilians being touched by the conflict than before.
During the 2014 Presidential and provincial council elections in April and the Presidential run-off election in June, UNAMA documented 242 incidents of ground attacks targeting the electoral process resulting in 380 civilian casualties (74 killed and 306 injured). UNAMA also recorded multiple incidents where mortars impacted schools that were used as polling centres that affected access to education.
The level of civilian casualties in 2014 was surpassed in 2018 during the parliamentary elections. Following a three-year delay, the October 2018 parliamentary elections were characterised by abductions, threats, intimidation and harassment of voters and election workers by NSAGs. From 14 April with the opening of the voter registration period to the end of 2018, UNAMA verified 1,007 election-related civilian casualties (226 deaths and 781 injured). This was highest level of civilians harmed in the last four previous elections held in Afghanistan.
While the increase in conflict in 2014 was linked to a period of political and security transition, it also had a detrimental impact on the presence of humanitarians and their capacity to stay and deliver. In 2014, due to the election period, a number of humanitarian organisations reduced their presence and suspended key activities in April and May. Despite these challenges some 134 humanitarian organisations continued to operate in the country which included eight United Nations agencies, funds and programmes; 70 international NGOs; and 50 national NGOs.
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Afghanistan: Monthly Humanitarian Update (August 2019) - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
Civilians trapped in a pervasive protection crisis
319Incidents affecting access in 2019
133Attacks on health workers or facilities in 2019
27Aid workers killed in 2019
31Aid workers injured in 2019
33Aid workers abducted in 2019
PEOPLE IN AFGHANISTAN FACE UNCERTAIN TIMES
Civilians continue to be gravely impacted by the highly unpredictable and politicized situation in Afghanistan. Violence along with a number of political processes coming to a head risks impacting not only people in need, but also affects the access of aid workers and their ability to provide essential services to people in need.Although security incidents in early 2019 remained below 2018 levels, a change in conflict dynamics led to a marked increase in airstrikes and complex attacks. This included increased attacks by non-state armed groups (NSAG), Afghanistan National Security Force (ANSF) and International Military Forces (IMF). July recorded the highest number of security incidents thus far this year. Notably, on 28 July, an attack on the office of a political party in Kabul resulted in the deaths of 25 people (15 civilians) and an additional 70 civilian injuries.
Several high profile attacks also occurred in August. On 3 August, airstrikes reportedly targeting NSAGs in Andar and Wali Mohammad Shaheed districts of Ghazni Province damaged two nearby health facilities. The Afghan National Police Headquarters in Police District 6 in Kabul city was hit with a powerful vehicle-borne improvised explosive device (VBIED) on 7 August. The attack killed 36 people and injured some 150 others, the majority of whom were civilians. On 17 August, a suicide bomber detonated his vest at a wedding hall in Kabul, killing 85 people and injuring 187 others in an attack claimed by Islamic State Khorasan (ISK), the Islamic State’s Central Asian arm. Two days later, on 19 August, 17 improvised explosive devices (IEDs) were reported to have detonated across Jalalabad City in Nangarhar causing an estimated 125 injuries. On 31 August, fighting between NSAG and ANSF in Kunduz City caused thousands to be temporarily displaced. At least five people were killed and 56 others were injured according to initial reports. At the time of writing, high profile attacks impacting civilians continued into September.
According to UNAMA, more than 3,800 civilian casualties were recorded in the first half of 2019 and while civilian casualties decreased compared to previous years, they remained at unacceptably high levels. As documented by UNAMA, 2018 witnessed 10,993 civilian casualties (3,804 deaths and 7,189 injured) — the highest number of civilian deaths to date. Continued violence impacting civilians occurred against the backdrop of the 2019 presidential elections, a series of peace negotiations and an increasingly volatile political and security context. The IS-K remains an active and significant threat, particularly in the country’s East. Overall, the nature of the violence, along with the proliferation of NSAGs throughout the country, could see more civilians being touched by the conflict than before.
During the 2014 Presidential and provincial council elections in April and the Presidential run-off election in June, UNAMA documented 242 incidents of ground attacks targeting the electoral process resulting in 380 civilian casualties (74 killed and 306 injured). UNAMA also recorded multiple incidents where mortars impacted schools that were used as polling centres that affected access to education.
The level of civilian casualties in 2014 was surpassed in 2018 during the parliamentary elections. Following a three-year delay, the October 2018 parliamentary elections were characterised by abductions, threats, intimidation and harassment of voters and election workers by NSAGs. From 14 April with the opening of the voter registration period to the end of 2018, UNAMA verified 1,007 election-related civilian casualties (226 deaths and 781 injured). This was highest level of civilians harmed in the last four previous elections held in Afghanistan.
While the increase in conflict in 2014 was linked to a period of political and security transition, it also had a detrimental impact on the presence of humanitarians and their capacity to stay and deliver. In 2014, due to the election period, a number of humanitarian organisations reduced their presence and suspended key activities in April and May. Despite these challenges some 134 humanitarian organisations continued to operate in the country which included eight United Nations agencies, funds and programmes; 70 international NGOs; and 50 national NGOs.
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Pakistan Army, ISI providing institutional support to terror groups in Afghanistan: Activist
Geneva:An Afghan human rights activist on Wednesday accused the Pakistani Army and its intelligence agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) of providing institutional support to terrorist groups operating in Afghanistan. The activist — Bilal Sarway was addressing the 42nd session of the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) when he made the claims.
According to a report by news agency ANI, Sarway said that the Haqqani Network, the Afghan insurgent group is a 'veritable arm' of Pakistan's ISI and held it responsible for some of the worst attacks in Kabul.
"Pakistan-sponsored terrorism has resulted in the deaths of the Afghan military personnel, international aid workers, civilians, children, and very often entire families have vanished due to these attacks," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.
"Our cities, schools, clinics, funerals, and weddings have been targeted in these brutal terrorist attacks. The leader of the Haqqani network is the deputy head of operations for the Taliban. He enjoys institution support, sanctuary, and financial support from the Pakistani Army and the intelligence agency," he further added during the event.
It may be noted that in 2015, the US designated Haqqani Network as a terrorist organisation. In 2015, Pakistan also banned the outfit under its national action plan. Sarway said that madrasas in major Pakistani cities recruit and train fighters and hate speeches against Afghanistan are common.
"Funding is publicly raised in the name of jihad or holy war," he further claimed. The Haqqani Network aligns with the Taliban, a group that has claimed responsibility for some of the worst attacks in the history of Afghanistan.
Watch Times NowLIVE TVfor latest and breaking news fromIndiaand around theworld.

Title: Business News Today: Read Latest Business news, India Business News Live, Share Market & Economy News | The Economic Times
Get only relevant updates on WhatsApp. No Spam.
Learn from the top business gurus.
September 23
India's corporate travel sector, valued at over USD 10.6 billion, is projected to grow at a 10.1% CAGR to USD 20.8 billion by FY30. This gro...
India's electric two-wheeler market is booming, but exports remain minimal. Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari sees potential for India ...
Monthly instalment schemes by jewellers are sustaining gold demand despite high prices. Tanishq, Reliance Jewels, and Senco Gold have seen s...
Vodafone Idea has been directed to pay Rs 50,000 in compensation to a senior citizen for mental harassment due to abrupt disconnection of hi...
Quick commerce is driving growth in grocery shopping, with 31% of Indian shoppers using it for core needs and 39% for top-ups, according to ...
The expo and the conference combined represent the most sought-after event of the Oil & Gas industry that is held every year to bring the in...
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Java Programming with ChatGPT: Learn using Generative AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Basics of Generative AI : Unveiling Tomorrow's Innovations
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Generative AI for Dynamic Java Web Applications with ChatGPT
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Mastering C++ Fundamentals with Generative AI: A Hands-On
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Master in Python Language Quickly Using the ChatGPT Open AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Zero to Hero in Microsoft Excel: Complete Excel guide 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Stock Trading
Market 101: An Insight into Trendlines and Momentum
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Markets 102: Mastering Sentiment Indicators for Swing and Positional Trading
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Market 103: Mastering Trends with RMI and Techno-Funda Insights
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Market 104: Options Trading: Kickstart Your F&O Adventure
By - Saketh R, Founder- QuickAlpha, Full Time Options Trader
Astrology
Vastu Shastra Course
By - Sachenkumar Rai, Vastu Shashtri
Data Science
SQL for Data Science along with Data Analytics and Data Visualization
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Web Development
A Comprehensive ASP.NET Core MVC 6 Project Guide for 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Stock Trading
ROC Made Easy: Master Course for ROC Stock Indicator
By - Souradeep Dey, Equity and Commodity Trader, Trainer
Stock Trading
RSI Made Easy: RSI Trading Course
By - Souradeep Dey, Equity and Commodity Trader, Trainer
Stock Trading
Technical Analysis for Everyone - Technical Analysis Course
By - Abhijit Paul, Technical Research Head, Fund Manager- ICICI Securities
Office Productivity
Mastering Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and 365
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Marketing
Digital marketing - Wordpress Website Development
By - Shraddha Somani, Digital Marketing Trainer, Consultant, Strategiest and Subject Matter expert
Web Development
Mastering Full Stack Development: From Frontend to Backend Excellence
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Finance
Financial Literacy i.e Lets Crack the Billionaire Code
By - CA Rahul Gupta, CA with 10+ years of domain experience, trainer
Stock Trading
Introduction to Technical Analysis & Candlestick Theory
By - Dinesh Nagpal, Full Time Trader, Ichimoku & Trading Psychology Expert
Leadership
Business Storytelling Masterclass
By - Ameen Haque, Founder of Storywallahs
Marketing
Future of Marketing & Branding Masterclass
By - Dr. David Aaker, Professor at Haas School of Business
HR
Human Potential and the Future of Employment
By - Lynda Gratton, Co-chair of the World Economic Forum Council on Work, Wages and Job Creation, Professor of Management Practice
Strategy
ESG and Business Sustainability Strategy
By - Vipul Arora, Partner, ESG & Climate Solutions at Sattva Consulting Author I Speaker I Thought Leader
Stock Trading
Options Trading Course For Beginners
By - Chetan Panchamia, Options Trader
Finance
Financial Reporting and Analytics
By - Dr. C.P. Gupta, Professor: Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi
Stock Trading
Options Scalping Made Easy
By - Sivakumar Jayachandran, Ace Scalper
Stock Trading
Futures Trading Made Easy: Future & Options Trading Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Markets Made Easy
By - elearnmarkets, Financial Education by StockEdge
Stock Trading
Renko Chart Patterns Made Easy
By - Kaushik Akiwatkar, Derivative Trader and Investor
Stock Trading
Options Trading Made Easy: Options Trading Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Investing Made Easy: Beginner's Stock Market Investment Course
By - elearnmarkets, Financial Education by StockEdge
Stock Trading
Macroeconomics Made Easy: Online Certification Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Valuation Made Easy
By - Rounak Gouti, Investment commentary writer
Tuesday, 24 Sep, 2024
Vodafone Idea (Vi) has said it’s now up to the government to come up with a mechanism to offer financial relief to the company, after the Supreme Court’s recent rejection of the telco’s curative petition seeking a re-computation of its adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues.
India’s aspiration to be a $7-trillion economy by the end of the decade can be achieved as a “strong” Prime Minister Narendra Modi rolls out the digital and physical infrastructure that’s drawing multinationals involved in manufacturing advanced products and services, said Jamie Dimon, chairman and CEO, JPMorgan.
This is India’s moment and the country should seize it, Nvidia chief executive Jensen Huang said after a roundtable in New York between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and leading technology industry CEOs. Sundar Pichai, the CEO of Google and its parent Alphabet, said the Prime Minister has a clear vision of the opportunity that artificial intelligence will create, and is challenging top companies to do more in India.
Securing a US student visa is just the beginning for international students. Maintaining it is crucial, as violations like prolonged absence, unauthorized transfer, or fraudulent activities can lead to revocation. Immediate steps include understanding the reason, contacting university services, reapplying or appealing, and seeking legal assistance if necessary.
High net worth Indians are using corporate credit cards for personal expenses during overseas travels to avoid breaching the $250,000 annual limit on foreign remittance. The government may soon implement rules to include international credit card spends under this limit, but distinguishing personal from business expenses remains challenging.
Prodigy Finance has announced a $5,000 scholarship for students pursuing higher education abroad for the Spring 2025 intake. Applications open in September 2024 and close on September 30, 2024. Eligible candidates must be accepted into a Prodigy Finance-supported program and demonstrate academic excellence and community commitment.
Rajinikanth to Mahesh Babu: South Stars Steal The Spotlight at Anant Ambani's Wedding
Explore Goa In The Rains: 10 Must-Do Activities, Places To Visit
Sonakshi Sinha wedding photos out: Actress marries Zaheer Iqbal in civil ceremony
How Four Words from Chiranjeevi Saved Pawan Kalyan's Life
​Mushrooms Can Lower Risk Of A Cancer Diagnosis​​​
What To Eat, What To Avoid During Pregnancy? Follow This ICMR Guide
Want To Live Longer? Watch Your Salt Intake, Advises ICMR
How vegans can get enough protein? What ICMR says
Balakrishna's 5 Controversies. Latest: Actress Anjali Incident
Why These Two Rs 10 Notes Fetched Over Rs 12 Lakhs At Auction?
Magnificent Mango: 5 Beauty Secrets Of This Summer Delight
​Radhika Merchant’s Space Suit Designer For Ambani Pre-Wedding Bash, Has Worked With Jennifer Lopez & Karlie Kloss!​
​Flax Seeds Can Aid In Weight Loss, Improve Gut Heath: Here’s The Best Time To Consume Them​
​NASA Finds 126 Alien Planets! Does This Mean There’s Extraterrestrial Life?​
You Can Enjoy This 5-Day Cruise For Just Rs 5,000. Thanks To Indian Govt
Scandals that destroyed Bollywood celebs' career
​From Vedavid To Vamika, 6 Bollywood Babies With Unique Names​
Blockout 2024: From Taylor Swift To Alia Bhatt, Celebs Are Being Boycotted Online
Gainers & Losers: Vedanta, IEX among 7 stocks in limelight on Tuesday
SIPs in 5 small cap mutual funds multiplied wealth by 100x in 15 years
9 famous street food to try when in Gujarat
8 yoga poses to reduce stubborn waist fat
8 health benefits of having ghee coffee in the morning
9 excellent immunity boosting food for kids
9 chia seeds benefits for skin and hair
These 4 F&O stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest
These 4 stocks closed above VWAP on September 23
These 3 stocks showed RSI Trending up on September 23
Bullish Momentum: These 3 stocks with White Marubozu Pattern on September 23
These 4 stocks closed below VWAP on September 23
At multi-year highs: These 6 stocks witnessed 5-year swing high breakouts
Positive Breakout: ACC among 4 stocks crossed their 200 DMAs
Chia Seeds: Miracle Superfood Or Overhyped Trend
Who Has Chris Martin Dated? A Look At Coldplay Singer's Famous Girlfriends
Gainers & Losers: Vodafone Idea, Indus Towers among 6 stocks in limelight on Monday
7 immunity boosting drinks for weather change
7 high-protein dishes made with chickpeas
7 house plants best suited for bathroom
7 effective morning exercises to lose weight
Gold price up more than 23% in one year; check latest price of gold
7 common mistakes you are doing to lose weight
7 health benefits of drinking haldi doodh everyday at night
7 homemade drinks to boost energy
Tech Mahindra among 3 stocks showing RSI trending up
Cochin Shipyard among 5 stocks with White Marubozu Pattern
These 5 F&O stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest
Finolex Industries and 3 other stocks close below VWAP
Vodafone Idea and 3 other stocks closed above VWAP
Check out these iconic Bonedi Bari Durga Puja in Kolkata
Why your EPF claim may get rejected: Here are 11 reasons
What DonaldTrump promised to accomplish on day one as president
Cancer patients: Tips to go through chemotherapy
Direct Tax Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme 2024: CBDT notifies these rules, forms from October 1, 2024
Oscars 2025: 'Laapataa Ladies' picked as India's entry; how Kiran Rao reacted, top film contenders and other details
India’s first Mpox clade 1 case in Kerala: Symptoms, treatment, risk factors, travel advices and other details
Want to visit the equator? Countries to consider and your budget guide from India
Top 5 flexi-cap funds with up to 28% returns in 3 yrs
Kamala Harris isn't alone! 5 Indian politicians who love to cook and eat
Hot on Web
In Case you missed it
Top Calculators
Top Prime Articles
Top Performing MF
Top Story Listing
Top Commodities
Top Definitions
Top Slideshow
Latest News
Follow us on:

Title: Pakistan army: Afghan civil society groups target Pakistan Army at UNHRC session in Geneva - The Economic Times
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Java Programming with ChatGPT: Learn using Generative AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Basics of Generative AI : Unveiling Tomorrow's Innovations
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Generative AI for Dynamic Java Web Applications with ChatGPT
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Mastering C++ Fundamentals with Generative AI: A Hands-On
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Master in Python Language Quickly Using the ChatGPT Open AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Zero to Hero in Microsoft Excel: Complete Excel guide 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Astrology
Vastu Shastra Course
By - Sachenkumar Rai, Vastu Shashtri
Data Science
SQL for Data Science along with Data Analytics and Data Visualization
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Web Development
A Comprehensive ASP.NET Core MVC 6 Project Guide for 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Mastering Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and 365
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Marketing
Digital marketing - Wordpress Website Development
By - Shraddha Somani, Digital Marketing Trainer, Consultant, Strategiest and Subject Matter expert
Web Development
Mastering Full Stack Development: From Frontend to Backend Excellence
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Finance
Financial Literacy i.e Lets Crack the Billionaire Code
By - CA Rahul Gupta, CA with 10+ years of domain experience, trainer
Leadership
Business Storytelling Masterclass
By - Ameen Haque, Founder of Storywallahs
Marketing
Future of Marketing & Branding Masterclass
By - Dr. David Aaker, Professor at Haas School of Business
HR
Human Potential and the Future of Employment
By - Lynda Gratton, Co-chair of the World Economic Forum Council on Work, Wages and Job Creation, Professor of Management Practice
Strategy
ESG and Business Sustainability Strategy
By - Vipul Arora, Partner, ESG & Climate Solutions at Sattva Consulting Author I Speaker I Thought Leader
Finance
Financial Reporting and Analytics
By - Dr. C.P. Gupta, Professor: Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi
(Catch all theBusiness News,Breaking News,Budget 2024Events andLatest NewsUpdates onThe Economic Times.)
Subscribe toThe Economic Times Primeand read theET ePaperonline.
(Catch all theBusiness News,Breaking News,Budget 2024Events andLatest NewsUpdates onThe Economic Times.)
Subscribe toThe Economic Times Primeand read theET ePaperonline.

Flyers are denied free airport lounge access. The behind the scenes that led to it.
In the new world trade order, is narrative shifting from profits to wages?
Alcobev firms undergo a hangover in Q1 FY25 despite premium push
8 things India should know about Pakistan’s new spy chief
A 98% haircut for SUUTI in Modern Syntex resolution plan raises eyebrows
Can BookMyShow’s Coldplay mess be Zomato’s big ticket opportunity?
US backs India, Japan & Germany for UNSC permanent seats
'Don’t make a mockery of our sentiments...'
A bird may sing in Kabul, but a girl may not: Meryl Streep
PM Modi caps his US trip with a meeting with Zelenskyy
Israel targets Hezbollah missiles buried in civilian buildings
MUDA scam case: K'taka HC's big jolt to CM Sidda
Iran seeks a world free of nuclear weapons: Pezeshkian
K'taka mandates Urdu proficiency for Anganwadi teachers' posts
Hugs, diplomacy, Bonhomie! Highlights from PM Modi’s US visit
Iron Dome Defends Israel from Hezbollah Rockets
Hot on Web
In Case you missed it
Top Searched Companies
Top Calculators
Top Definitions
Most Searched IFSC Codes
Top Story Listing
Top Prime Articles
Top Slideshow
Private Companies
Latest News
Follow us on:
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Reason for reporting:
Your Reason has been Reported to the admin.
Log In/Connect with:
Will be displayed
Will not be displayed
Will be displayed
Worry not. You’re just a step away.
It seems like you're already an ETPrime member with
Login using your ET Prime credentials to enjoy all member benefits
Log out of your current logged-in accountand log in again using your ET Prime credentials  to enjoy all member benefits.

To read full story, subscribe to ET Prime
₹34 per week
Billed annually at₹2499₹1749
Super Saver Sale - Flat 30% Off
On ET Prime Membership
Offer Exclusively For You
Save up to Rs. 700/-
ON ET PRIME MEMBERSHIP
Offer Exclusively For You
Get 1 Year Free
With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership
Offer Exclusively For You
Get 1 Year Free
With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership
Offer Exclusively For You
Get Flat 40% Off
Then  ₹ 1749 for 1 year
Offer Exclusively For You
ET Prime at ₹ 49 for 1 month
Then  ₹ 1749 for 1 year
Market Savvy Offer
Get flat 20% off on ETPrime




90 Days Prime access worth Rs999 unlocked for you
Exclusive Economic Times Stories, Editorials & Expert opinionacross 20+ sectors
Stock analysis. Market Research. Industry Trendson 4000+ Stocks
​Get1 Year Complimentary Subscription of TOI+worth Rs.799/-​
Stories you might be interested in

Title: Jaish, Lashkar shifting bases to Afghanistan post-Balakot, join hands with Taliban, Haqqani Network 
KABUL: Intelligence inputs have revealed that Pakistan-based terror outfits Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) have joined hands with Afghan insurgent groups like Haqqani Network and Afghan Taliban after the launch of Balakot air strike by the Indian Air Force (IAF) on February 26.
It is indicated that these terror groups are shifting their base to Afghanistan near the international border in areas including Kandahar and Kunar.
The IAF jets attacked JeM's terror camp in Balakot after the February 14 attack by a suicide bomber on a CRPF convoy in Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir.
Sources reveal that Pakistan-based terror outfits are shifting their base across the border in Afghanistan to avoid blacklisting of Pakistan by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) later this year.
ALSO READ:BSF launches operation ‘Sudarshan’ to fortify Pakistan border in Punjab and Jammu
Pakistan remains on the grey list of FATF, a global terror financing watchdog which has asked Islamabad to take steps to curb money laundering and terror financing.
India wanted Pakistan to be placed on the blacklist, a move that would negatively impact Pakistan's economy.
After facing intense international pressure, the Pakistan-based terror outfits are hiding in safe havens in Taliban-dominated areas in Afghanistan. They are even posing a threat to the Indian diplomatic establishments, including the Indian embassy in Kabul.
Intelligence sources reveal that the Indian consulate in Kandahar has been kept on high alert against a Taliban attack.
ALSO READ:Pakistan arrests regional head of international NGO for funding Al-Qaeda
The revelation about JeM and LeT treats in Afghanistan came after the arrest of Jaish terrorists Sediq Akbar and Ataullah by Afghan National Security Force from Jalalabad earlier this year.
Sources also reveal that JeM chief Masood Azhar was offered shelter in Afghanistan by the Haqqani Network earlier this year. However, Masood feels himself safe under the protection of Pakistan Army in Bahawalpur.
A Pentagon report earlier this year revealed that the US considers LeT as one of the greatest threats to Washington and its allied forces in war-torn Afghanistan, where at least 300 fighters from the terror group are active.
Responsible for the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, the LeT is designated as a global terror organisation by the US and the UN.
The report said that among the 20 prominent terrorist organisations active in Afghanistan, LeT ranks fifth in terms of fighters along with al-Qaeda and Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan.
The rising footprint of JeM will pose more threats to people and security agencies in Afghanistan.
Follow The New Indian Express channel on WhatsApp
Download the TNIE app to stay with us and follow the latest

Copyright - newindianexpress.com 2024. All rights reserved.


Title: Will there be an Afghanistan peace deal? - Daily Times
Daily Times
Your right to knowTuesday, September 24, 2024
Op-Ed

Yasmeen Aftab Ali@yasmeen_9
September 6, 2019
According to senior European and Afghan officials, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is refusing to sign the suggested Peace Plan between U.S and Afghanistan. After 18 years of boots on ground, this is the first time US and Taliban have been so close to an ‘understanding’.
However, there are many loopholes that in a rush to finalize an agreement, both parties have ignored. It took nine rounds of intensive negotiations spread over 10 months to reach this point. If Trump agrees with the draft agreement roughly 5,400 armed men from the five bases will be withdrawn in the next 135 days.
But, if the peace plan goes through-will it ensure peace in Afghanistan? Khalilzad, wants Taliban to guarantee that Afghan soil will not be used for military attacks abroad. Can the Taliban deliver on this promise even if it wants to? Will the Taliban be willing to break its ties with Al-Qaeda? It’s not only about Al-Qaida, the group Taliban supported in 2001. Many others emerged as an outcome of Sino-Soviet war like Haqqani Network. The Islamic Jihad Union and Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan both have their strong footprints in Afghanistan. ISIS, a splinter group from al Qaeda gained strength in 2013. ISIS has expanded gaining roots in Central Asia and Afghanistan. ISIS has morphed into a strong militant group boasting sophisticated military expertise and high rate of success of targeting civilians.
The Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) and Taliban have been very close. In 2010, when Taliban set up a shadow government in Afghanistan’s northern province, members of IMU were part of this cabinet. Usman Ghazi, leading IMU decided to support ISIS in 2015, creating anger in the Taliban thereby loyalties of IMU members split between Taliban and ISIS, weakening IMU.
The Haqqani Network has a strong organizational structure but remains a sister concern of Afghan Taliban. Officially founded by by Jalaluddin Haqqani in 1994 it merged with Taliban in 1996. Haqqani network objective is to establish Islamic State in Afghanistan and Pakistan by creating a Caliphate based on Laws of Islam. It is pertinent to note CIA supported Haqqani network providing them not only with cash but also with weapons during their fight against Soviets in Afghanistan. The group has been responsible for many high profile attacks including the 2008 and 2009 suicide bombings of the Indian Embassy in Kabul and in 2011 and attack on Kabul Intercontinental Hotel.
The Islamic Jihad Union (IJU) involves many terrorists outfits/extremists based on rebels who are Uzbek, Kyrgyz and Kazakh radicals having links with IMU.
The question that arises is, can Taliban offer a guarantee for these and many other motley outfits?
Further Ghani’s government was put out in the cold during the ‘peace talks’ as the Taliban refused to accept them as an independent entity and labelling them as a puppet government. Their future hangs precariously in balance upon the positive outcome of this deal.
Trump is rushing to a closing of the chapter in Afghanistan, with elections in U.S looming in horizon and to fulfill his election promise to get the ‘the boys home.’
What will be the fate of the other organizations with an exclusive ‘agreement’ between U.S and Taliban?
The ‘deal’ does not involve a date of ceasefire from these entities. The loophole was glaringly obvious when 16 people were killed owing to a Taliban attack on the facilities of housing used by international organization at a time when Khalilzad’s interview on peace talks was being broadcast. “The agreement would not end the fighting between the Taliban and Afghan security forces, but would allow the start of “intra-Afghan” peace talks, expected to be held in the Norwegian capital of Oslo.” (The Guardian, September 1st, 2019)
The exclusionary nature of the ongoing talks, is the proverbial fig leaf for the promise by Taliban to deliver on their end of the bargain. The only consistent element of the talks has been ignoring stakeholders not on board to achieve a solution.
In light of Secretary of State Pompeo refusing to ink his signature on the document, “there are two alternatives. Khalilzad himself may sign it. Or the U.S. and the Taliban may simply issue a joint statement, supported in turn by the U.S.-backed government in Kabul and a number of other countries, including Japan, Russia and China, two Afghan sources familiar with the deliberations tell TIME.” (TIME Magazine, September 4, 2019)
Trump is rushing to a closing of the chapter in Afghanistan, with elections in U.S looming in horizon and to fulfill his election promise to get the ‘the boys home.’
However, the hope that all stakeholders including the Taliban, all other extremist outfits, the Afghan people and the Afghan government will live happily ever after once U.S exits from Afghanistan is a piper’s dream. Once the exit starts, a reverse gear will likely not be possible.
What is also ignored is that the external stakeholders like the governments of Pakistan, U.S, Russia, Iran, India, Qatar and China have different interests in most cases conflicting with each other in the outcome of the ‘peace deal’. Afghanistan issues are complex and U.S talks with Taliban alone and rushing the deal through to exit will inevitably lead to a theatre showing in fights, external pressures and involvement of players-and bloodshed.
The writer is a lawyer, academic and political analyst. She has authored a book titled ‘A Comparative Analysis of Media & Media Laws in Pakistan.’ She can be contacted at: yasmeenali62@gmail.com and tweets at @yasmeen_9




More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category

HomeLead StoriesLatest NewsEditor’s Picks
CultureLife & StyleFeaturedVideos
EditorialsOP-EDSCommentaryAdvertise
CartoonsLettersBlogsPrivacy Policy
ContactCompany’s FinancialsInvestor InformationTerms & Conditions
FacebookTwitterInstagramYoutube
Copyright © 2024 Daily TimesWebsite Developed ByDaily Times Developers