Title: Afghanistan's president rejects foreign interference – DW – 08/11/2019
Afghanistan's president has said peace is only possible with an agreement between Afghanistan and the Taliban. His remarks come amid US efforts to finalize a peace deal with the Taliban.
Afghan President Ashraf Ghani on Sunday said he did not want foreign nations to interfere in the country's affairs, as the United States and the Talibanappear near to closing a peace dealwithout the government's input.
Ghani made the comments during the Muslim holiday Eid-al-Adha, while US and Taliban negotiators continue to work towards the peace deal in the Gulf nation of Qatar, where the insurgents have a political office.
Read more:Violence spikes in Afghanistan – is peace with Taliban a good idea?
In a televised speech, Ghani referenced the upcoming presidential elections and said that "without a legitimate and strong government that comes through an election, Afghans won't be able to achieve a dignified peace."
"Our future cannot be decided outside, whether in the capital cities of our friends, nemeses or neighbors. The fate of Afghanistan will be decided here in this homeland," Ghani said. "We don't want anyone to intervene in our affairs."
Ghani emphasied that peace was only possible "between the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the Taliban movement."
Read more:Why a Taliban peace deal won't end bloodshed in Afghanistan
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
Hope for deal before election
US envoy Zalmay Khalilzad is hoping to reach a peace deal by September 1, weeks before Afghanistan's presidential election.
The Taliban has consistently refused to take part in direct talks with the government, which they have labeled a "puppet."
The US and the Taliban are expected to agree on the withdrawal of some 20,000 US and NATO troops in return for Taliban assurances that Afghanistan would not be a base for other extremist groups.
Read more:Were Afghan peace talks in Qatar a success?
Further details of the deal are scarce, but Khalilzad and the lead Taliban negotiator, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, have been traveling in recent days to speak to several countries involved in the process on the latest developments.
A peace deal would be followed by intra-Afghan talks, but it is not yet clear whether the Taliban would agree to talk to Kabul government members in their official capacity or only as ordinary Afghans, as they have done in the past.
The Taliban control about half of Afghanistan and are currently at their strongest since the US-led invasion toppled their five-year-old government in 2001.
law/amp (AP, dpa)
Every evening DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.

Title: No title found


Title: Taliban says latest talks end on US's Afghanistan withdrawal – India TV
Taliban says latest talks end on US's Afghanistan withdrawal
A Taliban spokesman says the latest round of talks with the United States on a deal to withdraw US troops from Afghanistan has ended and now both sides will consult their leadership on the next steps.
A statement by spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid says the eighth round of talks in the Gulf nation of Qatar ended after midnight on Monday. He called them "long and useful."
Another Taliban spokesman last week said a deal was expected at the end of this round.
The agreement is expected to include Taliban guarantees that Afghanistan would not be a base for other extremist groups.
It also could include a cease-fire and Taliban negotiations with other Afghan representatives, though the Taliban has refused to negotiate with the Afghan government, dismissing it as a US puppet.
ALSO READ:15 Taliban terrorists killed in military airstrike in Afghanistan
ALSO READ:Kashmir issue should not be linked to Afghanistan: Taliban
ALSO READ:New York man plotting to travel to Pakistan to join Taliban arrested at JFK airport
Top News
Tirupati laddus row: Devotee claims tobacco found in prasadam, TTD denies reports
Tirupati's Laddu Row: Spat between Pawan Kalyan, Prakash Raj continues
Ishan Kishan included, Dhruv Jurel, Yash Dayal picked in Rest of India's squad for Irani Cup
Related World News
BREAKING: Hezbollah attacks Israeli army base with new rocket Fadi 3
BREAKING: Israeli airstrike on Beirut kills Hezbollah commander Ibrahim Quabaisi | Report
'Suicide capsule': In a first, woman dies in Switzerland within minutes of pressing 'death button'
Bangladesh govt chief Yunus evades questions from Indian media in New York | Video goes viral
Israel's deadliest airstrikes on Lebanon kill 558 including 50 children, 94 women: Health Ministry
Latest News
BREAKING: Hezbollah attacks Israeli army base with new rocket Fadi 3
BREAKING: Israeli airstrike on Beirut kills Hezbollah commander Ibrahim Quabaisi | Report
'Suicide capsule': In a first, woman dies in Switzerland within minutes of pressing 'death button'
Coffee Par Kurukshetra: Will Israel agree by eliminating Hezbollah?
© 2009-2024 Independent News Service.  All rights reserved.
Muqabla: Badlapur encounter true or fake?
As tensions between Israel & Hezbollah rise, what will be socio-economic impact of a full-blown war?
Yoga, 24 September 2024: 4 'white' enemies in the path of long life...How to get a healthy life?
PM Modi at UN 'Summit of the Future': Poverty to Global South, Top 5 takeaways from PM Modi's speech
Israel-Hezbollah Conflict: IDF bombards over 300 Hezbollah targets in Lebanon, several dead
Tirupati laddu row: Centre issues show cause notice to ghee supplier
Punjab govt conducts major administrative reshuffle, transfers 124 IAS, PCS officers
OPINION | Encounters: Are They Caste Based?
Breaking News, September 24 | LIVE updates
Aaj Ki Baat: Full episode, September 23, 2024
BREAKING: Israeli airstrike on Beirut kills Hezbollah commander Ibrahim Quabaisi | Report
'Suicide capsule': In a first, woman dies in Switzerland within minutes of pressing 'death button'
Bangladesh govt chief Yunus evades questions from Indian media in New York | Video goes viral
Israel's deadliest airstrikes on Lebanon kill 558 including 50 children, 94 women: Health Ministry
Harini Amarasuriya named as the new Prime Minister of Sri Lanka | Who is she?
Tirupati's Laddu Row: Spat between Pawan Kalyan, Prakash Raj continues
Sohum Shah’s Tumbbad surpasses Thalapathy Vijay's Ghilli, becomes highest-grossing Indian re-release
Did you know Omar Abdullah had THIS objection to Ranbir-Deepika starrer 'Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani'?
Vashu Bhagnani, Jackky Bhagnani accuse Ali Abbas Zafar for of siphoning funds
Maharaj actor Shalini Pandey joins Dhanush's 'Idli Kadai', begins shooting in Hyderabad
Ishan Kishan included, Dhruv Jurel, Yash Dayal picked in Rest of India's squad for Irani Cup
Ajinkya Rahane to lead, Shreyas Iyer, Shardul Thakur in as Mumbai announce squad for Irani Cup
On This Day in 2007: MS Dhoni-led team India won inaugural T20 World Cup edition beating Pakistan
First time in more than 20 years! Nicholas Pooran touches massive six-hitting milestone in 2024
Virat Kohli on cusp of breaking Sachin Tendulkar and Don Bradman's records vs Bangladesh in 2nd Test
How new Jammu and Kashmir assembly will be different from earlier ones in terms of power?
Israel-Hezbollah tensions peak: What will be socio-economic impact of full-blown war? | EXPLAINED
Jammu and Kashmir Assembly Elections: How many candidates in Phase 2 are facing criminal cases?
When was last 'One Nation, One Election' held in India and who broke the cycle? DETAILS
One Nation, One Election: Why is Centre planning to implement it, what are its benefits? | Explained
Fake registration drive: Tax authorities uncover over 10,000 bogus firms under GST across country
Stock markets early trade: Sensex crosses 85,000-mark for first time, Nifty hits record high
EPFO withdrawal: How to withdraw money from PF account without employer’s approval? Check process
Sensex, Nifty touch all-time closing high levels amid strong foreign fund inflows
Will UPI users discontinue service if transaction fee is imposed? Check what survey reveals
Suffering from back pain? It can be a sign of heart attack, know other symptoms
Fed up of wearing glasses all day long? Follow THESE natural remedies to improve your eyesight
Fatty liver causes several serious health issues, know how to keep the organ healthy
Say goodbye to dirty cholesterol buildup in veins with THESE 5 home remedies
Cold and cough due to weather transition? Consume THIS Ayurvedic powder to get relief

Title: Afghanistan’s Terror Threat Is Much Bigger Than the Taliban – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
Even if peace is reached with the Taliban, terrorism will remain a serious problem in Afghanistan.
Recent terror attacks in Afghanistan prove thatviolencecontinues unabated even as peace talks progress between the Afghan Taliban and the United States. There is ample evidence that terrorist groups are active in the country even as the United States looks to negotiate an exit. The United Nations Security Council (UNSC)estimatedin June 2019 that there are 8,000 to 10,000 foreign terrorist fighters (FTF) in Afghanistan, out of which 2,500 to 4,000 are affiliated with the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), which is anti-Taliban and al-Qaeda. The UN assesses that the Taliban is the “primary partner” of a variety of terrorist groups: al-Qaeda, the Haqqani Network (Miranshah Shura Taliban), Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (non-ISKP faction), and the Turkestan Islamic Party, “as well as nearly 20 other regionally and globally focused groups” in Afghanistan. Al-Qaeda and ISKP both consider Afghanistan an important region to recuperate and plan their next phase of operations. In case of a weakened central authority and security vacuum in the country, these groups will increase in strength and influence and might shift their operations abroad, posing regional and global security risks.
Al-Qaeda Networks in Afghanistan
According to a UNSCreportpublished in July, al-Qaeda is appearing to make a comeback in Afghanistan under a resurgent Taliban. The July report states in no uncertain terms that al-Qaeda views Afghanistan as a “safe haven for its leadership.” This is understandable, considering that al-Qaeda-Taliban relations were forged in the throes of the Afghan Civil War in the mid-1990s and the two have cooperated together in fighting their common enemies. Furthermore, the former and present al-Qaeda leaders, Osama bin Laden and Ayman al Zawahiri respectively, each gave anoath of allegianceto all three successive Taliban emirs and also recognized each of them as the rightful leader(s) of faithful Muslims (Amir al Mu’minin), a title usually reserved for the caliph of an Islamic Caliphate. Al-Qaeda and the Taliban leadership have publicly and repeatedly stressed theimportant natureof their alliance and called on all Muslims to participate in their jihad. Unsurprisingly, the July UN report also states that al-Qaeda members regularly act as “military and religious instructors” for the Taliban.
Bin Laden called for the gradual re-establishment of a Caliphate and saw the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan under the Taliban as animportant stepin this regard, a view espoused by Zawahiri as well. Though the Taliban have not been in power since 2001, it is closer tore-establishingits emirate today than any point since then and al-Qaeda has been aiding them in this regard.
Afghanistan is an important region for jihadists as the historic name for the wider region, which also includes Pakistan, parts of Iran, India, and Central Asia –Khorasan– is mentioned in a hadith of dubious authenticity that prophesizes a Muslim army emerging from the region to conquer the Middle East, including Jerusalem. Both al-Qaeda and the Islamic State (IS) have capitalized on this prophecy to legitimize their activities in the region.
Al-Qaeda has alsotagged alongwith other regional terrorist groups like LeT, the Haqqani Network, Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), Central Asian groups, and Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan among others, to increase its influence.Reportssuggest that LeT and JeM have shifted some of their activities and presence to Afghanistan (allegedly in response to Indian retaliatory counterterrorism actions in Pakistan). Kunar province remains afocal pointfor FTFs, where LeT reportedly continues to act as a key facilitator in recruitment and financial support activities. Afghan officialsstatedthat approximately 500 LeT members were active in Kunar and Nangarhar provinces and many ISKP members (including its present governor) there were former LeT.
The July UNSC report specifically mentions that al-Qaeda is “keen to strengthen its presence” in Badakhshan province bordering Tajikistan as well as in Paktika province (a Haqqani stronghold bordering North Waziristan, Pakistan). Certain al-Qaeda-affiliated Central Asian terrorist groups operate mainly in Badakhshan. Theycoordinatewith organized crime networks that engage in cross-border narco-trafficking between Afghanistan and Tajikistan, and use those smuggling routes to “infiltrate fighters into Central Asia.”
Central Asian jihadists may intend to execute attacks in their native countries, but the Taliban do not currently allow groups under their influence to do anything that could lead to allegations of them supporting international terrorism rather than being a nationalist force. This situation could change in case of progress in the Afghan peace process, as some of these terrorist groups might declare allegiance to IS and mount international attacks rather than lay down their arms.
Islamic State in Khorasan
The Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP) suffered multiple major military setbacks against U.S., Afghan, and Taliban forces over the last couple of years and has aminimal presencein Afghanistan, being restricted mostly to Nangarhar and Kunar provinces bordering Pakistan. However, it maintains the capability to carry out country-wide attacks as well as taxation, propaganda, and criminal activities. ISKP’s main resilience comes from itsdirect linksto and resources received from IS central in Iraq and Syria even before its inception in 2013.
Fighters in different regions throughout Khorasan, with seven different local leaders,renewedtheir allegiances to IS Caliph Abu Bakr al Baghdadi in an online video in June 2019. Those regions included Afghanistan, Iran, India, Kashmir, and Pakistan. Many of these commanders have been critical of the Taliban becoming part of the mainstream political and diplomatic process and have appealed to Taliban members to stay true to Islam. Hence, there is apprehension that if any peace agreement is signed by the Taliban it would lead to increased recruitment for ISKP. ISKP reportedly has the highest percentage of FTFs among the group’s affiliates. A July 2018 UN reportmentionedthat several foiled attacks in Europe originated from ISKP.
ISKP also has a Central Asian contingent led by Tajik national Sayvaly Shafiev, which currently operates in Nangarhar province in eastern Afghanistan. Shafiev is a major recruitment facilitator for ISKP and is alsobelievedby Tajik authorities to be training sleeper agents to be deployed to Tajikistan. Ever since IS lost its caliphate in the Middle East, there areconcernsthat Tajik and other Central Asian fighters might see Afghanistan as an alternative battleground. Entry into ISKP wasmade easierfor Tajik nationals after it merged with a Tajik terrorist group known as Jamaat Ansarullah in 2017.
Conclusion
The UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistanblamedthe majority of civilian casualties in 2018 (6,980, 63 percent of the total) on anti-government forces, which included the Taliban (37 percent) but also ISKP (20 percent) and others (6 percent). Casualties attributed to anti-government elements rose by 3 percent compared to 2017. Civilian casualties from attacks deliberately targeting civilians by ISKP more than doubled from 843 in 2017 to 1,871 in 2018, including deliberate sectarian-inspired attacks against Shias.
The peace talks with the Taliban ignore a series of fundamental failures. U.S. and Afghan forces alike have been unable to dismantle and disarm violent nonstate actors, much less force them to cooperate with the Afghan government. Without dealing effectively with external powers that provide these groups active and passive support, any meaningful change will remain elusive.
Saurav Sarkar is a Research Associate at Center for Air Power Studies, Western Air Command, New Delhi. He holds a Master’s degree in International Relations from Amity Institute of International Studies, Amity University Uttar Pradesh, Noida, India where he is a Member of its Area Advisory Board.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: Afghanistan Vows to Crush Militants After Deadly Wedding Attack by Islamic State – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
“We will take revenge for every civilian drop of blood,” President Ghani vowed as Kabul mourns 63 dead.
Afghan soldiers inspect a damaged Dubai City wedding hall after an explosion in Kabul, Afghanistan, Aug. 18, 2019.
As Afghanistan mourned the 63 people killed in a suicide bombing at a Kabul wedding , a brother of the groom spoke through tears of his weariness at the bloodshed in the country and the crushing guilt he felt at having to face his neighbors, many of whom lost relatives in the weekend blast.
“Around 20 victims’ families live in our very neighborhood,” said 22-year-old Ramin, whose brother, Mirwais Alami, survived along with his bride, Raihana.
“We don’t know how we should look at them,” said Ramin, who like many Afghans uses only one name. “Maybe they don’t want us, or like us, anymore.”
He was drained after a day of burying the dead, which included the 8-year-old brother of the bride. The bomber detonated his explosives Saturday night in the middle of a dancing crowd in the wedding hall, wounding nearly 200 others. The attack was claimed by the local branch of the Islamic State, Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP).
“We are just tired of this life,” Ramin said of the decades of war and insurgency that Afghanistan has endured. The country marked a subdued 100th Independence Day on Monday, with President Ashraf Ghani vowing to “eliminate” all safe havens for ISKP.
Many outraged Afghans are asking whether an expected deal between the United States and the Taliban to end nearly 18 years of fighting — America’s longest war — will bring peace as ISKP poses a growing threat.
“We don’t care who will make a peace deal. We don’t care who will come into power,” Ramin said. “What we want is peace. We just want peace.”
Overcome with grief, he apologized and said he couldn’t say anything more.
In his own emotional interview, the distraught groom Alami told local broadcasterTOLOnewsthat their lives were devastated by the bombing.
“It would be better if I had died,” he said. “How can I look at people?”
ISKP later said the bomber had targeted a gathering of minority Shiites, whom it views as apostates deserving of death.
A sharply worded Taliban statement questioned why the United States failed to identify the attacker in advance. Another Taliban statement marking Independence Day said to “leave Afghanistan to the Afghans.”
In their nearly yearlong negotiations with Washington, the Taliban want the approximately 20,000 U.S. and allied forces to withdraw from the country. For its part, the United States wants Taliban assurances that Afghanistan — which hosted al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden before 9/11 — will not be a launching pad for global terror attacks.
The U.S. envoy in talks with the Taliban, Zalmay Khalilzad, said Sunday the peace process should be accelerated to help Afghanistan defeat ISKP. That would include intra-Afghan talks on the country’s future, a fraught process that could take years.
But Ghani asserted that the Taliban, whom the United States now hopes will help to curb ISKP’s rise, are just as much to blame for the wedding attack. His government is openly frustrated at being sidelined from the U.S. talks with the insurgent group, which regards the Afghan government as a U.S. puppet.
The Taliban “have created the platform for terrorists” with their own brutal assaults on schools, mosques, and other public places over the years, the president said.
More than 32,000 civilians in Afghanistan have been killed in the past decade, the United Nations said earlier this year. More children were killed last year — 927 — than in any other over the past decade by all actors, the UN said, including in operations against insurgent hideouts carried out by international forces.
Fresh violence was reported Monday as people tried to celebrate the Independence Day holiday, with at least 66 people wounded in explosions in the eastern city of Jalalabad. There was no immediate claim of responsibility in an area where both ISKP and the Taliban are active.
The blasts led to mostly minor injuries, said Noor Ahmad Habibi, deputy spokesman for the Nangarhar provincial governor. And in neighboring Laghman province, governor’s spokesman Asadullah Dawlatzai said a mortar attack by the Taliban slightly wounded six people in the provincial capital, Miterlam.
“We will take revenge for every civilian drop of blood,” Ghani declared. “Our struggle will continue against (IS), we will take revenge and will root them out.” He urged the international community to join those efforts.
Ghani said militants are sheltered in safe havens across the border in Pakistan, whose intelligence service has long been accused of supporting the Taliban. ISKP’s claim of the wedding attack said it was carried out by a Pakistani fighter seeking martyrdom.
After meeting with President Donald Trump last month, Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan insisted he will do his best to persuade the Taliban to negotiate with the Afghan government to resolve the war.
Trump told reporters Sunday he doesn’t want Afghanistan to be a “laboratory for terror” and he described discussions with the Taliban as “good.” He was briefed Friday on the progress of the U.S.-Taliban talks, of which few details have emerged.
Some analysts have warned that Trump’s eagerness to bring at least some troops home ahead of next year’s election could weaken the U.S. stance in the negotiations as the Taliban might see little need to make significant concessions.
In a message marking Afghanistan’s independence and “century of resilience,” U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo called the wedding bombing “an attack against humanity.” It was one of many international condemnations.
By Rahim Faiez for The Associated Press.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: How Islamic State Infiltrated Kabul University – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
Expanding its reach, the Islamic State has aimed recruitment efforts at Afghan universities.
Police patrol the streets after a suicide attack in front of the Kabul university in Kabul, March 21, 2018.
In September 2018, Ghulam Abas, coach of Maiwand wrestling club in the Dasht-e-Barchi neighborhood of Kabul, was training athletes when an Islamic State suicide bomber opened fire on the guard. As he rushed to open the emergency door, the bomb denoted in the club, which was packed with athletes. Abas lost his left arm but survived; 20 of his young trainees were killed and 70 others wounded.
In July 2019, Afghanistan’s spy agency, the National Directorate of Security (NDS), arrested four suspects on charges of designing the attack on the wrestling club. The suspects were not from Afghanistan’s rural areas — they were lecturers and students at the country’s largest university: Kabul University.
“We do not expect students of Kabul University to target our club,” said Abas. “Students of Kabul University are expected to build a bright future for the country and run the country tomorrow.”
Ghulam Abas, the 51-year-old coach of a wrestling club in Kabul, lost his arm in a terrorist attack allegedly masterminded by Kabul University Students. Photo by Ezzatullah Mehrdad.
Amid raging insurgency in the country, people pin their hope on the partially U.S.-funded Kabul University to educate a liberal and open-minded generation. But the newly emerged Islamic State (IS) in Afghanistan has infiltrated the country’s oldest university to recruit fighters from among students, an issue that rings alarm bells about the expansion of the Islamic State amid a possible peace deal between the United States and the Taliban.
The Islamic State, or Daesh, has recruited “many students” from Kabul University and sent them to its stronghold in eastern Nangarhar province for training, said one of the students who was arrested in a recorded confession released by NDS.
The NDS arrested Mubasher Muslimyar, an Islamic law lecturer at Kabul University, two Kabul University graduates, and one relative of Muslimyar in July. Earlier, the spy agency had detained Zaher Dai and Maroof Rasikh, two Islamic law lecturers at Kabul University, on charge of recruiting students for the Islamic State.
Ahmad Tariq, one of the detained students, confessed to NDS investigators that Muslimyar initially attempted to convert students to Salafism, a fundamentalist branch of Sunni Islam, before encouraging them to join Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), the Afghanistan-based branch of the terrorist group.
The spy agency blamed Tariq and Ahmad Farouq, two university graduates, for attacks on Maiwand Wrestling club, a bus carrying government employees and Hamid Karzai International Airport in the Afghan capital, Kabul.
“Many of the divided and unhappy Taliban commanders left the Taliban group following division over the group leadership after Mullah Omar, emir of the group, died in 2013,” said Khadem Hussain Karimi, author of a book about the Islamic State and Afghanistan’s Shiites. The “Pakistan army pushed extremist groups out of its soil” and together they formed ISKP in 2014.
The United States and the Afghan government were unable to eliminate affiliates of ISKP and its suicide bombers carried out deadly attacks across the country. ISKP still controls a swath of eastern and northeastern Afghanistan and the group is expanding its footprint.
“The first priority of [ISKP] was of course establishing a sufficiently solid presence in pockets of Khorasan, on which to start building a more sophisticated structure and from where to spread,” wrote Antonio Giustozzi in his bookThe Islamic State in Khorasan. The group was “a largely alien entity that needs to somehow disembark and gradually establish roots and organize itself.”
To expand its reach, the Islamic State targeted Afghan universities across the country, including Kabul University as well as Nangarhar University in eastern Afghanistan. The academic institutions proved to be vulnerable for exploitation by the Islamic State.
Ramin Kamangar, a researcher based in Kabul, said that historically many extremist groups had deep roots in Afghan society. The academic curriculum was designed in such a way that every group could manipulate academic textbooks, including Sharia law textbooks, which are mandatory courses for every faculty across the country.
“The textbooks of Islamic law are not academic,” Kamangar said. “They present that Islam is the best religion and speak in the form of ideological black and white.”
Kamangar conducted research about religious radicalization in Afghanistan’s higher education system with the Afghan Institute for Strategic Studies. The research found that half of 373 students surveyed at three major Afghan universities — Kabul University, Herat University, and Nangarhar University — supported an Islamic Emirate or Caliphate as political system.
About 20 percent of the students were opposed to secularism or living alongside religious groups other than their own. Three-quarters of the students supported the idea of proselytizing Islam globally.
Kamangar believes that the educational system does not encourage critical thinking and failed to produce graduates who were able to think and understand their surroundings independently — and therefore, they were vulnerable to recruitment by extremist groups, particularly the Islamic State.
Graffiti written on the wall of Kabul University reads “Long Live Daesh (Islamic State).” Photo courtesy of social media.
While the U.S.-Taliban peace talks make progress and U.S. President Donald Trump impatiently waits for an exit from Afghanistan, the Islamic State enjoys space to recruit Afghan youths to wage a new episode of war in the country and in the region.
In the eighth round of U.S. negotiations with the Taliban group in Doha, Qatar, U.S. special envoy Khalilzad said that the two sides made “excellent progress” over a deal with the Taliban. Their teams are reportedly working on details and implementation of the deal.
The Islamic State threatens to complicate any peace deal. ISKP “also had a strategic aim of ultimately replacing the Taliban, TTP [Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan] and other insurgent groups in Khorasan, establishing its own monopoly as it has been trying to do in Syria and Iraq,” wrote Guistozzi. He quoted an Islamic State fighter as saying: “If Taliban made peace with the Kabul government, maybe a lot of Taliban would join us.”
Razaq Modaber, a 23-year old, who graduated from Kabul University last year, says Islamist extremist groups have the upper hand everywhere, including Kabul University. The Islamic State, particularly, could have rooted deeply among students.
“One year ago, they [the suspects detained by NDS] were students of economy faculty of Kabul University,” said Modaber. “It is hard to trust my classmates and other students.”
One of many students who was recruited by the Islamic State was 23-year-old Mohammad Rafi. In 2015, Wali Mohammad Darwazi, father of Rafi, searched for his son after Rafi vanished with several former classmates from Kabul University.
Darwazi was able to connect by phone with one of his son’s classmates, who was in Syria, fighting for the Islamic State. “Rafi has been martyred,” he told Darwazi, saying that Rafi and other Afghans had been killed in a U.S. coalition airstrike near Baiji, Iraq, in May 2015.
According to Rafi’s relatives, the computer science student and soccer lover enrolled in an Islamic culture course at Kabul University and began to grow more religious. Rafi attended mosques in two upscale neighborhoods of Kabul and grew a beard. His parents believed that some Islamic lecturers at Kabul University identified Rafi as a potential recruit and radicalized him in sessions after classes or after mosque prayers.
“He was influenced by Afghans who studied in Arab countries,” Darwazi told theWashington Postin 2015. “They misused his innocence.”
Ezzatullah Mehrdad is ajournalist based in Kabul, Afghanistan. He tweets @EzzatMehrdad.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: 
	Civilian casualties at a seven-year low in Afghanistan - The Hindu

To enjoy additional benefits
CONNECT WITH US
Published- August 28, 2019 04:40 pm IST
An Afghan woman cries as she touches a banner displaying photographs of victims of the wedding hall bombing.
In Afghanistan, though the number of civilian casualties was at a seven year low in the first half of 2019, the proportion of deaths and injuries due to the national military and allied international forces have increased significantly. The share of casualties due to terrorist attacks have fallen.

The 100 blocks below represent the 3,812 civilian casualties between January and June 2019 due to various groups. The blocks are further broken down to groups responsible and the situation in which the civilians were killed/injured.
image/svg+xml1234Proportion killed/injured byanti-Afghanistan governmentforces in 2019Most casualties were due toTalibanattacks, followed byDaesh/ISKP*Most casualties were due toAfghanmilitary,followed byglobal forcesThe proportion fell by 15 % pointscompared to Jan-June 2018The proportion of casualties due toTaliban fell by 4% points while that ofthe Daesh/ISKP dropped by 7% pointscompared to Jan-June 2018The proportion of casualties dueto global forces (mostly the U.S.)increased by 10% pointscompared to Jan-June 2018The proportion increased by 17 % pointscompared to Jan-June 2018Proportion killed/injured bypro- Afghanistan governmentforces in 201952%38%18%12%11%37%
ISKP refers to Islamic State of Iraq and Levant - Khorasan Province
Though the casualties due to suicide attacks targeted at civilians fell in the first half of 2019, the August 17 massacre by the Daesh/ ISKP which killed at least 80 people in Kabul will increase the share of casualties due to terrorist organisations.
Published- August 28, 2019 04:40 pm IST
Afghanistan/Islamic State/Data Point
Copyright© 2024, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
BACK TO TOP
Terms & conditions|Institutional Subscriber
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by ourcommunity guidelinesfor posting your comments.
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.

Title: Why Are the Taliban Reluctant to Declare a Ceasefire? – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
It’s not only a negotiating tactic. There’s real fear on the Taliban’s end about what happens after the guns go silent.
As the Afghan reconciliation process advances toward a deal for a phased withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan that may likely pave way for direct talks between the Taliban and the Afghan government, the militia’s leadership is still reluctant to end hostilities by declaring an all-encompassing ceasefire.
Last week, a document billed as a draft agreement was leaked to media in Kabul. Key points include the withdrawal of U.S. forces, the release of some 13,000 Taliban prisoners over the course of two months, assurances from the Taliban that Afghan soil will not be used by terrorists for staging attacks against any other country, and the start of talks with the Afghan government, which the Taliban have so far refused to sit down with.
Left unaddressed so far is a ceasefire: a commitment that the Taliban will stop attacking Afghan security forces and public places alongside putting an end to attacks on U.S. troops. And such an end to hostilities is exactly what the average Afghan looks forward to.Last year was the deadliest yet for civilians in the 18-year-old war, with 3,804 dead and another 7,000 wounded.
The cessation of hostilities, however, seems to be a tricky subject with the Taliban leadership. Judging by their own statements and those of U.S. peace envoy Zalmay Khalilzad, one may assume that a complete ceasefire with the Afghan government, if it comes at all, lies at the far end of the road leading to the final peace agreement.
It was expected that the Taliban would announce a temporary end to fighting on the Muslim holy festival of Eid as a gesture of goodwill. However, the group continued to launch attacks against Afghan security forces despite the high hopes for an approaching settlement. The Taliban reluctance to declare a ceasefire, though, is understandable for several reasons.
First, many Taliban militants did not return to join the fighting after the first ceasefire with the Afghan government over a year ago. That was the first time since the overthrow of Taliban regime that the militants freely mixed with their compatriots. They received hugs, posed for selfies, and some were even presented with flowers by common citizens in the streets of Kabul and other major cities. Fearing a repetition of the same experience, Taliban leaders will not come to a complete ceasefire until they get what they want from an expected peace deal.
Second, the majority of the Taliban foot soldiers and their mid-ranking commanders have been brainwashed by ideologues. Over the years, they have been told they are performing a “sacred” duty by targeting Afghan security forces and Afghan officials. Applying the brakes to their “jihad” spree and ordering them to disarm may force many among the hardliners to defect to other groups, especially the Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP), the Taliban’s main competitor and adversary in Afghanistan.
Third, announcing a ceasefire without getting their preferred deal may also send a signal of weakness to the Taliban adversaries not only on the battlefield — such as the ISKP — but also in the political sphere.
Besides being engaged in bloody fighting with the ISKP in recent past, the Taliban have a history of fighting with the then-Northern Alliance as well as the Shia-Hazara community in the 1990s. The Taliban’s strength lies in their monopoly over violence, be that targeting the Afghan security forces or civilians. A ceasefire will take away that monopoly, and the advantage may shift to their ISKP adversary, a group whose agenda, unlike that of the Taliban, expands beyond the geographical borders of Afghanistan.
On a more basic level, it is precisely the Taliban’s violence and callous attacks that forced the United States and the Afghan government to give them more concessions at the negotiating table. One major reason for the Taliban not announcing a ceasefire, then, is not to lose the position of strength. Once they disarm their soldiers, the Taliban leadership will not draw more concessions at the negotiating table from their Afghan counterparts.
Fourth, a ceasefire may also cost the Taliban their foreign backing. Militarily, Taliban regional backers see the militia as a strategic partner to secure their interests in Afghanistan through their fighting power. Once the fighting is stopped, the Taliban will lose importance for their backers.
Fifth, and equally important, is ensuring the continuous flow of funding for insurgent operations. The militia gathers huge sums of money from local taxation, protection money from poppy farmers and drug dealers, as well as transactions from their sympathizers abroad, mostly Gulf countries, to run their operations. Once the Taliban put an end to the so-called holy war by entering into a ceasefire agreement and hand over areas under their control to the Afghan government, funds will cease to fill their coffers. None of the Taliban leadership is willing to let the huge sums of money go without being fully settled down in the seat of power in Kabul with maximum resources in their hands.
Sixth, over the years, the Taliban knack for fighting and carrying out complex operations have humbled the Afghan security forces in the remote districts, if not in the cities. The Taliban propaganda machine effectively highlights their victories, albeit in the remotest parts of Afghanistan, over the ill-equipped and ill-trained Afghan forces to impress the common Afghans. The Taliban’s terror tactics have not only sapped the trust of common Afghans in the strength of their government and security forces, but also affected the troops’ fighting capability. Calling a ceasefire, from the Taliban perspective, may provide breathing space that lets the Afghan government and its security forces review their strategies and regain their strength.
Finally, revenge-seeking is not uncommon in Afghan society, despite a genuine desire for lasting peace. The Taliban fear of revenge by the victims of their violence over the past 18 years is another factor keeping the militia’s leadership from accepting a permanent ceasefire.
Besides committing atrocities against the security forces and common Afghans, the Taliban also targeted powerful men and warlords during the past 18 years. Since the same people have gained strength, thanks to widespread corruption, since the Taliban’s removal from power, Taliban leaders may not escape revenge once their foot soldiers stop fighting.
For skeptical observers, the Taliban’s unwillingness to call a ceasefire is a trick to strengthen their grip over power once the U.S. forces withdraw from Afghanistan. But a different look may also reveal the fear factor that keeps the militia’s leadership from disengaging their fighters. More efforts with trust building may help achieve lasting peace in the post-withdrawal Afghanistan.
In a more promising sign, without announcing it, the Taliban in practice observed a ceasefire on August 11 and 12, the two days of the Muslim holy festival of Eid. The leadership had directed the militants to “protect” the Afghan people during Eid. But they stopped short of publicly calling it a ceasefire.
Daud Khattak is Senior Editor for Radio Free Europe Radio Liberty’s Pashto languageMashaal Radio. Before joining RFE/RL, Khattak worked forThe News Internationaland London’sSunday Timesin Peshawar, Pakistan. He has also worked for Pajhwok Afghan News in Kabul. The views expressed here are the author’s own and do not represent those of RFE/RL.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: ISIS aims for Afghanistan expansion as US and Taliban work towards peace | The National
Asia
August 20, 2019

Title: US, UN Condemn IS-Claimed Attack on Afghan Media Workers
Print
The United States and the United Nations have condemned an Islamic State-claimed deadly bombing against a minibus transporting media professionals in Afghanistan.
Afghan officials said the bus was carrying staff of privately-run Khorshid TV in Kabul on Sunday when a bomb placed inside the vehicle went off. The blast killed two passersby and injured three employees of the television station headquartered in the capital city.
“I condemn the latest senseless attack on media professionals and send my deepest condolences to the victims and their families,” the U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan, John Bass, tweeted Monday. “Attacks on civilians and media serve no purpose. All sides must focus on peace and the future of Afghanistan,” he added.
In a separate statement, the U.N. mission in the country denounced the attack. Islamic State said in a statement its regional branch, Khorasan Province, or ISKP, plotted the violence.
Militant groups have routinely targeted journalists in the war-ravaged country. So far this year, seven Afghan journalists have been killed.
A Paris-based media watchdog said that 15 journalists were killed in the country in 2018, making it the world’s deadliest place for media workers followed by Syria.
A double bombing in Kabul in April of last year killed nine journalists, including six staff of Radio Free Europe. That attack was also claimed by Islamic State, saying it was aimed at media workers.



Title: US, UN Condemn IS-Claimed Attack on Afghan Media Workers
By Ayaz Gul August 5, 2019
The United States and the United Nations have condemned an Islamic State-claimed deadly bombing against a minibus transporting media professionals in Afghanistan.
Afghan officials said the bus was carrying staff of privately-run Khorshid TV in Kabul on Sunday when a bomb placed inside the vehicle went off. The blast killed two passersby and injured three employees of the television station headquartered in the capital city.
"I condemn the latest senseless attack on media professionals and send my deepest condolences to the victims and their families," the U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan, John Bass, tweeted Monday. "Attacks on civilians and media serve no purpose. All sides must focus on peace and the future of Afghanistan," he added.
In a separate statement, the U.N. mission in the country denounced the attack. Islamic State said in a statement its regional branch, Khorasan Province, or ISKP, plotted the violence.
Militant groups have routinely targeted journalists in the war-ravaged country. So far this year, seven Afghan journalists have been killed.
A Paris-based media watchdog said that 15 journalists were killed in the country in 2018, making it the world's deadliest place for media workers followed by Syria.
A double bombing in Kabul in April of last year killed nine journalists, including six staff of Radio Free Europe. That attack was also claimed by Islamic State, saying it was aimed at media workers.



Title: Khalilzad Hails ‘Excellent Progress’ in Talks With the Taliban – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
Meanwhile, the UN mission in Afghanistan says civilian casualties spiked in July as violence continues.
After three days of talks, U.S. Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad left Doha, Qatar on a pre-scheduled trip to New Delhi hailing “excellent progress” made in talks with the Taliban.
A Taliban official told the Associated Press on Tuesday that the two sides have resolved differences in peace talks over U.S. troop withdrawal from Afghanistan.
In New Zealand, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenbergsaid on August 6, “We now see a real chance for peace in Afghanistan; we are closer to a peace deal than ever before.”
Meanwhile, according to theUN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan(UNAMA) civilian casualties hit a record high in July. Escalating violence, UNAMA said, led to the highest rate of civilian casualties (deaths and injuries) since May 2017 — upward of 1,500 in July alone.
“UNAMA documented an increase through July in the number of disproportionate and indiscriminate Taliban attacks in urban areas against Afghan military and security objects and personnel,” the UN mission said in a statement. The UN mission said the rise in civilian casualties was driven by anti-government elements, including the Taliban and Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), but that there remained “concerning levels” of casualties caused by pro-government forces.
The Taliban have kept up a near-daily rate of deadly attacks, despite holding several rounds of peace talks with Khalilzad since his appointment almost a year ago.
Technical teams will continue negotiations in Doha this week with the two sides looking toward an agreement by September 1. Much of the negotiating has focused on a small set of priorities: a withdrawal of U.S. troops and a pledge from the Taliban to not provide safe haven to terrorist groups, to be followed by a ceasefire and intra-Afghan peace talks.
As theWashington Postreported last week, the agreement under discussion would trade a U.S. troop withdrawal for the Taliban entering negotiations with the Afghan government. To date, the Taliban have refused to negotiate directly with the government of Ashraf Ghani, calling it a “puppet” of the Americans. Of the over 20,000 coalition troops in Afghanistan, roughly 14,000 are from the United States, the remainder from other NATO countries. The agreement, officials say, would cut U.S. troop levels to between 8,000 and 9,000. It’s important to note that such a move would bring troop levels back to where they were when Donald Trump assumed the presidency.
The Taliban now control roughly half of Afghanistan and are at their strongest since 2001, when the U.S.-led invasion toppled their government that had harbored al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.
Afghanistan’s thrice-delayed presidential election — originally scheduled for April 20, then pushed to July 20 — is now set for September 28. The Taliban has called the election a “sham,” urged Afghans to boycott the polls, and warned that those attending rallies “could become potential targets.”
With reporting from the Associated Press’ Cara Anna and Kathy Gannon.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: Trump wants US troops out of Afghanistan. The biggest winner may be ISIS's surging, bloodthirsty faction there | Business Insider India
Alejandro Licea/US Army/ReutersA US soldier assigned to the Headquarters and Headquarters Battalion, 1st Armored Division watches as a UH-60 Blackhawk Helicopter prepares to land during an advise and assistance mission in southeastern Afghanistan, August 4, 2019.
Alejandro Licea/US Army/Reuters
A US soldier assigned to the Headquarters and Headquarters Battalion, 1st Armored Division watches as a UH-60 Blackhawk Helicopter prepares to land during an advise and assistance mission in southeastern Afghanistan, August 4, 2019.

The Islamic State-Khorasan (ISIS-K) is a growing threat in Afghanistan and parts of Pakistan, staging suicide attacks on civilians and local security forces, as well as battling the Taliban for supremacy in Afghanistan.
There is even concern among national security experts that ISIS-K could launch attacks against the West from its position in Afghanistan.
The US is negotiating with the Taliban to withdraw troops from Afghanistan after 18 years of war; it's also trusting that the Taliban will be able to keep ISIS-K from growing and launching deadlier attacks in the region - or against the Western democracies - which experts say the Taliban is unlikely to be able to do without outside support.
After the US began to withdraw troops from Syria and diplomatic support from Iraq,ISIS began to regroup in those countries - changing tactics and fundraising sources to take advantage of its new landscape.
As troop withdrawal talks between the Taliban and the US drag on, ISIS-K is becoming a pressing threat.
Here's what we know about the extremist group wreaking havoc on the lives of Afghans and complicating US troop withdrawal.
Advertisement
POPULAR CATEGORIES

Title: Latest News | Breaking News | Audio News | Kerala News | India News | World News | Politics | Movies | Travel | Cartoons | Photogallery | Kerala Kaumudi Online
OR


Title: The Trump Administration Must Remain Committed to Defeating ISIS in Afghanistan | The Heritage Foundation
Frequently Searched
Top Issues
Political Thought
Domestic Policy
National Security
Government Spending
International
Energy & Environment
Legal and Judicial
Culture
Economy
Summary
The U.S. must ensure its actions do not allow Afghanistan to become even more of a safe haven for terrorists than it currently is.
ISIS’s Afghan affiliate, ISIS-Khorasan, has carried out attacks in Afghanistan and Pakistan, been linked to attacks in Europe, and likely aspires to hit the U.S.
An Afghanistan peace deal must ensure the U.S. is able to conduct counterterrorism operations against such groups and meet U.S. security objectives.
Select a Section1/0
Part of President Donald Trump’s campaign pledge to defeat ISIS was fulfilled in March 2019 when the last Syrian village under the terrorist group’s control fell and its caliphate crumbled.
However, a comprehensive defeat of ISIS involves more than liberating territory that it once controlled in Iraq and Syria. ISIS now has affiliates spread throughout the globe, with one of its most active in Afghanistan. ISIS-Khorasan (ISIS-K), which numbers thousands of members in eastern Afghanistan, has been linked to an attack in Europe. Some U.S. officials fear it may now attempt to strike in the United States.
While the U.S. is seeking to withdraw its military presence in Afghanistan, it must ensure that the country does not become even more of a safe haven for terrorists than it currently is. It must ensure that the U.S. has the capacity to carry out operations against terrorist groups that threaten U.S. interests, such as like ISIS-K.
When discussing the terrorist threat emerging from Afghanistan, much of the focus is inevitably on al-Qaeda. This is understandable: Al-Qaeda used Afghanistan as a base for planning the September 11, 2001, attacks on the U.S.
However, the range of terrorist groups operating in Afghanistan goes far beyond al-Qaeda. The U.S. government has demonstrated that over 20 foreign terrorist organizationsREFand organizations that have provided support to terrorists are active in Afghanistan.REF
These include ISIS-K, which was formed in January 2015. Initially, a terrorist called Hafiz Saeed Khan was hand picked by ISIS emir Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi to lead the operation in Afghanistan.REFBefore he pledged loyalty to Baghdadi, Khan was a commander in Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan, the group responsible for a failed car bomb plot in Times Square in May 2010 and whose ranks initially helped form ISIS-K.REFKhan was joined by Abdul Rauf, a former Guantanamo Bay detainee and Taliban member who defected to Baghdadi’s cause. Both Rauf and Khan were subsequently killed in U.S. drone strikes: Rauf in February 2015 and Khan in July 2016.
Despite this, ISIS-K’s ranks have swelled until today it has an estimated 2,500–5,000 fighters.REFWhile many recruits are from South and Central Asia, ISIS-K has the largest foreign-fighter presence of all ISIS affiliates.REFThese foreign fighters have included North Caucassians, Europeans, and North Africans.
ISIS-K largely operates in eastern Afghanistan, primarily in Nangarhar and Kunar, two provinces close to the border of Pakistan.REFIt also has a presence in neighboring provinces and has even launched attacks in Kabul and neighboring Pakistan.REF
In 2018, ISIS-K caused 20 percent of civilian casualties in Afghanistan.REFISIS-K most commonly targets Shiites, but it has attacked a range of other targets from NATO personnel to the Taliban.
In an April 2017 attack linked to ISIS-K, Rakhmat Akilov killed five and injured 10 in a truck attack in Stockholm, Sweden. Originally from Uzbekistan, Akilov was in contact with Abu Osama Noraki, an ISIS recruiter based in Afghanistan, during the planning, execution, and aftermath of the attack.REFNoraki is suspected of recruiting ethnic Tajiks, such as Akilov, via Zello, a smartphone walkie-talkie app.REF
General Kenneth F. McKenzie Jr., commander of U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM), stated in June 2019 that ISIS-K also “has aspirations to attack the United States.”REFHowever, General McKenzie believed ISIS-K would struggle to develop the capacity to do so as long as the U.S. exerted sufficient pressure on the group.
More gloomily, one U.S. official commented in the same month that ISIS-K posed “the most near-term threat to our homelands from Afghanistan” and future attacks in the U.S. and Europe linked to it were “just a matter of time.”REF
In August 2018, when speaking as CENTCOM commander, General Joseph L. Votel commented, “ISIS-K is not a popular insurgency in Afghanistan. Everybody is against them.”REF
Certainly, the U.S. has carried out a series of strikes against ISIS-K. In April 2017, the U.S. dropped the most powerful conventional bomb in its arsenal (the GBU-43/B Massive Ordnance Air Blast) on an ISIS position in Nangarhar.REFFurthermore, according to the Long War Journal, the U.S. has killed four ISIS-K emirs. The most recent was Abu Saad Orakzai in an August 2018 air strike on Nangarhar.REF
The Taliban has had conflicts with ISIS-K. For example, a U.N. assessment stated that a July 2018 offensive by the Taliban against ISIS-K in Jowzjan province resulted in the death of 200 ISIS-K members with around 270 fighters surrendering to the Taliban or Afghan government forces.REF
While ISIS-K and the Taliban share a commitment to battling the U.S. presence in Afghanistan, there is some fluidity among the various groups in Afghanistan. For example, ISIS has previously recruited from the Taliban.REFIt has also peeled away support from other terrorist groups operating in Afghanistan, such as the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan and Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan.REFIf the U.S., Afghan government, and the Taliban negotiate a peace accord, some Taliban irreconcilables who want to continue the fight may align with the global jihadism of ISIS-K.REF
The U.S. government should:
ISIS-K presents an ongoing regional threat. It has grown in recent years, carried out a series of attacks in Afghanistan, been linked to attacks in Europe, and caused some in the U.S. government and military to worry that it wants to do the same in America. These are legitimate concerns. The best way to prevent them from coming to pass is to ensure that, even as the U.S. withdraws from Afghanistan, it can continue to conduct counterterrorism operations there.
Robin Simcoxis Margaret Thatcher Fellow in the Margaret Thatcher Center for Freedom, of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for National Security and Foreign Policy, at The Heritage Foundation.
Former Margaret Thatcher Fellow
COMMENTARY2 min read
COMMENTARY3 min read
COMMENTARY4 min read
Subscribe to email updates
Follow us
© 2024, The Heritage Foundation

Title: Why ISIS bombed Kabul wedding and how it's eyeing the Afghan peace talks
New Delhi:The dreaded terror group Islamic State, or ISIS, has sent a loud message to the world through the Kabul wedding blast, raising hard questions on the credibility of the US-led quadripartite peace talks which is in its concluding phase now.On Sunday, the ISIS claimed responsibility for bombing a wedding reception in Kabul that left 63 people dead a night before, in what turned out to be one of Afghanistan’s worst terror attacks in the recent past.The claim led Afghan President Ashraf Ghanito vowto “eliminate” ISIS bases across the country during the country’s 100th Independence Day celebrations Monday.Show Full Article
New Delhi:The dreaded terror group Islamic State, or ISIS, has sent a loud message to the world through the Kabul wedding blast, raising hard questions on the credibility of the US-led quadripartite peace talks which is in its concluding phase now.
On Sunday, the ISIS claimed responsibility for bombing a wedding reception in Kabul that left 63 people dead a night before, in what turned out to be one of Afghanistan’s worst terror attacks in the recent past.The claim led Afghan President Ashraf Ghanito vowto “eliminate” ISIS bases across the country during the country’s 100th Independence Day celebrations Monday.Show Full Article
On Sunday, the ISIS claimed responsibility for bombing a wedding reception in Kabul that left 63 people dead a night before, in what turned out to be one of Afghanistan’s worst terror attacks in the recent past.
The claim led Afghan President Ashraf Ghanito vowto “eliminate” ISIS bases across the country during the country’s 100th Independence Day celebrations Monday.Show Full Article
The claim led Afghan President Ashraf Ghanito vowto “eliminate” ISIS bases across the country during the country’s 100th Independence Day celebrations Monday.
In a speech to his nation, Ghani stated a “firm commitment to fight against Daesh (Islamic State group) and other terrorist networks until they are utterly smashed”.“We will take revenge for every civilian drop of blood… Our struggle will continue against (ISIS), we will take revenge and will root them out,” said Ghani.The Taliban, which is a part of the peace talks, questioned the failure of the US in pre-empting Saturday’s attack. In astrongly-worded statement, it said “leave Afghanistan to the Afghans”.With anger mounting in Afghanistan over the latest ISIS attack, ThePrint tracks the group’s rise and objectives in the conflict-besieged country.Rise of ISIS in AfghanistanIna reportto the Congress, the US Department of Defence in June said the US efforts against ISIS-K in Afghanistan are part of the global endeavour to defeat ISIS.ISIS-K — Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant – Khorasan Province — is a wing of the terror group that has become active in Afghanistan and Pakistan in the last five years.“ISIS-K poses a threat not only to Afghanistan, but also to the West, which it continuously seeks to target for terrorist activity. In addition to the internal threats, powerful regional actors surround Afghanistan. These powers have varied interests in the political, military, and economic future of Afghanistan,” the report said.It added that the ISIS-K maintains the capability “to conduct mass casualty attacks with the intent to weaken public support for the Afghan Government and the Taliban”. The group continues to “evade, counter, and recover from sustained CT (counter-terrorism) and combat pressure to maintain its territorial safe-haven in eastern Afghanistan, from which it plans attacks and spreads its ideology to displace al-Qa’ida and the Taliban as the predominant regional militant group”, the report said.TitledEnhancing Security and Stability in Afghanistan, the report noted that ISIS-K remains limited to South and Central Asia.It also highlighted that the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region remains a sanctuary for various groups, including the Taliban and its component “Haqqani Network (HQN), al-Qa’ida core (AQ), al-Qa’ida in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT), Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), ISIS-K, and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU)”.Terrorist sanctuaries on both sides of the border present security challenges for Afghanistan and Pakistan and pose a threat to regional security and stability.The ISIS in Afghanistan is mainly located near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. It has grown from a modicum of mid-level Taliban commanders about five years ago,reportedThe GuardianMonday.“If the Taliban stop fighting the US and the Afghan government, ISIS will aim to take over the role of the main opposition force in the country, gathering to its banners all the malcontents and rejectionists any deal would inevitably create. They would also seek to attract the support of the Taliban’s erstwhile supporters, inside and outside Afghanistan,” the report claimed.Also read:Islamic State, al Qaeda hunker down to rebuild in weaker countriesThe Afghan peace talksThe ISIS is slowly building up the momentum in Afghanistan as the year-long US-led peace talks near a conclusion. Although it is clear that the talks will not be concluded by the 1-September deadline set by the Trump administration, it is nevertheless progressing fast.In the aftermath of the Saturday bombings, the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad said the Afghan Peace Process has to be “accelerated” including intra-Afghan negotiations.“Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS,” Khalilzad said in a tweet.We must accelerate the#AfghanPeaceProcessincluding intra-Afghan negotiations. Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS.— U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad (@US4AfghanPeace)August 18, 2019Inan interviewtoThe New York Times, Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, an Islamist cleric from Pakistan, who has been jailed in Pakistan and in the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, claimed to have played a role in establishing the ISIS network in Afghanistan.According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
In a speech to his nation, Ghani stated a “firm commitment to fight against Daesh (Islamic State group) and other terrorist networks until they are utterly smashed”.
“We will take revenge for every civilian drop of blood… Our struggle will continue against (ISIS), we will take revenge and will root them out,” said Ghani.The Taliban, which is a part of the peace talks, questioned the failure of the US in pre-empting Saturday’s attack. In astrongly-worded statement, it said “leave Afghanistan to the Afghans”.With anger mounting in Afghanistan over the latest ISIS attack, ThePrint tracks the group’s rise and objectives in the conflict-besieged country.Rise of ISIS in AfghanistanIna reportto the Congress, the US Department of Defence in June said the US efforts against ISIS-K in Afghanistan are part of the global endeavour to defeat ISIS.ISIS-K — Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant – Khorasan Province — is a wing of the terror group that has become active in Afghanistan and Pakistan in the last five years.“ISIS-K poses a threat not only to Afghanistan, but also to the West, which it continuously seeks to target for terrorist activity. In addition to the internal threats, powerful regional actors surround Afghanistan. These powers have varied interests in the political, military, and economic future of Afghanistan,” the report said.It added that the ISIS-K maintains the capability “to conduct mass casualty attacks with the intent to weaken public support for the Afghan Government and the Taliban”. The group continues to “evade, counter, and recover from sustained CT (counter-terrorism) and combat pressure to maintain its territorial safe-haven in eastern Afghanistan, from which it plans attacks and spreads its ideology to displace al-Qa’ida and the Taliban as the predominant regional militant group”, the report said.TitledEnhancing Security and Stability in Afghanistan, the report noted that ISIS-K remains limited to South and Central Asia.It also highlighted that the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region remains a sanctuary for various groups, including the Taliban and its component “Haqqani Network (HQN), al-Qa’ida core (AQ), al-Qa’ida in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT), Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), ISIS-K, and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU)”.Terrorist sanctuaries on both sides of the border present security challenges for Afghanistan and Pakistan and pose a threat to regional security and stability.The ISIS in Afghanistan is mainly located near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. It has grown from a modicum of mid-level Taliban commanders about five years ago,reportedThe GuardianMonday.“If the Taliban stop fighting the US and the Afghan government, ISIS will aim to take over the role of the main opposition force in the country, gathering to its banners all the malcontents and rejectionists any deal would inevitably create. They would also seek to attract the support of the Taliban’s erstwhile supporters, inside and outside Afghanistan,” the report claimed.Also read:Islamic State, al Qaeda hunker down to rebuild in weaker countriesThe Afghan peace talksThe ISIS is slowly building up the momentum in Afghanistan as the year-long US-led peace talks near a conclusion. Although it is clear that the talks will not be concluded by the 1-September deadline set by the Trump administration, it is nevertheless progressing fast.In the aftermath of the Saturday bombings, the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad said the Afghan Peace Process has to be “accelerated” including intra-Afghan negotiations.“Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS,” Khalilzad said in a tweet.We must accelerate the#AfghanPeaceProcessincluding intra-Afghan negotiations. Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS.— U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad (@US4AfghanPeace)August 18, 2019Inan interviewtoThe New York Times, Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, an Islamist cleric from Pakistan, who has been jailed in Pakistan and in the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, claimed to have played a role in establishing the ISIS network in Afghanistan.According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
“We will take revenge for every civilian drop of blood… Our struggle will continue against (ISIS), we will take revenge and will root them out,” said Ghani.
The Taliban, which is a part of the peace talks, questioned the failure of the US in pre-empting Saturday’s attack. In astrongly-worded statement, it said “leave Afghanistan to the Afghans”.With anger mounting in Afghanistan over the latest ISIS attack, ThePrint tracks the group’s rise and objectives in the conflict-besieged country.Rise of ISIS in AfghanistanIna reportto the Congress, the US Department of Defence in June said the US efforts against ISIS-K in Afghanistan are part of the global endeavour to defeat ISIS.ISIS-K — Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant – Khorasan Province — is a wing of the terror group that has become active in Afghanistan and Pakistan in the last five years.“ISIS-K poses a threat not only to Afghanistan, but also to the West, which it continuously seeks to target for terrorist activity. In addition to the internal threats, powerful regional actors surround Afghanistan. These powers have varied interests in the political, military, and economic future of Afghanistan,” the report said.It added that the ISIS-K maintains the capability “to conduct mass casualty attacks with the intent to weaken public support for the Afghan Government and the Taliban”. The group continues to “evade, counter, and recover from sustained CT (counter-terrorism) and combat pressure to maintain its territorial safe-haven in eastern Afghanistan, from which it plans attacks and spreads its ideology to displace al-Qa’ida and the Taliban as the predominant regional militant group”, the report said.TitledEnhancing Security and Stability in Afghanistan, the report noted that ISIS-K remains limited to South and Central Asia.It also highlighted that the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region remains a sanctuary for various groups, including the Taliban and its component “Haqqani Network (HQN), al-Qa’ida core (AQ), al-Qa’ida in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT), Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), ISIS-K, and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU)”.Terrorist sanctuaries on both sides of the border present security challenges for Afghanistan and Pakistan and pose a threat to regional security and stability.The ISIS in Afghanistan is mainly located near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. It has grown from a modicum of mid-level Taliban commanders about five years ago,reportedThe GuardianMonday.“If the Taliban stop fighting the US and the Afghan government, ISIS will aim to take over the role of the main opposition force in the country, gathering to its banners all the malcontents and rejectionists any deal would inevitably create. They would also seek to attract the support of the Taliban’s erstwhile supporters, inside and outside Afghanistan,” the report claimed.Also read:Islamic State, al Qaeda hunker down to rebuild in weaker countriesThe Afghan peace talksThe ISIS is slowly building up the momentum in Afghanistan as the year-long US-led peace talks near a conclusion. Although it is clear that the talks will not be concluded by the 1-September deadline set by the Trump administration, it is nevertheless progressing fast.In the aftermath of the Saturday bombings, the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad said the Afghan Peace Process has to be “accelerated” including intra-Afghan negotiations.“Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS,” Khalilzad said in a tweet.We must accelerate the#AfghanPeaceProcessincluding intra-Afghan negotiations. Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS.— U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad (@US4AfghanPeace)August 18, 2019Inan interviewtoThe New York Times, Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, an Islamist cleric from Pakistan, who has been jailed in Pakistan and in the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, claimed to have played a role in establishing the ISIS network in Afghanistan.According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
The Taliban, which is a part of the peace talks, questioned the failure of the US in pre-empting Saturday’s attack. In astrongly-worded statement, it said “leave Afghanistan to the Afghans”.
With anger mounting in Afghanistan over the latest ISIS attack, ThePrint tracks the group’s rise and objectives in the conflict-besieged country.Rise of ISIS in AfghanistanIna reportto the Congress, the US Department of Defence in June said the US efforts against ISIS-K in Afghanistan are part of the global endeavour to defeat ISIS.ISIS-K — Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant – Khorasan Province — is a wing of the terror group that has become active in Afghanistan and Pakistan in the last five years.“ISIS-K poses a threat not only to Afghanistan, but also to the West, which it continuously seeks to target for terrorist activity. In addition to the internal threats, powerful regional actors surround Afghanistan. These powers have varied interests in the political, military, and economic future of Afghanistan,” the report said.It added that the ISIS-K maintains the capability “to conduct mass casualty attacks with the intent to weaken public support for the Afghan Government and the Taliban”. The group continues to “evade, counter, and recover from sustained CT (counter-terrorism) and combat pressure to maintain its territorial safe-haven in eastern Afghanistan, from which it plans attacks and spreads its ideology to displace al-Qa’ida and the Taliban as the predominant regional militant group”, the report said.TitledEnhancing Security and Stability in Afghanistan, the report noted that ISIS-K remains limited to South and Central Asia.It also highlighted that the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region remains a sanctuary for various groups, including the Taliban and its component “Haqqani Network (HQN), al-Qa’ida core (AQ), al-Qa’ida in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT), Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), ISIS-K, and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU)”.Terrorist sanctuaries on both sides of the border present security challenges for Afghanistan and Pakistan and pose a threat to regional security and stability.The ISIS in Afghanistan is mainly located near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. It has grown from a modicum of mid-level Taliban commanders about five years ago,reportedThe GuardianMonday.“If the Taliban stop fighting the US and the Afghan government, ISIS will aim to take over the role of the main opposition force in the country, gathering to its banners all the malcontents and rejectionists any deal would inevitably create. They would also seek to attract the support of the Taliban’s erstwhile supporters, inside and outside Afghanistan,” the report claimed.Also read:Islamic State, al Qaeda hunker down to rebuild in weaker countriesThe Afghan peace talksThe ISIS is slowly building up the momentum in Afghanistan as the year-long US-led peace talks near a conclusion. Although it is clear that the talks will not be concluded by the 1-September deadline set by the Trump administration, it is nevertheless progressing fast.In the aftermath of the Saturday bombings, the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad said the Afghan Peace Process has to be “accelerated” including intra-Afghan negotiations.“Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS,” Khalilzad said in a tweet.We must accelerate the#AfghanPeaceProcessincluding intra-Afghan negotiations. Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS.— U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad (@US4AfghanPeace)August 18, 2019Inan interviewtoThe New York Times, Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, an Islamist cleric from Pakistan, who has been jailed in Pakistan and in the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, claimed to have played a role in establishing the ISIS network in Afghanistan.According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
With anger mounting in Afghanistan over the latest ISIS attack, ThePrint tracks the group’s rise and objectives in the conflict-besieged country.
Rise of ISIS in AfghanistanIna reportto the Congress, the US Department of Defence in June said the US efforts against ISIS-K in Afghanistan are part of the global endeavour to defeat ISIS.ISIS-K — Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant – Khorasan Province — is a wing of the terror group that has become active in Afghanistan and Pakistan in the last five years.“ISIS-K poses a threat not only to Afghanistan, but also to the West, which it continuously seeks to target for terrorist activity. In addition to the internal threats, powerful regional actors surround Afghanistan. These powers have varied interests in the political, military, and economic future of Afghanistan,” the report said.It added that the ISIS-K maintains the capability “to conduct mass casualty attacks with the intent to weaken public support for the Afghan Government and the Taliban”. The group continues to “evade, counter, and recover from sustained CT (counter-terrorism) and combat pressure to maintain its territorial safe-haven in eastern Afghanistan, from which it plans attacks and spreads its ideology to displace al-Qa’ida and the Taliban as the predominant regional militant group”, the report said.TitledEnhancing Security and Stability in Afghanistan, the report noted that ISIS-K remains limited to South and Central Asia.It also highlighted that the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region remains a sanctuary for various groups, including the Taliban and its component “Haqqani Network (HQN), al-Qa’ida core (AQ), al-Qa’ida in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT), Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), ISIS-K, and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU)”.Terrorist sanctuaries on both sides of the border present security challenges for Afghanistan and Pakistan and pose a threat to regional security and stability.The ISIS in Afghanistan is mainly located near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. It has grown from a modicum of mid-level Taliban commanders about five years ago,reportedThe GuardianMonday.“If the Taliban stop fighting the US and the Afghan government, ISIS will aim to take over the role of the main opposition force in the country, gathering to its banners all the malcontents and rejectionists any deal would inevitably create. They would also seek to attract the support of the Taliban’s erstwhile supporters, inside and outside Afghanistan,” the report claimed.Also read:Islamic State, al Qaeda hunker down to rebuild in weaker countriesThe Afghan peace talksThe ISIS is slowly building up the momentum in Afghanistan as the year-long US-led peace talks near a conclusion. Although it is clear that the talks will not be concluded by the 1-September deadline set by the Trump administration, it is nevertheless progressing fast.In the aftermath of the Saturday bombings, the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad said the Afghan Peace Process has to be “accelerated” including intra-Afghan negotiations.“Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS,” Khalilzad said in a tweet.We must accelerate the#AfghanPeaceProcessincluding intra-Afghan negotiations. Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS.— U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad (@US4AfghanPeace)August 18, 2019Inan interviewtoThe New York Times, Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, an Islamist cleric from Pakistan, who has been jailed in Pakistan and in the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, claimed to have played a role in establishing the ISIS network in Afghanistan.According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
Ina reportto the Congress, the US Department of Defence in June said the US efforts against ISIS-K in Afghanistan are part of the global endeavour to defeat ISIS.
ISIS-K — Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant – Khorasan Province — is a wing of the terror group that has become active in Afghanistan and Pakistan in the last five years.“ISIS-K poses a threat not only to Afghanistan, but also to the West, which it continuously seeks to target for terrorist activity. In addition to the internal threats, powerful regional actors surround Afghanistan. These powers have varied interests in the political, military, and economic future of Afghanistan,” the report said.It added that the ISIS-K maintains the capability “to conduct mass casualty attacks with the intent to weaken public support for the Afghan Government and the Taliban”. The group continues to “evade, counter, and recover from sustained CT (counter-terrorism) and combat pressure to maintain its territorial safe-haven in eastern Afghanistan, from which it plans attacks and spreads its ideology to displace al-Qa’ida and the Taliban as the predominant regional militant group”, the report said.TitledEnhancing Security and Stability in Afghanistan, the report noted that ISIS-K remains limited to South and Central Asia.It also highlighted that the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region remains a sanctuary for various groups, including the Taliban and its component “Haqqani Network (HQN), al-Qa’ida core (AQ), al-Qa’ida in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT), Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), ISIS-K, and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU)”.Terrorist sanctuaries on both sides of the border present security challenges for Afghanistan and Pakistan and pose a threat to regional security and stability.The ISIS in Afghanistan is mainly located near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. It has grown from a modicum of mid-level Taliban commanders about five years ago,reportedThe GuardianMonday.“If the Taliban stop fighting the US and the Afghan government, ISIS will aim to take over the role of the main opposition force in the country, gathering to its banners all the malcontents and rejectionists any deal would inevitably create. They would also seek to attract the support of the Taliban’s erstwhile supporters, inside and outside Afghanistan,” the report claimed.Also read:Islamic State, al Qaeda hunker down to rebuild in weaker countriesThe Afghan peace talksThe ISIS is slowly building up the momentum in Afghanistan as the year-long US-led peace talks near a conclusion. Although it is clear that the talks will not be concluded by the 1-September deadline set by the Trump administration, it is nevertheless progressing fast.In the aftermath of the Saturday bombings, the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad said the Afghan Peace Process has to be “accelerated” including intra-Afghan negotiations.“Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS,” Khalilzad said in a tweet.We must accelerate the#AfghanPeaceProcessincluding intra-Afghan negotiations. Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS.— U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad (@US4AfghanPeace)August 18, 2019Inan interviewtoThe New York Times, Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, an Islamist cleric from Pakistan, who has been jailed in Pakistan and in the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, claimed to have played a role in establishing the ISIS network in Afghanistan.According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
ISIS-K — Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant – Khorasan Province — is a wing of the terror group that has become active in Afghanistan and Pakistan in the last five years.
“ISIS-K poses a threat not only to Afghanistan, but also to the West, which it continuously seeks to target for terrorist activity. In addition to the internal threats, powerful regional actors surround Afghanistan. These powers have varied interests in the political, military, and economic future of Afghanistan,” the report said.It added that the ISIS-K maintains the capability “to conduct mass casualty attacks with the intent to weaken public support for the Afghan Government and the Taliban”. The group continues to “evade, counter, and recover from sustained CT (counter-terrorism) and combat pressure to maintain its territorial safe-haven in eastern Afghanistan, from which it plans attacks and spreads its ideology to displace al-Qa’ida and the Taliban as the predominant regional militant group”, the report said.TitledEnhancing Security and Stability in Afghanistan, the report noted that ISIS-K remains limited to South and Central Asia.It also highlighted that the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region remains a sanctuary for various groups, including the Taliban and its component “Haqqani Network (HQN), al-Qa’ida core (AQ), al-Qa’ida in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT), Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), ISIS-K, and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU)”.Terrorist sanctuaries on both sides of the border present security challenges for Afghanistan and Pakistan and pose a threat to regional security and stability.The ISIS in Afghanistan is mainly located near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. It has grown from a modicum of mid-level Taliban commanders about five years ago,reportedThe GuardianMonday.“If the Taliban stop fighting the US and the Afghan government, ISIS will aim to take over the role of the main opposition force in the country, gathering to its banners all the malcontents and rejectionists any deal would inevitably create. They would also seek to attract the support of the Taliban’s erstwhile supporters, inside and outside Afghanistan,” the report claimed.Also read:Islamic State, al Qaeda hunker down to rebuild in weaker countriesThe Afghan peace talksThe ISIS is slowly building up the momentum in Afghanistan as the year-long US-led peace talks near a conclusion. Although it is clear that the talks will not be concluded by the 1-September deadline set by the Trump administration, it is nevertheless progressing fast.In the aftermath of the Saturday bombings, the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad said the Afghan Peace Process has to be “accelerated” including intra-Afghan negotiations.“Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS,” Khalilzad said in a tweet.We must accelerate the#AfghanPeaceProcessincluding intra-Afghan negotiations. Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS.— U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad (@US4AfghanPeace)August 18, 2019Inan interviewtoThe New York Times, Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, an Islamist cleric from Pakistan, who has been jailed in Pakistan and in the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, claimed to have played a role in establishing the ISIS network in Afghanistan.According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
“ISIS-K poses a threat not only to Afghanistan, but also to the West, which it continuously seeks to target for terrorist activity. In addition to the internal threats, powerful regional actors surround Afghanistan. These powers have varied interests in the political, military, and economic future of Afghanistan,” the report said.
It added that the ISIS-K maintains the capability “to conduct mass casualty attacks with the intent to weaken public support for the Afghan Government and the Taliban”. The group continues to “evade, counter, and recover from sustained CT (counter-terrorism) and combat pressure to maintain its territorial safe-haven in eastern Afghanistan, from which it plans attacks and spreads its ideology to displace al-Qa’ida and the Taliban as the predominant regional militant group”, the report said.TitledEnhancing Security and Stability in Afghanistan, the report noted that ISIS-K remains limited to South and Central Asia.It also highlighted that the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region remains a sanctuary for various groups, including the Taliban and its component “Haqqani Network (HQN), al-Qa’ida core (AQ), al-Qa’ida in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT), Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), ISIS-K, and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU)”.Terrorist sanctuaries on both sides of the border present security challenges for Afghanistan and Pakistan and pose a threat to regional security and stability.The ISIS in Afghanistan is mainly located near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. It has grown from a modicum of mid-level Taliban commanders about five years ago,reportedThe GuardianMonday.“If the Taliban stop fighting the US and the Afghan government, ISIS will aim to take over the role of the main opposition force in the country, gathering to its banners all the malcontents and rejectionists any deal would inevitably create. They would also seek to attract the support of the Taliban’s erstwhile supporters, inside and outside Afghanistan,” the report claimed.Also read:Islamic State, al Qaeda hunker down to rebuild in weaker countriesThe Afghan peace talksThe ISIS is slowly building up the momentum in Afghanistan as the year-long US-led peace talks near a conclusion. Although it is clear that the talks will not be concluded by the 1-September deadline set by the Trump administration, it is nevertheless progressing fast.In the aftermath of the Saturday bombings, the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad said the Afghan Peace Process has to be “accelerated” including intra-Afghan negotiations.“Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS,” Khalilzad said in a tweet.We must accelerate the#AfghanPeaceProcessincluding intra-Afghan negotiations. Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS.— U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad (@US4AfghanPeace)August 18, 2019Inan interviewtoThe New York Times, Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, an Islamist cleric from Pakistan, who has been jailed in Pakistan and in the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, claimed to have played a role in establishing the ISIS network in Afghanistan.According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
It added that the ISIS-K maintains the capability “to conduct mass casualty attacks with the intent to weaken public support for the Afghan Government and the Taliban”. The group continues to “evade, counter, and recover from sustained CT (counter-terrorism) and combat pressure to maintain its territorial safe-haven in eastern Afghanistan, from which it plans attacks and spreads its ideology to displace al-Qa’ida and the Taliban as the predominant regional militant group”, the report said.
TitledEnhancing Security and Stability in Afghanistan, the report noted that ISIS-K remains limited to South and Central Asia.It also highlighted that the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region remains a sanctuary for various groups, including the Taliban and its component “Haqqani Network (HQN), al-Qa’ida core (AQ), al-Qa’ida in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT), Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), ISIS-K, and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU)”.Terrorist sanctuaries on both sides of the border present security challenges for Afghanistan and Pakistan and pose a threat to regional security and stability.The ISIS in Afghanistan is mainly located near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. It has grown from a modicum of mid-level Taliban commanders about five years ago,reportedThe GuardianMonday.“If the Taliban stop fighting the US and the Afghan government, ISIS will aim to take over the role of the main opposition force in the country, gathering to its banners all the malcontents and rejectionists any deal would inevitably create. They would also seek to attract the support of the Taliban’s erstwhile supporters, inside and outside Afghanistan,” the report claimed.Also read:Islamic State, al Qaeda hunker down to rebuild in weaker countriesThe Afghan peace talksThe ISIS is slowly building up the momentum in Afghanistan as the year-long US-led peace talks near a conclusion. Although it is clear that the talks will not be concluded by the 1-September deadline set by the Trump administration, it is nevertheless progressing fast.In the aftermath of the Saturday bombings, the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad said the Afghan Peace Process has to be “accelerated” including intra-Afghan negotiations.“Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS,” Khalilzad said in a tweet.We must accelerate the#AfghanPeaceProcessincluding intra-Afghan negotiations. Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS.— U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad (@US4AfghanPeace)August 18, 2019Inan interviewtoThe New York Times, Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, an Islamist cleric from Pakistan, who has been jailed in Pakistan and in the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, claimed to have played a role in establishing the ISIS network in Afghanistan.According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
TitledEnhancing Security and Stability in Afghanistan, the report noted that ISIS-K remains limited to South and Central Asia.
It also highlighted that the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region remains a sanctuary for various groups, including the Taliban and its component “Haqqani Network (HQN), al-Qa’ida core (AQ), al-Qa’ida in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT), Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), ISIS-K, and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU)”.Terrorist sanctuaries on both sides of the border present security challenges for Afghanistan and Pakistan and pose a threat to regional security and stability.The ISIS in Afghanistan is mainly located near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. It has grown from a modicum of mid-level Taliban commanders about five years ago,reportedThe GuardianMonday.“If the Taliban stop fighting the US and the Afghan government, ISIS will aim to take over the role of the main opposition force in the country, gathering to its banners all the malcontents and rejectionists any deal would inevitably create. They would also seek to attract the support of the Taliban’s erstwhile supporters, inside and outside Afghanistan,” the report claimed.Also read:Islamic State, al Qaeda hunker down to rebuild in weaker countriesThe Afghan peace talksThe ISIS is slowly building up the momentum in Afghanistan as the year-long US-led peace talks near a conclusion. Although it is clear that the talks will not be concluded by the 1-September deadline set by the Trump administration, it is nevertheless progressing fast.In the aftermath of the Saturday bombings, the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad said the Afghan Peace Process has to be “accelerated” including intra-Afghan negotiations.“Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS,” Khalilzad said in a tweet.We must accelerate the#AfghanPeaceProcessincluding intra-Afghan negotiations. Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS.— U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad (@US4AfghanPeace)August 18, 2019Inan interviewtoThe New York Times, Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, an Islamist cleric from Pakistan, who has been jailed in Pakistan and in the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, claimed to have played a role in establishing the ISIS network in Afghanistan.According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
It also highlighted that the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region remains a sanctuary for various groups, including the Taliban and its component “Haqqani Network (HQN), al-Qa’ida core (AQ), al-Qa’ida in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT), Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), ISIS-K, and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU)”.
Terrorist sanctuaries on both sides of the border present security challenges for Afghanistan and Pakistan and pose a threat to regional security and stability.The ISIS in Afghanistan is mainly located near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. It has grown from a modicum of mid-level Taliban commanders about five years ago,reportedThe GuardianMonday.“If the Taliban stop fighting the US and the Afghan government, ISIS will aim to take over the role of the main opposition force in the country, gathering to its banners all the malcontents and rejectionists any deal would inevitably create. They would also seek to attract the support of the Taliban’s erstwhile supporters, inside and outside Afghanistan,” the report claimed.Also read:Islamic State, al Qaeda hunker down to rebuild in weaker countriesThe Afghan peace talksThe ISIS is slowly building up the momentum in Afghanistan as the year-long US-led peace talks near a conclusion. Although it is clear that the talks will not be concluded by the 1-September deadline set by the Trump administration, it is nevertheless progressing fast.In the aftermath of the Saturday bombings, the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad said the Afghan Peace Process has to be “accelerated” including intra-Afghan negotiations.“Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS,” Khalilzad said in a tweet.We must accelerate the#AfghanPeaceProcessincluding intra-Afghan negotiations. Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS.— U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad (@US4AfghanPeace)August 18, 2019Inan interviewtoThe New York Times, Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, an Islamist cleric from Pakistan, who has been jailed in Pakistan and in the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, claimed to have played a role in establishing the ISIS network in Afghanistan.According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
Terrorist sanctuaries on both sides of the border present security challenges for Afghanistan and Pakistan and pose a threat to regional security and stability.
The ISIS in Afghanistan is mainly located near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. It has grown from a modicum of mid-level Taliban commanders about five years ago,reportedThe GuardianMonday.“If the Taliban stop fighting the US and the Afghan government, ISIS will aim to take over the role of the main opposition force in the country, gathering to its banners all the malcontents and rejectionists any deal would inevitably create. They would also seek to attract the support of the Taliban’s erstwhile supporters, inside and outside Afghanistan,” the report claimed.Also read:Islamic State, al Qaeda hunker down to rebuild in weaker countriesThe Afghan peace talksThe ISIS is slowly building up the momentum in Afghanistan as the year-long US-led peace talks near a conclusion. Although it is clear that the talks will not be concluded by the 1-September deadline set by the Trump administration, it is nevertheless progressing fast.In the aftermath of the Saturday bombings, the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad said the Afghan Peace Process has to be “accelerated” including intra-Afghan negotiations.“Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS,” Khalilzad said in a tweet.We must accelerate the#AfghanPeaceProcessincluding intra-Afghan negotiations. Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS.— U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad (@US4AfghanPeace)August 18, 2019Inan interviewtoThe New York Times, Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, an Islamist cleric from Pakistan, who has been jailed in Pakistan and in the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, claimed to have played a role in establishing the ISIS network in Afghanistan.According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
The ISIS in Afghanistan is mainly located near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. It has grown from a modicum of mid-level Taliban commanders about five years ago,reportedThe GuardianMonday.
“If the Taliban stop fighting the US and the Afghan government, ISIS will aim to take over the role of the main opposition force in the country, gathering to its banners all the malcontents and rejectionists any deal would inevitably create. They would also seek to attract the support of the Taliban’s erstwhile supporters, inside and outside Afghanistan,” the report claimed.Also read:Islamic State, al Qaeda hunker down to rebuild in weaker countriesThe Afghan peace talksThe ISIS is slowly building up the momentum in Afghanistan as the year-long US-led peace talks near a conclusion. Although it is clear that the talks will not be concluded by the 1-September deadline set by the Trump administration, it is nevertheless progressing fast.In the aftermath of the Saturday bombings, the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad said the Afghan Peace Process has to be “accelerated” including intra-Afghan negotiations.“Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS,” Khalilzad said in a tweet.We must accelerate the#AfghanPeaceProcessincluding intra-Afghan negotiations. Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS.— U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad (@US4AfghanPeace)August 18, 2019Inan interviewtoThe New York Times, Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, an Islamist cleric from Pakistan, who has been jailed in Pakistan and in the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, claimed to have played a role in establishing the ISIS network in Afghanistan.According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
“If the Taliban stop fighting the US and the Afghan government, ISIS will aim to take over the role of the main opposition force in the country, gathering to its banners all the malcontents and rejectionists any deal would inevitably create. They would also seek to attract the support of the Taliban’s erstwhile supporters, inside and outside Afghanistan,” the report claimed.
Also read:Islamic State, al Qaeda hunker down to rebuild in weaker countriesThe Afghan peace talksThe ISIS is slowly building up the momentum in Afghanistan as the year-long US-led peace talks near a conclusion. Although it is clear that the talks will not be concluded by the 1-September deadline set by the Trump administration, it is nevertheless progressing fast.In the aftermath of the Saturday bombings, the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad said the Afghan Peace Process has to be “accelerated” including intra-Afghan negotiations.“Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS,” Khalilzad said in a tweet.We must accelerate the#AfghanPeaceProcessincluding intra-Afghan negotiations. Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS.— U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad (@US4AfghanPeace)August 18, 2019Inan interviewtoThe New York Times, Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, an Islamist cleric from Pakistan, who has been jailed in Pakistan and in the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, claimed to have played a role in establishing the ISIS network in Afghanistan.According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
Also read:Islamic State, al Qaeda hunker down to rebuild in weaker countries
The Afghan peace talksThe ISIS is slowly building up the momentum in Afghanistan as the year-long US-led peace talks near a conclusion. Although it is clear that the talks will not be concluded by the 1-September deadline set by the Trump administration, it is nevertheless progressing fast.In the aftermath of the Saturday bombings, the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad said the Afghan Peace Process has to be “accelerated” including intra-Afghan negotiations.“Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS,” Khalilzad said in a tweet.We must accelerate the#AfghanPeaceProcessincluding intra-Afghan negotiations. Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS.— U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad (@US4AfghanPeace)August 18, 2019Inan interviewtoThe New York Times, Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, an Islamist cleric from Pakistan, who has been jailed in Pakistan and in the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, claimed to have played a role in establishing the ISIS network in Afghanistan.According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
The ISIS is slowly building up the momentum in Afghanistan as the year-long US-led peace talks near a conclusion. Although it is clear that the talks will not be concluded by the 1-September deadline set by the Trump administration, it is nevertheless progressing fast.
In the aftermath of the Saturday bombings, the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad said the Afghan Peace Process has to be “accelerated” including intra-Afghan negotiations.“Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS,” Khalilzad said in a tweet.We must accelerate the#AfghanPeaceProcessincluding intra-Afghan negotiations. Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS.— U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad (@US4AfghanPeace)August 18, 2019Inan interviewtoThe New York Times, Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, an Islamist cleric from Pakistan, who has been jailed in Pakistan and in the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, claimed to have played a role in establishing the ISIS network in Afghanistan.According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
In the aftermath of the Saturday bombings, the US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad said the Afghan Peace Process has to be “accelerated” including intra-Afghan negotiations.
“Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS,” Khalilzad said in a tweet.We must accelerate the#AfghanPeaceProcessincluding intra-Afghan negotiations. Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS.— U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad (@US4AfghanPeace)August 18, 2019Inan interviewtoThe New York Times, Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, an Islamist cleric from Pakistan, who has been jailed in Pakistan and in the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, claimed to have played a role in establishing the ISIS network in Afghanistan.According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
“Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS,” Khalilzad said in a tweet.
We must accelerate the#AfghanPeaceProcessincluding intra-Afghan negotiations. Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS.— U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad (@US4AfghanPeace)August 18, 2019Inan interviewtoThe New York Times, Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, an Islamist cleric from Pakistan, who has been jailed in Pakistan and in the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, claimed to have played a role in establishing the ISIS network in Afghanistan.According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
We must accelerate the#AfghanPeaceProcessincluding intra-Afghan negotiations. Success here will put Afghans in a much stronger position to defeat ISIS.
— U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad (@US4AfghanPeace)August 18, 2019
— U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad (@US4AfghanPeace)August 18, 2019


Inan interviewtoThe New York Times, Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, an Islamist cleric from Pakistan, who has been jailed in Pakistan and in the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, claimed to have played a role in establishing the ISIS network in Afghanistan.According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
Inan interviewtoThe New York Times, Abdul Rahim Muslimdost, an Islamist cleric from Pakistan, who has been jailed in Pakistan and in the American detention camp at Guantánamo Bay, claimed to have played a role in establishing the ISIS network in Afghanistan.
According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
According to Muslimdost, “If there is a settlement with the Taliban, and they become part of the government, Pakistan has the replacement for them ready already. They will continue this war in Afghanistan in the name of the Islamic State.”
Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
Pakistan is the fourth end in the quadripartite talks.
The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
The main objective of ISIS in Afghanistan now is to disrupt the peace talks to prevent Taliban from entering the corridors of power in Kabul. Besides, its ultimate aim continues to be claiming of territories in Afghanistan and establish the Islamic Caliphate.
However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
However, some Taliban factions also owe allegiance to ISIS-K.
The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
The United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan documented 2,640 war-related civilian deaths and 5,379 injuries in the first nine months of 2017, a slight decrease over the same period in 2016. The Taliban and groups claiming allegiance to ISIS-K were responsible fortwo-thirds of these, the Human Rights Watch said in a report.
ISIS in south AsiaDespite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
Despite the US’ chest-thumping claims of defeating the ISIS about six months ago, the group raised its ugly head during the Easter Bombings in Sri Lanka in April that killed more than 250 people.
The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
The Sri Lankan police Criminal Investigation Department (CID) claimed that the terrorists behind the 21 April attacks who hailed from the group National Thowheeth Jamath (NTJ) hadno links to ISIS, but the probe revealed that the terrorists did follow ISIS’s ideology.
The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
The NTJ itself claimed in a video that it pledged alliance to ISIS supremo Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi. After a span of almost five years, Baghdadiappeared in a videodays after the attack to claim that the bombings were carried out as a revenge for the fall of the Syrian town of Baghuz and that the group is fighting a “battle of attrition”.
Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
Now, the Baghdadi-led group has firmly set its sights on Afghanistan.
Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan
Also read:With a resurgent Taliban and growing ISIS, no one is safe in Afghanistan



Subscribe to our channels onYouTube,Telegram&WhatsApp
Support Our Journalism
India needs fair, non-hyphenated and questioning journalism, packed with on-ground reporting. ThePrint – with exceptional reporters, columnists and editors – is doing just that.
Sustaining this needs support from wonderful readers like you.
Whether you live in India or overseas, you can take a paid subscription by clickinghere.
Support Our Journalism
अच्छी प्रस्तुति।    आज के आई एस आई एस की सतही कार्यवाहियों और कारगुजारियां की सुर्खियां मीडिया में आती है , बहुत से लेख और लेखक अपने अपने विचार रखते हैं! एक चीज पर न कोई ध्यान देता है न ,न बोलता न लिखता है।प्रशन सबसे पहले यह उठता है ,कि इस आतंकवादी संस्था का कोई बैंक नहीं, कोई हथियारों की फैक्ट्री नहीं,तो फिर इनके पास सौफिटिकेटिड हथियार कहा से आते हैं , हथियार ,मैन पावर ,अन्य लाइफ लाइन के लिये पैसा कहां से मिलता है? कोन देश है जो इनका पालन-पोषण करते हैं? अगर इस बिमारी की जड़ को खत्म करना है तो उन देशों और इतर धार्मिक संगठनों को दुनिया के सामने नंगा करना है और उन पर अंतरराष्ट्रीय कारवाई होनी चाहिए। आज आतंकवाद दुनिया की सबसे बड़ी समस्या है।
सारा गोल माल ,मज़हब और सियासत के ठेकेदारों का गन्दा खेल है ,जो अपने स्वार्थ के लिए ,उपर से इन्सानियत और अन्दर से हैवानियत का खेल खेलते हैं।
प्रेटरो डालर ,,,की ताकत ने मिडिल ईस्ट का मिजाज बदला , सलाफी और बहावी इस्लाम की आपसी टकराव ने ,अल कायदा , जैसे अपराधियों के समूह को ,, वैश्विक आतंकवाद  की आग को जलाने के लिए खुल कर सपोर्ट किया,। दुनिया के इस्लामिक तेल उत्पादक संघ की भूमिका को नजरंदाज नहीं किया जा सकता ,पर्दे के पीछे के खेल चलते रहे हैं । अलकायदा , ओसामा बिन लादेन के बाद जमीन पर आ गिरा तो इस्लामिक स्टेट ,का बग़दादी, ग्रुप दुनिया के पर्दे  पर आ गया । निजामे मुस्तफा,और गज़वा ए हिन्द की हरकतों को एशिया में पालने पोसने का का किया पाकिस्तान के ,, जिया-उल-हक नेउसकी पुश्त पनाही किसने की छुपा नहीं है। पाकिस्तान आज तमाम तरह के आतंकवाद की फैक्ट्री है , दुनिया के किसी भी देश में होने वाली आतंकवादी घटनाओं में परोक्ष रूप से पाकिस्तान सरकार के सम्बन्ध होने के पुख्ता सबूत है,पर वो कभी मानता नहीं।मिडिल ईस्ट में इराक, लिबिया के बाद सीरीया और एशिया में अफगानिस्तान की हालत अंतरराष्ट्रीय आतंकवादी अपराधियों के साथ साथ बड़े गुटों की आपसी चौधराहट भी  इस समस्या को खत्म नहीं करना चाहते।वक्त ,का इंतजार किजीये ,और प्रार्थना किजीये ,,,,कि वो सुबह कभी तो आयेगी,,, जब दुनिया को आतंकवाद से निजात मिलेगी।
So much of the infrastructure for terror exists in the Af – Pak region, two decades after the US invasion. So, to split the problem into two, a continued US presence of 14,000 troops is not going to solve it. This is something which requires America, China and Russia – none of which have any love for ISIS – to work together. Pakistan has a major role to play. Pity that India is no longer seen as part of the solution; we have a lot to lose. By focusing excessively on our bilateral differences with Pakistan, we may be missing out on contributing to bringing peace and stability to such a volatile part of our neighbourhood.
This was a Shia wedding that was bombed?!
Many Indians don’t realize Pakis receive hateful sectarian indoctrination besides hatred against non-Muslims. I have interacted and read paki comments in many forums and come across Sunni Pakis fiercely insisting Shias are not Muslims at all and are worse than kafirs. They have the worst hatred for Ahmedis.There isn’t as much sectarian animosity among Indian Muslims, though it seems some in UP. The couple of Indian Muslim friends I asked this, they don’t even want to talk about it.
Yes, not just Shia, but Hazaras. Developed a bond of affection for them after reading The Kite Runner.
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Δ
Required fields are marked*

Name*
Email*

Δ
अच्छी प्रस्तुति।    आज के आई एस आई एस की सतही कार्यवाहियों और कारगुजारियां की सुर्खियां मीडिया में आती है , बहुत से लेख और लेखक अपने अपने विचार रखते हैं! एक चीज पर न कोई ध्यान देता है न ,न बोलता न लिखता है।प्रशन सबसे पहले यह उठता है ,कि इस आतंकवादी संस्था का कोई बैंक नहीं, कोई हथियारों की फैक्ट्री नहीं,तो फिर इनके पास सौफिटिकेटिड हथियार कहा से आते हैं , हथियार ,मैन पावर ,अन्य लाइफ लाइन के लिये पैसा कहां से मिलता है? कोन देश है जो इनका पालन-पोषण करते हैं? अगर इस बिमारी की जड़ को खत्म करना है तो उन देशों और इतर धार्मिक संगठनों को दुनिया के सामने नंगा करना है और उन पर अंतरराष्ट्रीय कारवाई होनी चाहिए। आज आतंकवाद दुनिया की सबसे बड़ी समस्या है।
सारा गोल माल ,मज़हब और सियासत के ठेकेदारों का गन्दा खेल है ,जो अपने स्वार्थ के लिए ,उपर से इन्सानियत और अन्दर से हैवानियत का खेल खेलते हैं।
प्रेटरो डालर ,,,की ताकत ने मिडिल ईस्ट का मिजाज बदला , सलाफी और बहावी इस्लाम की आपसी टकराव ने ,अल कायदा , जैसे अपराधियों के समूह को ,, वैश्विक आतंकवाद  की आग को जलाने के लिए खुल कर सपोर्ट किया,। दुनिया के इस्लामिक तेल उत्पादक संघ की भूमिका को नजरंदाज नहीं किया जा सकता ,पर्दे के पीछे के खेल चलते रहे हैं । अलकायदा , ओसामा बिन लादेन के बाद जमीन पर आ गिरा तो इस्लामिक स्टेट ,का बग़दादी, ग्रुप दुनिया के पर्दे  पर आ गया । निजामे मुस्तफा,और गज़वा ए हिन्द की हरकतों को एशिया में पालने पोसने का का किया पाकिस्तान के ,, जिया-उल-हक नेउसकी पुश्त पनाही किसने की छुपा नहीं है। पाकिस्तान आज तमाम तरह के आतंकवाद की फैक्ट्री है , दुनिया के किसी भी देश में होने वाली आतंकवादी घटनाओं में परोक्ष रूप से पाकिस्तान सरकार के सम्बन्ध होने के पुख्ता सबूत है,पर वो कभी मानता नहीं।मिडिल ईस्ट में इराक, लिबिया के बाद सीरीया और एशिया में अफगानिस्तान की हालत अंतरराष्ट्रीय आतंकवादी अपराधियों के साथ साथ बड़े गुटों की आपसी चौधराहट भी  इस समस्या को खत्म नहीं करना चाहते।वक्त ,का इंतजार किजीये ,और प्रार्थना किजीये ,,,,कि वो सुबह कभी तो आयेगी,,, जब दुनिया को आतंकवाद से निजात मिलेगी।
So much of the infrastructure for terror exists in the Af – Pak region, two decades after the US invasion. So, to split the problem into two, a continued US presence of 14,000 troops is not going to solve it. This is something which requires America, China and Russia – none of which have any love for ISIS – to work together. Pakistan has a major role to play. Pity that India is no longer seen as part of the solution; we have a lot to lose. By focusing excessively on our bilateral differences with Pakistan, we may be missing out on contributing to bringing peace and stability to such a volatile part of our neighbourhood.
This was a Shia wedding that was bombed?!
Many Indians don’t realize Pakis receive hateful sectarian indoctrination besides hatred against non-Muslims. I have interacted and read paki comments in many forums and come across Sunni Pakis fiercely insisting Shias are not Muslims at all and are worse than kafirs. They have the worst hatred for Ahmedis.There isn’t as much sectarian animosity among Indian Muslims, though it seems some in UP. The couple of Indian Muslim friends I asked this, they don’t even want to talk about it.
Yes, not just Shia, but Hazaras. Developed a bond of affection for them after reading The Kite Runner.
Copyright © 2024 Printline Media Pvt. Ltd. All rights reserved.

Title: Trump Said ISIS Was Finished, but They Still Pose a Threat - Business Insider
While the Islamic State's caliphate — the idea of a land ruled by its radical interpretation of Islamic law – ended with US-led coalition campaigns in Iraq and Syria, the group is very much alive and regrouping in Iraq, Syria, and Afghanistan. And its alliances with extremist groups internationally show that the group is adaptable, strategic, and not going anywhere soon.

US power vacuums in Syria and Iraq have allowed ISIS fighters to regroup, and they pose a renewed risk to the region's stability. But it's not just Iraq and Syria — ISIS is active in countries all over the world, and in some places it's growing.
The Syrian Democratic Forces, a US-backed group, was able to defeat a significantly weakened ISIS,which lost its de facto capital, the Syrian city of Raqqa, in 2017.
At its peak, ISIS controlled major cities including Raqqa and Mosul and Fallujah, Iraq. It controlled more than 100,000 square kilometers and about 11 million people in Iraq and Syria during its peak in 2014,according to the RAND Corporation.

Ablistering Pentagon reportblamed Trump's decision to pull troops out of Syria and cut diplomatic staff in Iraq for the resurgence of ISIS in Syria and Iraq.
While the group looks different, it's able to earn money and recruit combatants. The Pentagon report estimates that between 14,000 and 18,000 ISIS combatants remain, and they are carrying out suicide attacks, assassinations, crop burnings, and ambushes in Syria and Iraq.
There are also concerns that ISIS may be growing inSyria's Al-Hol refugee camp, where as many as 70,000 Syrians live in dire conditions.Families who formerly belonged to ISIS, including foreign fighters who came to the region to join the caliphate, are housed here, where experts fear the group can rebuild and recruit.
ISIS has established safe havens in the mountains of Iraq, and has caused "mass civilian displacement" there,according to the Pentagon's report.It's also working to decrease government stability and increase civlian distrust of the government by carrying out targeted assassinations of local officials.
With the group strengthening, Iraq's security forces don't have the capability or infrastructure to fend off ISIS attacks for sustained periods of time, and the government can't access rural areas where ISIS support among civilians is relatively high.
The Pentagon warns of a significant insurgency in Iraq "in the coming months."
As ISIS-Khorasan, the Islamic State wages attacks against civilians in Afghanistan, the most recenta suicide bombing of a wedding in Kabul that left 63 dead.
The UN estimates that it has between 2,000 and 4,000 fighters, and is in competition with the Taliban for recruits, with many former Taliban joining ISIS-K to fulfill their desire for jihad as the Taliban becomes an increasingly political force.
National security experts warn that ISIS-K is a grave threat to the US and other Western countries.
"The US should be very concerned about ISIS using Afghanistan to stage attacks on the West," Jennifer Cafarella, Research Director at the Institute for the Study of War,previously told Insider.
"The conduct of external attacks is core to the very nature of the ISIS organization, and the provinces ISIS creates abroad do adopt this goal."
ISIS-K "has a universe of relationships with other militant organizations across Afghanistan and Pakistan which provide it with ideological, logistical and operational support," Amira Jadoon, an expert on terrorism at the Combatting Terrorism Center at West Point, told Insider, increasing the group's reach throughout Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Alliances with groupslike the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan and Lashkar-e-Islam provide ISIS-K with support, whether it's ideological, material in terms of weapons or manpower, or logistical — staging attacks together.
ISWAP has approximately 3,500-5,000 members and maintains support from ISIS, whichCrisis Groupreports has provided ISWAP with trainings and claims ISWAP's targets (mostly the Nigerian government and military) as its own.
ISWAP has popular support, particularly in places where the government cannot provide support like healthcare.
While the Islamic State in Somalia is reported to have only a few hundred members, according tothe Combating Terrorism Center at West Point,it's made gains against its regional terrorist rival, al-Qaeda-backed Al-Shabaab.
Islamic State in Somalia has begun collecting revenue by means of taxation and extortion, and claimed 66 operations in Somalia in 2018, more than in the previous two years combined. It has also made inroads in Mogadishu, outside its base in the north of Somalia. It has drawn at least one US residentwho allegedly planned to head to Somalia to fight for IS there before he was arrested by US law enforcement.
While it's unclear if Islamic State in Somalia can keep up the pace of its expansion in the face of pushback from Al-Shabaab, its rapid gains are troubling.
The Mindanao island chain in the Philippines is considered the Islamic State's eastern province, carrying out a bombing on a Catholic church in January 2019, despite Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte saying that the group had been defeated in the Philippines.
"ISIS has money coming into the Philippines, and they are recruiting fighters,"  Rommel Banlaoi, chairman of the Philippine Institute for Peace, Violence and Terrorism Research, toldThe New York Times.
The poorly-policed seas and jungles of the area, combined with a government unwilling to admit it has an insurgency on its hands, create fertile ground for ISIS to grow in the Philippines.

However, their presence in these countries is less than that of places like Syria and Afghanistan.
Jump to

Title: Afghanistan | ReliefWeb Response
Afghanistan
Highlights

Humanitarian partners are ramping up response efforts following heavy windstorms, severe rainfall and flash floods that struck multiple districts of Badakhshan, Baghlan, Kunar, Laghman, Nangarhar and Nuristan provinces in eastern and northeastern Afghanistan on 15 and…
Afghanistan is facing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis with a very real risk of systemic collapse and human catastrophe.
PEOPLE IN NEED:29.2M |PLANNED REACH:17.3MINTER-SECTOR REACH:1.9M |OVERALL REACHED:12.1MREQUIREMENTS (US$):$3.06B |RECEIVED (US$):735.2M
This multi-sectoral Response Plan requires approximately $93.6 million to support 114,000 earthquake-affected people in Herat.
Individuals fled their homes dueto conflict. Displacement affects all people differently.
Afghanistan is prone to earthquakes, flooding, drought, landslides and avalanches.
Humanitarian Operational Presence and Operational Capacity.
Concise operational document to support the coordination of humanitarian response in Afghanistan.
Visual of key issues and trends related to the Afghanistan humanitarian response.
Afghanistan
Background
In an increasingly complex operating environment, stronger coordination around humanitarian needs assessments is critical to enable effective assessment of multi-dimensional needs; optimise available resources (including use of trained enumerators); reduce the burden on key informants; and…
Afghanistan
Afghanistan is facing the devastating effects of almost forty years of war, increasing poverty and natural disasters, all of which were amplified by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. At the beginning of 2021, almost 17…
Afghanistan
Overview
Due to security concerns and socio-cultural barriers, some female personnel may face challenges when travelling for work or participating in other professional activities. These persistent barriers to full participation in the workforce have resulted in diminished…
Afghanistan
UN announces Transitional Engagement Framework (TEF) for Afghanistan to save lives, sustain services and preserve community systems
Kabul, Geneva, New York, 26 January 2022 – The UN team in Afghanistan has launched its One-UN Transitional Engagement Framework…

Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services



Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:49Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Afghanistan: Weekly Humanitarian Update (29 July - 04 August 2019) - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan+ 2 more
KEY FIGURES
PEOPLE ASSISTED (PAST WEEK)
16,400 People received assistance
IDPS IN 2019 (AS OF 4 AUG)
206,100 People newly displaced
261,500* Received assistance
RETURNEES IN 2019 (AS OF 27 JUL)
260,550 Returnees from Iran
16,115 Returnees from Pakistan
5,900 Returnees from other countries
HRP REQUIREMENTS & FUNDING
612M Requested (US$)
165M 27% funded (US$)
AFGHANISTAN HUMANITARIAN FUND
27M Contributions (US$)
6M Pledges (US$)
26.5M Expenditure
2.86M Programmable amount**
*Including some assistance to people displaced in late 2018
**Including carry over before HFU cost-plan 2020
North: 1,281 received aid after assessment
In the past week, inter-agency teams verified 2,149 people in the North of the country (Balkh, Jawzjan, Sar-e-Pul, Faryab, Andkhoy district, Maymana city) displaced by conflict and in need of assistance. To date, 1,281 people received humanitarian assistance mainly in Balkh and Faryab Provinces.
Northeast: new hostilities and displacement
New hostilities broke out in the districts of Qala-e-Zal (Kunduz Province), Koran wa Monjan (Badakhshan Province) and Eshkamesh (Takhar Province). In Qala-e-Zal, 1,750 people were displaced to hard-to-reach areas controlled by Non-State Armed Groups (NSAG). Negotiations to access people in need are ongoing. NSAG reportedly took control of the District Center in Koran wa Monjan resulting in displacement to Faizabad city, Eshkashiem and Baharak districts, and Nuristan province (number yet to be established). In Eshkamesh, clashes between the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) and NSAG resulted in the displacement of 100 families from villages to the District Centre.
East: hostilities, displacement and closure of health centres
Clashes in the East contributed to 61 reported security incidents since 28 April. The ANSF retook control of a few villages in the districts of Batikot, Shinwar, Nazyan, Muhmand Dara, Lalpur, Chaparhar and Achin. Clashes between NSAG continued in Sherzad, Khogyani (Nangarhar), Chapadara and Shegil (Kunar) with the latter experiencing the highest number of clashes. According to initial reports, NSAG have re-established a presence in the remote areas of Pachieragam and Dehbala.
NGO health facilities closed due to insecurity since April in Nuristan, Nangarhar and Laghman province remain closed, denying approximately 25,600 people access to health services. Health facilities that had previously been closed in Ghaziabad, Digal in (Kunar) and Bilalkhail in Nangarhar re-opened on 28 July, resuming services for up to 20,000 people.
Some 4,571 people were displaced (Nangarhar: 4,081 people; Laghman: 490 people), with assessments planned in the coming days. Last week, 3,710 people were identified as in need of assistance. Some 1,869 people were reached with humanitarian assistance consisting of core relief items, tents and water, hygiene and sanitation supplies (hygiene kits and latrines). Some 692 flood-affected families in Kunar and Nangarhar received a second round of food assistance along with core relief items. Across the East, some 4,677 returnees and IDPs were reached through outpatient services and 6,023 children received vaccinations (OPV, IPV & measles). In total, 12,292 IDPs received humanitarian assistance with further needs assessments underway.
Centre: some 1,200 families displaced by clashes
Clashes in Kijran district continued during the past two weeks over control of the strategic area of Bazar Mushtarak, connecting Pasaband in Ghor Province. According to initial reports, some 8,400 people were displaced to various locations. Kabul witnessed the highest reported number of security incidents on record in July 2019.
West: 27 civilians killed by IED
On 31 July, 27 civilians including women and children were killed when a public bus was struck by an IED detonation on the Hirat- Kandahar highway. Injured people were treated at the Hirat Regional Hospital that had previously received funding from the Afghanistan Humanitarian Fund.
Some 1,593 people were reportedly displaced from their homes in Farah and Badghis to surrounding villages during the last three months by conflict. A joint assessment identified 685 people in need of food, core relief items and water, hygiene and sanitation assistance to be provided in the coming days.
Security situation deteriorates
July experienced the highest number of security incidents in 2019 in Afghanistan.A high-profile attack on the office of Amrulleh Saleh’s Green Trend Party on 28 July in Kabul resulted in the death of 25 people (15 civilians) and an additional 43 civilian injuries. This attack, along with two other suicide attacks in Kabul on 25 July resulted in 122 civilian casualties.
Coordination
The Humanitarian Needs Overview and Humanitarian Response Plan (HRP) process for Afghanistan for 2020 is well underway including the Whole of Afghanistan Assessment. Cluster inputs were received for the HRP mid-year review with the report expected to be ready later this month. The latest quarterly pipeline tracking snapshot will also be released in August. A field coordination workshop will be held in Kabul in late August.
Funding updates
In the First Standard Allocation of 2019, the Afghanistan Humanitarian Fund is finalising grant agreements with partners following the release of US $19.5 million to assist 500,000 people in need of emergency food and agriculture, nutrition, education, shelter, core relief items and protection. Funds for this allocation were provided by the people and governments of Australia, Canada, Germany, Norway, Republic of Korea, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
Iran+ 2 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan
Iran+ 2 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Flash Update 1 – Armed clashes in Kunduz city (31 Aug 2019) - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
Key Points:
Reports of heavy fighting between Non‐State Armed Groups and Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) in Kunduz City.
Exit routes from the city remain contested and there are no confirmed reports of significant displacement so far.
Humanitarian partners continue to monitor the situation and liaise with the Government.
Situation Overview:
Following fighting between the Taliban and Afghanistan National Security Forces in the early hours of 31 August in Kunduz city (PD 1, 2, 3), civilians are reportedly staying in their homes. Over the course of the day, fighting has subsided however numbers of civilian casualties are still unknown. There are currently no reports of large‐scale displacement with exit routes from the city still contested. While there have been some early reports of small‐scale civilian movement outwards to nearby provinces, no significant numbers have been reported.
Humanitarian Impact:
Movement constraints for humanitarian personnel and disruption of phone lines continues to challenge assessment of the situation on the ground. It is not currently possible to evaluate the humanitarian impact of the fighting. Electricity was interrupted last night and any further cuts this evening may create problems for residents who rely on pumped wells for their water needs.
Coordination:
A number of humanitarian organisations are on the ground and stand ready to assess and respond to needs once the security situation allows. OCHA continues to liaise with UNDSS; INSO; humanitarian partners; as well as DoRR at the provincial level and ANDMA at the national level to monitor the situation. Awaaz is also attempting to reach people inside the city by phone to better understand needs and the protection environment.
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Afghanistan | ReliefWeb Response
Afghanistan
Highlights

Humanitarian partners are ramping up response efforts following heavy windstorms, severe rainfall and flash floods that struck multiple districts of Badakhshan, Baghlan, Kunar, Laghman, Nangarhar and Nuristan provinces in eastern and northeastern Afghanistan on 15 and…
Afghanistan is facing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis with a very real risk of systemic collapse and human catastrophe.
PEOPLE IN NEED:29.2M |PLANNED REACH:17.3MINTER-SECTOR REACH:1.9M |OVERALL REACHED:12.1MREQUIREMENTS (US$):$3.06B |RECEIVED (US$):735.2M
This multi-sectoral Response Plan requires approximately $93.6 million to support 114,000 earthquake-affected people in Herat.
Individuals fled their homes dueto conflict. Displacement affects all people differently.
Afghanistan is prone to earthquakes, flooding, drought, landslides and avalanches.
Humanitarian Operational Presence and Operational Capacity.
Concise operational document to support the coordination of humanitarian response in Afghanistan.
Visual of key issues and trends related to the Afghanistan humanitarian response.
Afghanistan
Background
In an increasingly complex operating environment, stronger coordination around humanitarian needs assessments is critical to enable effective assessment of multi-dimensional needs; optimise available resources (including use of trained enumerators); reduce the burden on key informants; and…
Afghanistan
Afghanistan is facing the devastating effects of almost forty years of war, increasing poverty and natural disasters, all of which were amplified by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. At the beginning of 2021, almost 17…
Afghanistan
Overview
Due to security concerns and socio-cultural barriers, some female personnel may face challenges when travelling for work or participating in other professional activities. These persistent barriers to full participation in the workforce have resulted in diminished…
Afghanistan
UN announces Transitional Engagement Framework (TEF) for Afghanistan to save lives, sustain services and preserve community systems
Kabul, Geneva, New York, 26 January 2022 – The UN team in Afghanistan has launched its One-UN Transitional Engagement Framework…

Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services



Title: US-Taliban talks won’t lead to lasting peace | Middle East Institute








Farhan Zahid
Negotiation is one policy option for states seeking a softer, less kinetic approach to countering terrorism. There are a number of cases where it has worked, leading to peace accords, amnesties, and finally decommissioning of terrorist groups, including the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia and the Irish Republican Army. Most of the successful cases in recent years involved either Marxist, nationalist-separatist, or irredentist terrorist groups. Dealing with religious groups in general and Islamists in particular is especially complicated. For example, negotiating with al-Qaeda (AQ) or ISIS, even after 18 years of the Global War on Terrorism, still seems to be a bridge too far. Moreover, Islamist groups often have black-and-white worldviews and absolutist agendas, making negotiations all the more difficult. There are typically few or no moderates within the ranks of Islamist terrorist groups. In the case of Algeria, the Armed Islamic Group (GIA) only came to terms with the government after security forces adopted extremely repressive measures.
When it comes to the Afghan Taliban, much has been written about the ongoing direct peace talks between U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad and an Afghan Taliban delegation headed by Mullah Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanikzai in Doha, Qatar. Peace talks with the Afghan Taliban are not new and this process has run intermittently since 2010 without any positive results. Without going into the details of the previous failures, this article will examine the challenges to negotiating with the Afghan Taliban, laying out six reasons why the prospects for peace in Afghanistan still seem bleak.
The Afghan Taliban’s ideological nature
The Afghan Taliban emerged out of themadrassas(religious schools) of Pakistan in the early 1990s under the leadership of Mullah Mohammad Omar, and since its foundation the movement has been an ideological one steeped in the Pashtunwali tribal code. By the mid-1990s the movement had turned violent and gained backing from Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and the UAE. Eventually, the Afghan Taliban took control of most of Afghanistan and enforced sharia law while declaring its supreme commander the “Leader of the Faithful” (Emir al-Momineen). The Taliban are adherents of the ultra-orthodox Sunni-Deobandi school of thought, which they immediately imposed after consolidating their control, and the five years of their rule (1996-2001) were similar to that of ISIS in parts of Iraq and Syria in 2014-18. Even during their fight against the rival Northern Alliance militia, they did not show any flexibility, hold any talks, or accept any mediation. Given the Afghan Taliban’s rigid, radical Islamist beliefs and Manichean worldview, holding talks with them would be difficult at the best of times, and even expert negotiators like Khalilzad would only be able to achieve limited aims, like convincing them to let foreign forces withdraw without much hindrance.
They have the upper hand and sense victory
Most importantly of all, the Afghan Taliban currently has the upper hand in Afghanistan over the U.S., other foreign troops, and the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF). The ANSF areestimatedto have suffered more than 28,000 casualties since 2015. The Afghan Taliban is clearly in no hurry either. They are not exhausted, nor do they face financial or logistical issues. Their strength wasrecently estimatedat around 60,000 operating in all 34 provinces of Afghanistan, and they are able to contest a large part of Afghan territory.
The Taliban are the descendants of themujahedeenof the Afghan War (1979-89), who fought Soviet occupation. Some senior Taliban leaders, like Mullah Omar, Mullah Rabbani, and Mullah Abdul Salam Zaeef, were veterans of the conflict, while others were the children of Afghan refugees in Pakistan. They believe they defeated the Red Army when it was one of the world’s most powerful militaries, and the new generation of Taliban fighters thinks they can beat the Americans and Europeans now too. Even when they were driven from power after the U.S. invasion in 2001, they stuck to their Islamist narrative and never condemned AQ, Osama bin Laden, or their terrorist attacks on American soil.
In the five years since the withdrawal of most U.S. troops after the end of the surge in 2014, the Taliban have continuously waged war in most Afghan provinces, even briefly occupying the cities ofKunduz in 2017andGhazni in 2018. The sense that victory is near is intoxicating, despite their heavy losses. According to recent case studies of negotiations with terrorist groups, a ceasefire is considered pivotal in peace talks. In the Afghanistan context, however, there has been no ceasefire and talks are ongoing even though the Afghan Taliban continues to carry out attacks on Afghan forces and civilians. As this makes clear, they are not serious participants in talks for or attempts to achieve a peaceful solution. Their shadow government — with governors, a parallel system of justice in villages, and taxes and tolls — indicates they still consider themselves the country’s real rulers. Under these conditions, talks could realistically only be held over safe passage for foreign troops, rather than to secure a more comprehensive deal to ensure a peaceful Afghanistan.
The corrupt and incompetent Afghan government
Another key issue is government corruption and incompetence. The Afghan state has not been able to build its institutions despite strong support from the U.S. and other European countries. The army and police are known for their corruption and highhandedness and have little support among the local population. Absenteeism and desertion are growing problems for the ANSF. Even Afghan army commandos, considered the most effective and highly trained part of the military, have not been able to turn the tide. They have suffered heavy losses of late, shattering the government’s hopes of countering the Afghan Taliban. Given this situation, it is highly unlikely that the Afghan Taliban will hold talks with the internationally-recognized Kabul government to discuss the country’s future.
Despite their overtures to America, the Afghan Taliban are in no mood to hold a similar dialogue with President Ashraf Ghani’s government. The group seems hell-bent on only talking to the U.S. and excluding the Ghani administration. This is quite an impractical demand as the Afghan government is recognized as the legitimate government and represents the country in all world forums. The key question, then, is what is going to happen to the current regime and what will be its role in the future of Afghanistan? For now, this remains unanswered.
A disconnect between leaders and field commanders
According to recent interviews with former Afghan Taliban members and supporters, there is a clear disconnect between Taliban field commanders and the leadership holding talks with the U.S. in Doha. Most of the senior and most seasoned Afghan Taliban leaders have either been killed or permanently settled in the Pakistan-Afghanistan border regions and cities, and the latter have become increasingly disconnected from the fight and their field commanders over the past 18 years. War has become a part-time business for them — and this is especially true of the delegates in Doha. Taliban field commanders and shuras continue to carry out attacks on Afghan security forces and U.S. troops across the country, contravening the spirit of the peace process. The field commanders are only interested in defeating the U.S. and Afghan forces militarily, with an eye to recapturing Kabul and consolidating their control over Afghanistan in the event of a withdrawal of foreign troops. There is a glaring lack of trust between the delegates and the fighters, and the delegates lack the influence needed to persuade the fighters to halt or even reduce the frequency of their attacks while talks are under way. It follows that there is no guarantee that any peace agreement would be honored by the Taliban rank and file in the field. Even if U.S. and Afghan Taliban negotiators can agree on terms, there is no way to implement an accord as things currently stand, and the chances are good that violations of the deal could lead to the collapse of the whole process.
The status of the Emir al-Momineen
Another thorny issue is what will happen to the Afghan Taliban’s head, Mullah Haibatullah Akhunzada, the “Leader of the Faithful.” There has been no discussion about his future role in the post-U.S. context. Religious and fundamentalist movements rely heavily on their emir, and this is particularly true for the Taliban. The office of the Emir al-Momineen was established by Mullah Omar in 1996 and retains a special status. Since the beginning of the Taliban movement, it has played a pivotal and almost cult-like role. The Taliban believe they have revived the institution from the early days of Islam and thus it cannot be changed. The question is how this office could be incorporated into a democratic Afghanistan. The prospects are dim. Even if Afghan Taliban negotiators were to agree, it would likely lead to splintering or fighting between factions.
Al-Qaeda and foreign fighters
First under Osama bin Laden and now under Ayman al-Zawahiri, AQ’s emirs have consistently pledged allegiance to the Taliban, and as a result, technically speaking, AQ is part and parcel of the broader Afghan Taliban movement and under its patronage. The Taliban leadership has not severed ties with AQ, nor has it condemned or restrained its actions. For the Taliban, AQ was a guest that later became part of their movement, and there is no indication at all that the Afghan Taliban would cut their ties with AQ and other Islamist terrorist groups.
Conclusion and implications
The talks between U.S. Representative Khalilzad and the Afghan Taliban delegation led by Mullah Abbas Stanikzai appear not to be leading toward a peaceful settlement for Afghanistan. Instead, they seem to be paving the way for a peaceful withdrawal of U.S. forces. This feels like déjà vu and a repeat of the 1989 Geneva Accords, when the Soviet Union hammered out an exit strategy and left behind a frail pro-Moscow regime in Kabul. Repeating this mistake would be disastrous for Afghanistan and the region and would mean forfeiting 18 years of U.S. gains. The Afghan Taliban is stubborn and believes it holds the upper hand; it is in no mood to hold talks with or even recognize the Ghani regime in Kabul. This means a civil war is in the offing in Afghanistan with devastating effects for the whole region.
President Trump is seeking an exit strategy without considering the ramifications. A hasty departure would strike a tremendous blow to U.S. security policy in the region. Russia and Iran would have a field day, and Pakistan would also likely play its cards in Afghanistan. For China an Afghanistan under Taliban rule would likely become a safe haven for militant Islamist Uighurs, including Uighur fighters of the Turkestan Islamic Party (TIP) returning from Syria, and Beijing’s investments in Afghanistan’s minerals and other natural resources could be at risk as well.
Under this scenario, the future of the Afghan government appears bleak, but there is a slight possibility that it may survive the Taliban onslaught if the U.S. government continues to bankroll it, unlike the Soviets, who cut off all aid to President Mohammad Najibullah in 1992, causing his government to promptly collapse. But the odds aren’t good, and if the bulk of U.S. troops withdraw by 2020 and the rest follow in the next few years, Afghanistan would doubtless wind up back in the headlines soon, and might even regain its old status as one of the world’s most troubled regions.

Farhan Zahid writes on counter-terrorism, al-Qaeda, Pakistani al-Qaeda- linked groups, ISIS, Islamist violent non-state actors in Pakistan, jihadi ideologies, and the Afghan Taliban. The views expressed in this article are his own.
Photo credit: KARIM JAAFAR/AFP/Getty Image
The Middle East Institute (MEI) is an independent, non-partisan, non-for-profit, educational organization. It does not engage in advocacy and its scholars’ opinions are their own. MEI welcomes financial donations, but retains sole editorial control over its work and its publications reflect only the authors’ views. For a listing of MEI donors, please clickhere.
media@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x241
events@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x202
development@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x203
mej@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x205
communications@mei.edu
202-785-1141
Middle East Institute1763 N St. NW, Washington D.C. 20036

© 2018 Middle East Institute All Rights Reserved |Accessibility Policy| Built bySocial Driver.

Title: The Civil Challenges to Peace in Afghanistan
Photo: WAKIL KOHSAR/AFP/Getty Images
ReportbyAnthony H. Cordesman
Published August 20, 2019
The Afghan War has entered a critical period in which the U.S. is actively seeking a peace settlement with the Taliban, and doing so in spite of the fact that it is negotiating without the full participation of the Afghan government. Its options now consist of finding some form of peace, leaving the country without any form of victory or security, or fighting indefinitely in a country whose central government has no near or mid-term capability to either defeat its opponents or survive without massive military and civil aid.
Peace is a highly uncertain option. There are no official descriptions of the terms of the peace that the Administration is now seeking to negotiate, but media reports indicate that it may be considering a full withdrawal of its military support within one to two years of a ceasefire, and other reports indicate that it is considering a 50% cut in U.S. military personnel even if a peace is not negotiated.
As of late-August 2019, the Taliban continued to reject any formal peace negotiations with the Afghan government, and its military activity and acts of violence while it negotiated with the United States. Terrorist groups like ISIS-K add to the threat, as do the many splits within the Afghani government and political structure. The Taliban has not encouraged further ceasefires, or shown any clear willingness to accept a lasting peace on any terms but its own. It may well see peace negotiations as a means of negotiating a withdrawal of U.S. and other allied forces and a prelude to a peace that it could exploit to win control of Afghanistan.
At the same time, the other options are no better. They either mean leaving without a peace and the near certain collapse of the Afghan government, or continuing the war indefinitely with no clear timeframe for victory or the emergence of an Afghan government that can fight on its own or act as an effective civil government.
Much of the analysis of these three options has focused on the possible terms of the peace, the immediate progress in the fighting, and/or the coming Afghan election and Afghanistan’s immediate political problems. These are all important issues, but they do not address the basic problems in Afghan security forces that will limit its military capabilities indefinitely into the future, or the scale of the civil problems in Afghanistan that have given it failed governance and made it the equivalent of a failed state, and that will shape its future in actually implementing any peace or in attempting to continue the war.
Much does depend on current trends in the war, and the extent to which the Afghan Government or the Taliban are winning control and influence over the country. Much also depends on the degree to which the Afghan government forces can stand on their own if a peace negotiation leads to the withdrawal of U.S. and Resolute Support forces, or if the U.S. makes major further force cuts.
The Burke Chair at CSIS has already circulated a report that draws on recent official reporting by the Resolute Support Command, the Office of the Secretary of Defense (1225 Report), the Lead Inspector General for Overseas Contingency Operations (LIG-OCO), the Special Inspector General for Afghan Reconstruction (SIGAR), the United Nations, and a variety of outside sources.
That report is entitledThe State of the Fighting in the Afghan War in Mid 2019. It is available on the CSIS web site athttps://www.csis.org/analysis/state-fighting-afghan-war-mid-2019. This report compares the key data and conclusion in each recent official report to show their assessments of the threat, and the problems in estimating Government vs. Taliban influence and control. It examines key problems in the reporting on the levels of violence and civilian casualties, and in the estimates of the terrorist threat.
It is important to note that it also addresses the cost of the war, the changing size of the U.S. and allied commitment, and the fact that total military manning is a terrible measure of the role the U.S. must play if the war continues. The Afghan forces are not making anything like the progress needed to stand on their own.
They are not, however, dependent on some total U.S. military manpower figure. They are dependent on massive increases in U.S. combat air support of Afghan troops – much of it coming from remotely piloted strike and IS&R systems; on direct U.S. land combat support of elite Afghan Army and Police units, and on changes to the train and assist effort that now operate down to the Afghan combat unit or Kanak level. It is this U.S. support that its critical to the survival of Afghan force and the Afghan government – if a peace is not reached or successful and to enforcing a peace if it is challenged by the Taliban.
The fighting and Taliban threat, however, are only half of Afghanistan’s problems. The second half consists of its massive failure in governance, in economic and social development, in coping with the its rapidly growing population, and in dealing with the fact that it has become a “narco-economy” to a significant extent.
The problems are described in detail in a second study entitledThe Civil Challenges to Peace in Afghanistan.This report isavailable on the CSIS web site athttps://csis-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/s3fs-public/publication/190820_Civil_Side_Peace_Afghanistan.pdf.
The report is divided into the following major sections:
The polling metrics in this section, and those that follow, present significant problems. Afghan perceptions are difficult to poll. Direct interviews involve serious risks, and efforts to poll by telephone present the problem that most Afghans do not have phones, and those that do are likely to be wealthier and more urban.
The Asia Foundation has, however, established a long record of success in polling Afghan perceptions. These polls still indicate that most Afghans hope for a successful outcome of the war, but this year’s poll shows a sharp drop in popular confidence that Afghanistan is moving in the right direction, and far less optimism among every other ethnic group than among Pashtuns.
The key reasons for this pessimism are broadly based. Some 61% of the population felt pessimistic, and more than 70% cited security, 30%-48% cited the economy, and 30%-34% cited governance as among the top two reasons.
The polls also show that the percent of Afghans who fear for their safety has increased by 31% since 2006. It also shows a high rate of fear when traveling, and when encountering International forces, and an even higher rate when encountering ISIS/Daesh and Taliban forces.
Broad popular perceptions of the ANA and ANP are relatively good, however, although most Afghans recognize they are still heavily dependent on outside support. The same is not true of perceptions of the Afghan government – which are shown later in this report. Satisfaction with the government has dropped steadily since 2007, as has confidence in the government.
All levels of government and the justice system are seen as corrupt, although perceptions of corruption have improved since 2016. To a lesser degree, key elements of the ANSF are also seen as corrupt – in spite of the generally favorable attitudes towards the security services.
The reporting and metrics in this section show the weaknesses and level of corruption in the Afghan government, and that the World Bank ranks Afghanistan as one of the worst governed countries in the world. They show that nearly two decades of reform efforts have only had a marginal impact in developing the kind of central government that Afghanistan needs, as much because of its ethnic, sectarian, and tribal divisions – and its fractured and divisive politics – as because of the weaknesses in the structure of Afghan governance.
Work by the World Bank shows that the Central government is making progress in raising its revenues, but no source indicates that there is clear evidence that it is using its funds more effectively or with less corruption. The World Bank and SIGAR also show that the Government remains critically dependent on massive outside aid to fund its overall security and civil budgets, and no source indicates that this dependence will drop sharply in the near and mid-term.
Work by SIGAR shows that the central government is to some extent the government of “Kabulstan,” rather than the entire country, and that provincial, district, and local government all have serious problems. SIGAR also reports that the role of the Taliban in providing de facto governance and rule of law continues to expand.
It is clear that many Districts have no central government office. SIGAR quotes reports that 64 Districts (16%) have no central Government office of any kind, and many more only have a meaningful Central Government presence in – or near – the capital.
As of August 20, 2019, theLong War Journalestimated that 66 (17%) of 398 Central Government Districts throughout the country are under Taliban control and 192 (48%) are contested. The government does control a larger share of the population. The same estimate indicates that only 3.7 million (11%) of a total of some 33 million people are under Taliban control, and 13.5 million (41%) are contested.https://www.longwarjournal.org/mapping-taliban-control-in-afghanistan).
Reliable data are lacking on the extent to which Afghanistan provides a functioning rule of law. It is clear, however, that many courts and aspects of the legal system are not fully functional. Corruption and power brokering have a major impact at every level of law enforcement and court proceedings, and that courts do not function effectively in a number of areas and districts – including those controlled by the Taliban, although no reliable maps or detailed analyses seem to exist of how serious these problems are.
What is clear is that LIG and SIGAR reporting indicate that the Afghan National Police and Afghan Local Police currently suffer from serious problems with corruption and political influence, and a series of reform efforts has not prepared them to be properly effective in ether paramilitary operations or law enforcement.
These problems will present new challenges if the ANP are tasked with helping to enforce the peace, and if the Afghan government is to create an truly functional legal and law enforcement system.
The reporting in this section shows that Afghanistan is one of the poorest countries in the world, and one of the least developed. It also warns that many past estimates of future progress – including many official estimates issued by the U.S. government — have proved to be grossly over-optimistic or wrong. This makes some key issues hard to address. A substantial amount of the reporting on progress in medical services, life expectancy, women’s rights, and education is uncertain at best, and probably sharply exaggerated for political reasons.
The reporting is far more reliable in showing that much of the population lives in dire poverty and faces serious problems in terms of health. The data also warn that national economic growth in PPP terms is often overestimated, and that some reporting on Afghan development, health, and education has been heavily politicized to exaggerate what has been real progress since the fall of the Taliban.
The reporting also highlights the fact that exaggerated estimates of the future impact of major shifts in the mining, petroleum, “new silk road,” and pipeline aspects of the Afghan economy have consistently proven to be unrealistic.
Afghan perceptions and expectations are generally shaped by these realities, and are far lower than those in fully developed nations. At the same time, demands for jobs, less corruption, and economic progress that actually reaches broadly in terms of benefits is still real. There are no major indicators that the Afghan government is yet taking adequate steps to meet these hopes.
The final section in this survey addresses problems in population growth, and a resulting level of pressure on the Afghan economy and stability that already approaches crisis levels.
The U.S. Census Bureau estimates that the population has risen from 8.2 million in 1950 to 15.0 million in 1980, 22.5 million in 2000, and 35.8 million in 2019. It is estimated to rise to 45.7 million in 2030 and 63.8 million in 2,050.
These pressures have created a youth bulge that will create a massive demand for new jobs for at least the next decade, and one that the Afghan economy currently cannot possibly meet. Youth unemployment and underemployment are already at a crisis level. They are also raising the dependency ratio of children and the aged on the active members of the work force to levels that present serious problems.
More is also involved than population pressure per se. The Afghan population is deeply fragmented along sectarian, ethnic, and tribal lines, and any effort to achieve more support for the central government, a working peace and some form of stability must address these differences and meet the needs of all the major factions in Afghan society.
These problems are compounded by a rising level of urbanization that has been accelerated by the desire to join a more modern economy than is present in rural areas, and by the need for security. Afghan cities cannot adequately support or employ this level of urbanization. At the same time, the pressure to leave the agricultural sector is compounded by droughts, and the fact that market-oriented agriculture needs investment and machines more than added labor.
Afghanistan plays a critical role in the global supply of opiates. It is clear that massive U.S. efforts to make major cuts in Afghan production have only had sporadic success, and have become less successful with time as Afghanistan has become more dependent on opiate exports as a key source of income and hard currency. It is also clear from UNDOC and SIGAR reporting that weather, plant diseases, and demand have been far more important in determining the size of the opium crop than efforts at eradication and persuading farmers to find substitute crops.
The metrics in this section highlight both the growth of opium production and the issues surrounding its role in shaping Afghan macroeconomics. The work by SIGAR on this subject is particularly important because it indicates that opium is a major source of Afghan economic growth, and is Afghanistan’s most important export. It also shows a high correlation between opium production and Taliban control and influence and indicates that opium plays a key role in financing the war as well as in areas where power brokers still operate with some degree of independence from the central government.
Center for Strategic and International Studies1616 Rhode Island Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20036
Tel: 202.887.0200Fax: 202.775.3199
SeeMedia Pagefor more interview, contact, and citation details.
©2024 Center for Strategic & International Studies. All Rights Reserved.

Title: No title found


Title: DW reporters' firsthand account from US-Taliban talks – DW – 08/30/2019
Journalists are eagerly awaiting a breakthrough in the US-Taliban talks in Doha, Qatar as the two sides continue to iron out details of a deal. But reporters are faced with difficult conditions in getting the truth out.
In Qatar, foreign reporters are required to comply with a number of rules and regulations that limit their journalistic coverage. Although DW managed to get permission to cover the ongoing US-Taliban talks in the capital Doha, we were not allowed to relay anything live from the city — apart from a pre-recorded Skype report presented as live — partly because the paperwork takes a long time.
The US-Taliban negotiationsare also a complex affair to deal with journalistically. It's the ninth round of bilateral talks between the two sides, and aims to end the 18-year-long violent conflict in Afghanistan. The Afghan government is not involved — yet — but if a deal is finalized this time around, there could be an intra-Afghan dialogue between the insurgents and government officials.
So, is a US-Taliban deal imminent? It's unclear at the moment. DW was told that US and Taliban representatives are discussing the minor details of a potential agreement. These details, we've been told, are crucial to avoid any political and legal confusion in the future. So a deal could be finalized at any moment, but a formal announcement seems unlikely at this point in time. And there is a possibility that the talks will collapse.
US President Donald Trump, who has said several times that he wants to end the Afghan conflict, recently remarked that he won't pull out all US troops from Afghanistan even if a deal with the Taliban is signed. This statement can only complicate matters and prolong talks. It could also mean that the US' self-imposed September 1 deadline to strike a deal could be missed.
Read more:US to reduce troops in Afghanistan by 5,000
Journalistic ordeal
As if the Gulf conditions were not a big enough hindrance for international journalists, the negotiation's venue is also a reporter's nightmare.
Journalists are not allowed to interview anyone inside the venue. They are also not allowed to take photographs. There is a very limited flow of information from the Taliban and US officials to reporters. They may get some hints here and there, and there is a lot to speculate about on just what is happening inside the conference halls.
These conditions, at times, may mislead journalists. Incorrect information has thus gone out to the media. For instance, at the start of the ninth round of talks, some Afghan media outlets claimed that a deal has been sealed, which, of course, is not the case.
Some foreign reporters told DW that they were not even allowed inside the building at the start of the current talks, although things have been easier in comparison to previous rounds. Restrictions started to ease slightly as the negotiations progressed. Now journalists can sit in an assigned coffee room, use their laptops and phones, and are also served food and drinks.
Read more:Taliban-US hold fresh talks in Doha amid peace deal hopes
Journalists can also interact with Taliban and US representatives, but only during short breaks, and only when they come out of the conference rooms. No one gives out much information about the ongoing discussions though. Interactions are always very short, as the security officials are strict about the rules.
The US-Taliban talks are long and intense. They usually start around noon and continue until three or four in the morning. This means that reporters waiting for news also have to stay at the venue for 15, 16 hours. They can't leave as they don't want to miss out on any information.
The main sticking points
Zalmay Khalilzad, the US special envoy for Afghan peace talks, was set to travel to Kabul to discuss a final US-Taliban deal with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and his government officials. Journalists were told that he would leave on Wednesday, but his visit was postponed, probably because the deal needed more work.
The withdrawal of US troops is another issue that requires intense negotiations. Taliban members said they don't expect Washington to pull out all their soldiers in the first phase, but there could be another withdrawal depending on a post-deal situation in Afghanistan.
Read more:Afghanistan's rights activists express concern over US-Taliban talks
The release of Taliban prisoners is also a major topic. A list of prisoners, who will be released as a result of a deal, is being discussed. It has not yet been confirmed whether Anas Haqqani, the incarcerated Haqqani Network member, is on it. In recent years, the US has been particularly critical of the Pakistan-based network, which Washington and Kabul say targets international and local troops stationed in Afghanistan. The militant group is closely aligned to the Taliban.
One of the major US demands from the Taliban is that, as a counterterrorism measure, the insurgents pledge to cease attacks on US troops and also expel foreign militants that could harm US interests from the areas under the Taliban control.
The Trump administration also wants the insurgents to stick to the agreement conditions after a deal, which includes the Taliban holding talks with the Afghan government and imposing a countrywide ceasefire. Washington has made clear that a violation of these conditions could force it to keep the remaining troops inside Afghanistan.
Read more:Opinion: Afghanistan's roller-coaster history
Trump's unpredictability
We also have to keep in mind that both negotiating teams consult and report to their leaderships on a daily basis — Taliban members to their commanders, and US representatives to Washington.
Also, any final agreement will have to go through President Trump. This has the potential to be unpredictable. And Afghan President Ghani could also reject the deal, as he is pushing for a presidential election in September.
Read more:Afghanistan's president rejects foreign interference
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
Every evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.

Title: Afghanistan Endgame, Part Two: How Does This War End? | Council on Foreign Relations
Climate Change
Global Climate Agreements: Successes and Failures
Backgrounderby Lindsay MaizlandDecember 5, 2023Renewing America
Myanmar
Myanmar’s Troubled History
Backgrounderby Lindsay MaizlandJanuary 31, 2022
Health
How Tobacco Laws Could Help Close the Racial Gap on Cancer
Interactiveby Olivia  Angelino,Thomas J. Bollyky, Elle Ruggiero and Isabella TurilliFebruary 1, 2023Global Health Program
Iran
Israel and the Middle East at a Crossroads: How Tehran’s Terror Campaign Threatens the U.S. and our Allies
TestimonybyElliott AbramsSeptember 19, 2024
Oil and Petroleum Products
Academic Webinar: The Geopolitics of Oil
Webinarwith Carolyn Kissane andIrina A. FaskianosApril 12, 2023
Economics
C. Peter McColough Series on International Economics With Lael Brainard
Virtual Eventwith Lael Brainard andRoger W. Ferguson Jr.March 2, 2021C. Peter McColough Series on International Economics
This is a guest post byMelissa Skorka. She served as a strategic adviser to the commander of International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan from 2011-14 and is a doctoral candidate at Oxford University’s Changing Character of War Centre.
This post is the second in a two-part series on terrorism in Afghanistan. The first ishere.
More on:
Afghanistan
Afghanistan War
Pakistan
Taliban
Al-Qaeda
Many senior scholars and analystsarguethat the “forever war” in Afghanistan long-ago evolved, expanding from “a limited focus on counterterrorism to a broad nation-building effort without discussion about the implications for the duration and intensity of the military campaign.” In the latter years of Barack Obama’s presidency, that broader effort was scaled down dramatically, but it was extended in the face of a renewed understanding of Afghanistan’s potential to serve as a Petri dish for transnational terrorist organizations such as the self-proclaimed Islamic State and al-Qaeda. Consequently, as a recent Center for Strategic and International Studies report concludes: “After expending nearly $800 billion and suffering over 2,400 killed, the United States is still there, having achieved at best a stalemate.”
Recent empiricalevidencesuggests a larger significance to the expanding influence of modern terrorism. The ways Islamist militants are effectively adapting to Western nation-building efforts indicate that they have become ineluctably political actors. Rather than focus on constructing new, parallel governance institutions, like the “shadow” structures of the Quetta Shura Taliban in southern Afghanistan, the Haqqani network has adopted a far more opportunistic approach:infiltratingthe existing state architecture.
As the Haqqani network has found sanctuary in the largely lawless Afghanistan-Pakistan border region, and success with its decades-long practice of latently co-opting the Afghan state, the terrorist network stands ready to usurp the Kabul regime’s institutions of governance in highly-contested territory. The jury is still out on the potential outcomes of arapidU.S. withdrawal. The probability of acollapseof the central Afghan government could be low, but the consequences would be severe, both sub-nationally and internationally. If the allied Taliban-Haqqani network factions take over in Kabul, U.S. decision-makers would need to consider the risk of destabilization or even civil war spilling across international borders, posing a serious challenge to Islamabad’s security. (The United States has longviewedPakistan as its foremost strategic priority in the region and a state too nuclear to fail.) In such a scenario, the challenges inherent in a potential U.S.-supported effort toretakeKabul and other population centers would prove complex, as the Obama administrationlearnedin 2014 in Syria and Iraq. But, in Afghanistan, the danger of an Islamist militant resurgence would require the United States to combat newlyemboldenedterror proxies directly sponsored by Pakistan, an ostensible U.S. ally, and protected under its “nuclear umbrella”.
Accelerating the withdrawal of foreign forces would likely facilitate the Haqqani network’s most resonantraison d’être, as a senior Afghan Taliban leader with close ties to Mullah Omar, interviewed for this blog recently suggested:
Pakistan is protecting Sirajuddin Haqqani in the hope of continuing jihad by proxy. As U.S. forces leave Afghanistan, Haqqani will acquire two countries, Pakistan and Afghanistan. Success in Afghanistan will mean our Muslim brothers in the region, and around the world, will have managed to claim back our own rights in our own Islamic country. Sirajuddin understands that.
If American and NATO forces were extricated from the region and then were returned, they would find themselves fighting in territory dominated by the al-Qaeda-affiliated Haqqani alliances, which are even nowinfluencingthe Afghan political order from within Pakistan,infiltratingsoutheastern Afghanistan,reachingup to thenorthernprovinces, and even stretching to its western border withIran. Here policymakers are implored to ask: should the U.S. withdraw so precipitously, and then have to return to address the chaos that results?
More on:
Afghanistan
Afghanistan War
Pakistan
Taliban
Al-Qaeda
In the post-2001 Afghan war, for as long as the West has perceived the Haqqani network as a purely military actor or criminal syndicate, it has often overlooked its political adaptation tactics, and in turn come to an incomplete understanding of its trajectory. It is difficult to verify the overarching goals of the Haqqani network’s next-generation terror model. But if Sirajuddin Haqqani indeed uses violence tofacilitaterelationships with state and non-state actors, to co-opt allies, and to neutralize rivals, then his true strategic ends will be not only to survive the variety of economic, environmental, and security challenges the network faces, but also to engage in selective violent acts in order to further garner power.
Washington should account for the Haqqani network’s more recent power consolidation, coupled with its symbiotic relationship with al-Qaeda, to ensure Afghan soil never again becomes a safe haven for terrorists. This is ostensibly a condition for complete U.S. withdrawal, asstatedby Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in June 2019.
However, the long-standing support for the Haqqani network by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) has further complicated U.S counterterrorism policy, particularly when the U.S. should further adapt its approaches in the Afghanistan-Pakistan region to address the true nature of the threat: a war in which Haqqani and al Qaeda affiliates, and the ISI, allcompetefor power, and sometimescollude.
This collusion takes many forms. For example, as senior U.S. intelligence officials have observed, the ISI gives advance warning to the Haqqani network prior to launching select military operations in order toprotectits terror proxy. This was perhaps best exemplified during the 2014 Zarb-e Azb counterterrorismoperation, which wasincompletelyexecuted as the Pakistani Army did not fight all militant organizationsequally. In this case, although Islamabad partnered with the United States in select counterterrorism efforts against anti-Pakistan groups (including some elements of al-Qaeda and the Pakistani Taliban), itcontinuedto serve aspatronto anti-Indian and anti-Afghan terrorists. Indeed, the ISI has stillnot movedagainst the Haqqani network’s most influential actors, as an Afghan tribal elder in Haqqani’s ancestral homeland observed:
When Pakistan faces pressure from the West and needs ‘political breathing space,’ the ISI temporarily arrests them or merely provides the U.S. with actionable intelligence for targeting select commanders, but Pakistan will never give the West drone coordinates for Haqqani’s most important leaders.
The United States, in concert with the legitimate Afghan government, should continue to pursue talks with the Afghan Taliban. But let us not neglect reality: the crescent of al-Qaeda and the Haqqani network’s history is long, and it bends toward terror. Sirajuddin could be ready for peace, but he is also ready to win the war, and he marches in lockstep with his al-Qaeda base.
Blog Post
Article
Backgrounder

Title: In Afghanistan, Is Sirajuddin Haqqani Ready for Peace? - Defense One
Afghan security personnel secure the site of a deadly attack in Kabul, Afghanistan, Sunday, July 28, 2019.Rahmat Gul/AP

Stay Connected
Melissa Skorka,Council on Foreign Relations
As the Donald J. Trump administrationaimsto end a “‘slowly deteriorating stalemate,’ with ‘no military victory’ possible,” President Trump has supported withdrawing thousands of U.S. troops from Afghanistan in exchange for peace with the Afghan Taliban. According to someaccounts, the reduction of U.S. forces seemsimminent, irrespective of the peace negotiation.Notwithstanding whether Washington pulls out U.S. combat forces, Trump said he would leave “a very strong intelligence” presence in Afghanistan, which he calls the “Harvard of terrorists.” If this strategy is to achieve its security goals, it should account for a fundamental concern that has not received sufficient attention: how modern terrorist organizations usurp U.S. foreign policy in order to survive and even prosper by adapting to Western counterterrorism measures in insidious and often underestimated ways.The Haqqani network, a terror network withclose tiesto the Taliban, al-Qaeda, and Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), hasevolvedover the last half-century andnowexerts unprecedentedinfluencein the Afghan insurgency, according to the UN ISIL (Da’esh), Al-Qaida and Taliban Monitoring Team. In fact, as the UN Team stated in an interview for this blog:
There is no evidence that the Taliban have broken or will in future break their intrinsic relationship with the Haqqani Network and Al-Qaida. Recent reporting would suggest that these connections are actually stronger than at any time in the past 18 years. Calculations over withdrawal from Afghanistan should take account of the risk of undermining prospects for a durable peace by empowering and emboldening these groups.
The Haqqani network has increasingly become apotentforce, one whose relationship withstateandnon-statepatronswill determine what sort of country Afghanistan becomes, perhaps even more than the plans of the government in Kabul and the Taliban. The success of the Trump administration’s peace strategy willdependon whether it can eliminate, co-opt, or separate the Haqqani network from al-Qaeda and the ISI, two organizations that for decades have relied on terror proxies to advance strategic interests in the Afghanistan-Pakistan region.
Despite advanced counterterrorism measures, the Haqqani network’s resilience and growth demonstrate that it is experienced at subverting U.S. policy, and that it will likely continue to do so in the next phase of conflict. The terrorists’ subversionstrategyis reflected by their political evolution. Since 9/11, the Haqqani network hasgrownfrom a relatively small, tribal-based jihadi network into one of the most influential terrorist organizations in South Asia. This power consolidation is reflected in the prominent role of the syndicate’s leader, Sirajuddin Haqqani, who is widely understood to be operating as the Afghan Taliban’s second-in-command since2015, leading all military operations for the overall insurgency.
Among its operations, the Haqqani network masterminded attacks on theU.S. Embassyand NATO headquarters in Kabul in 2011, on theU.S. consulatein Herat Province in 2013, and allegedly on aU.S. basein Khost Province in 2009, which killed seven CIA operatives. The group detained U.S. Army Sergeant BoweBergdahl, New York Times reporter DavidRohde, and U.S. aid worker WarrenWeinstein, who died in the custody of the terrorists, U.S. officials say.
Unlike the majority of Afghanistan-based terrorist groups, the Haqqani network has succeeded in cultivating a posture of “international jihad” for nearly the last half-century, in part because it has forged relationships with a diverse set of politically or ideologically like-mindedsupporters.These include senioral-Qaedamembers andforeign fighter volunteersfrom around the world, factions of the Pakistani Taliban, and wealthyprivatedonorsfrom the Arab States of the Persian Gulf.
Counterterrorism specialists Vahid Brown and Don Rasslerdemonstratethat “the Haqqani network has been more important to the development and sustainment of al‐Qa’ida and the global jihad than any other single actor or group.”
Today, the Haqqani network now includes nearly every Deobandi jihadi faction operating in the settled areas of Pakistan–factions that would cease to exist if not for Sirajuddin Haqqani’s provision of protection and patronage, U.S. officials say. Washington should now consider fresh data about the Haqqani network’s expanding influence in lands far beyond South Asia. General John R. Allen, the former commander of the United States-led coalition in Afghanistan, and the U.S. special envoy spearheading the fight in Iraq and Syria against the self-proclaimed Islamic State, observed that the United States has been concerned about the Haqqani network’s expansion beyond South Asia: “Although many Jihadi groups are sending their rank and file to places like Syria, few of these groups have the close relations with al Qaeda, media savvy, military capability, and technical expertise for suicide attacks like the Haqqani network.”
The idea that terrorists “evolve” is not novel, but today's scale and pace of adaptation are altogether new, and, some counterterrorism experts believe, are too often underappreciated. Modern terrorists adapt to new opportunities and threats by using the internet to build increasingly powerful global networks to command forces and radicalize new adherents, by weaponizing abundantly available advanced technology such as commercial drones, and by rapidly exploiting global political and societal changes.
U.S. policymakers need to consider not just the direction of the trend, but also its strength and speed. As Retired Lieutenant General Michael Nagata, former Strategy Director of the U.S. National Counterterrorism Center, notes:
The rise of the Islamic State (ISIS) was a revelation. In only five years, ISIS's global network is today larger than al Qaeda's despite decades of effort, and all terrorist groups are mimicking ISIS' innovations. In South Asia, where we face a nexus of al Qaeda, Taliban, Haqqani, and ISIS, our search for a negotiated settlement must confront the question of whether we can ‘out-innovate’ the adversary. It is unwise to assume that our traditional approaches will suffice… these adversaries adapt too quickly.
Washington has relied on Islamabad to resolve post-9/11 security threats, especially with regard to al-Qaeda and the Haqqani network. Pakistan has exploited this Western policy by supporting Islamist proxies under the “nuclear umbrella” to buttress the state’s own narrow strategic agenda. As the Trump administration and U.S. officials now regularly observe, Pakistan isharboringone of the highestconcentrationsof U.S.-designated Foreign Terrorist Organizations in the world. American officials quietly placeblamefor Islamabad offeringsanctuaryfor violent extremists in the region squarely on the ISI’s shoulders. The ISI continues, as it has for many years, to view the Haqqani network as particularly valuable to Pakistan’s strategic interests in anticipation of a post-NATO Afghanistan. The Haqqani network’s cohesion and reach have helped the ISI angle toward its long sought-after “strategic depth,” a euphemism for a compliant regime in Kabul to avoid Pakistan’s encirclement by India.
Publicly, the Haqqani network keeps its relationship with state and non-state sponsors of terror opaque. But empirical evidence is clear: the Haqqani network has shownno signit is willing to end its decades-long support of al-Qaeda or provision ofhavenfor terrorist groups with global ambitions. Over nearly four decades, the Haqqani network has created a fountainhead of jihad by facilitating al-Qaeda and adapting to the various changes that have swept the region.  Holding peace talks with the Taliban is futile if the United States is not also committed to disaggregating and defeating the ascendant Haqqani network and its partners.
This piece,first publishedby the Council on Foreign Relations, is used with permission.
NEXT STORY:The End of the Dan Coats Era
Help us tailor content specifically for you:

Title: Afghanistan Endgame, Part One: Is Sirajuddin Haqqani Ready for Peace? | Council on Foreign Relations
Climate Change
Global Climate Agreements: Successes and Failures
Backgrounderby Lindsay MaizlandDecember 5, 2023Renewing America
Myanmar
Myanmar’s Troubled History
Backgrounderby Lindsay MaizlandJanuary 31, 2022
Health
How Tobacco Laws Could Help Close the Racial Gap on Cancer
Interactiveby Olivia  Angelino,Thomas J. Bollyky, Elle Ruggiero and Isabella TurilliFebruary 1, 2023Global Health Program
Iran
Israel and the Middle East at a Crossroads: How Tehran’s Terror Campaign Threatens the U.S. and our Allies
TestimonybyElliott AbramsSeptember 19, 2024
Oil and Petroleum Products
Academic Webinar: The Geopolitics of Oil
Webinarwith Carolyn Kissane andIrina A. FaskianosApril 12, 2023
Economics
C. Peter McColough Series on International Economics With Lael Brainard
Virtual Eventwith Lael Brainard andRoger W. Ferguson Jr.March 2, 2021C. Peter McColough Series on International Economics
This is a guest post by Melissa Skorka. She served as a strategic adviser to the commander of International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan from 2011-14 and is a doctoral candidate at Oxford University’s Changing Character of War Centre.
This post is the first in a two-part series on terrorism in Afghanistan. The second ishere.
More on:
Afghanistan
Afghanistan War
Taliban
Al-Qaeda
Terrorism and Counterterrorism
As the Donald J. Trump administrationaimsto end a “‘slowly deteriorating stalemate,’ with ‘no military victory’ possible,” President Trump has supported withdrawing thousands of U.S. troops from Afghanistan in exchange for peace with the Afghan Taliban. According to someaccounts, the reduction of U.S. forces seemsimminent, irrespective of the peace negotiation.
Notwithstanding whether Washington pulls out U.S. combat forces, Trump said he would leave “a very strong intelligence” presence in Afghanistan, which he calls the “Harvard of terrorists.” If this strategy is to achieve its security goals, it should account for a fundamental concern that has not received sufficient attention: how modern terrorist organizations usurp U.S. foreign policy in order to survive and even prosper by adapting to Western counterterrorism measures in insidious and often underestimated ways.
The Haqqani network, a terror network withclose tiesto the Taliban, al-Qaeda, and Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), hasevolvedover the last half-century andnowexerts unprecedentedinfluencein the Afghan insurgency, according to the UN ISIL (Da’esh), Al-Qaida and Taliban Monitoring Team. In fact, as the UN Team stated in an interview for this blog:
There is no evidence that the Taliban have broken or will in future break their intrinsic relationship with the Haqqani Network and Al-Qaida. Recent reporting would suggest that these connections are actually stronger than at any time in the past 18 years. Calculations over withdrawal from Afghanistan should take account of the risk of undermining prospects for a durable peace by empowering and emboldening these groups.
The Haqqani network has increasingly become apotentforce, one whose relationship withstateandnon-statepatronswill determine what sort of country Afghanistan becomes, perhaps even more than the plans of the government in Kabul and the Taliban. The success of the Trump administration’s peace strategy willdependon whether it can eliminate, co-opt, or separate the Haqqani network from al-Qaeda and the ISI, two organizations that for decades have relied on terror proxies to advance strategic interests in the Afghanistan-Pakistan region.
Despite advanced counterterrorism measures, the Haqqani network’s resilience and growth demonstrate that it is experienced at subverting U.S. policy, and that it will likely continue to do so in the next phase of conflict. The terrorists’ subversionstrategyis reflected by their political evolution. Since 9/11, the Haqqani network hasgrownfrom a relatively small, tribal-based jihadi network into one of the most influential terrorist organizations in South Asia. This power consolidation is reflected in the prominent role of the syndicate’s leader, Sirajuddin Haqqani, who is widely understood to be operating as the Afghan Taliban’s second-in-command since2015, leading all military operations for the overall insurgency.
More on:
Afghanistan
Afghanistan War
Taliban
Al-Qaeda
Terrorism and Counterterrorism
Among its operations, the Haqqani network masterminded attacks on theU.S. Embassyand NATO headquarters in Kabul in 2011, on theU.S. consulatein Herat Province in 2013, and allegedly on aU.S. basein Khost Province in 2009, which killed seven CIA operatives. The group detained U.S. Army Sergeant BoweBergdahl,New York Timesreporter DavidRohde, and U.S. aid worker WarrenWeinstein, who died in the custody of the terrorists, U.S. officials say.
Unlike the majority of Afghanistan-based terrorist groups, the Haqqani network has succeeded in cultivating a posture of “international jihad” for nearly the last half-century, in part because it has forged relationships with a diverse set of politically or ideologically like-mindedsupporters.These include senioral-Qaedamembers andforeign fighter volunteersfrom around the world, factions of the Pakistani Taliban, and wealthyprivatedonorsfrom the Arab States of the Persian Gulf.
Counterterrorism specialists Vahid Brown and Don Rasslerdemonstratethat “the Haqqani network has been more important to the development and sustainment of al‐Qa’ida and the global jihad than any other single actor or group.”
Today, the Haqqani network now includes nearly every Deobandi jihadi faction operating in the settled areas of Pakistan–factions that would cease to exist if not for Sirajuddin Haqqani’s provision of protection and patronage, U.S. officials say. Washington should now consider fresh data about the Haqqani network’s expanding influence in lands far beyond South Asia. General John R. Allen, the former commander of the United States-led coalition in Afghanistan, and the U.S. special envoy spearheading the fight in Iraq and Syria against the self-proclaimed Islamic State, observed that the United States has been concerned about the Haqqani network’s expansion beyond South Asia: “Although many Jihadi groups are sending their rank and file to places like Syria, few of these groups have the close relations with al Qaeda, media savvy, military capability, and technical expertise for suicide attacks like the Haqqani network.”
The idea that terrorists “evolve” is not novel, but today's scale and pace of adaptation are altogether new, and, some counterterrorism experts believe, are too often underappreciated. Modern terrorists adapt to new opportunities and threats by using the internet to build increasingly powerful global networks to command forces and radicalize new adherents, by weaponizing abundantly available advanced technology such as commercial drones, and by rapidly exploiting global political and societal changes.
U.S. policymakers need to consider not just the direction of the trend, but also its strength and speed. As Retired Lieutenant General Michael Nagata, former Strategy Director of the U.S. National Counterterrorism Center, notes:
The rise of the Islamic State (ISIS) was a revelation. In only five years, ISIS's global network is today larger than al Qaeda's despite decades of effort, and all terrorist groups are mimicking ISIS' innovations. In South Asia, where we face a nexus of al Qaeda, Taliban, Haqqani, and ISIS, our search for a negotiated settlement must confront the question of whether we can ‘out-innovate’ the adversary. It is unwise to assume that our traditional approaches will suffice… these adversaries adapt too quickly.
Washington has relied on Islamabad to resolve post-9/11 security threats, especially with regard to al-Qaeda and the Haqqani network. Pakistan has exploited this Western policy by supporting Islamist proxies under the “nuclear umbrella” to buttress the state’s own narrow strategic agenda. As the Trump administration and U.S. officials now regularly observe, Pakistan isharboringone of the highestconcentrationsof U.S.-designated Foreign Terrorist Organizations in the world. American officials quietly placeblamefor Islamabad offeringsanctuaryfor violent extremists in the region squarely on the ISI’s shoulders. The ISI continues, as it has for many years, to view the Haqqani network as particularly valuable to Pakistan’s strategic interests in anticipation of a post-NATO Afghanistan. The Haqqani network’s cohesion and reach have helped the ISI angle toward its long sought-after “strategic depth,” a euphemism for a compliant regime in Kabul to avoid Pakistan’s encirclement by India.
Publicly, the Haqqani network keeps its relationship with state and non-state sponsors of terror opaque. But empirical evidence is clear: the Haqqani network has shownno signit is willing to end its decades-long support of al-Qaeda or provision ofhavenfor terrorist groups with global ambitions. Over nearly four decades, the Haqqani network has created a fountainhead of jihad by facilitating al-Qaeda and adapting to the various changes that have swept the region.  Holding peace talks with the Taliban is futile if the United States is not also committed to disaggregating and defeating the ascendant Haqqani network and its partners.
Blog Post
Article
Backgrounder

Title: How Does This War End? Afghanistan Endgame, Part 2 - Defense One
An Afghan volunteer stands guard outside a mosque during a memorial service for the victims of the Dubai City wedding hall bombing in Kabul, Afghanistan, Tuesday, Aug. 20, 2019.AP Photo/Rafiq Maqbool

Stay Connected
Melissa Skorka,Council on Foreign Relations
Many senior scholars and analystsarguethat the “forever war” in Afghanistan long ago evolved, expanding from “a limited focus on counterterrorism to a broad nation-building effort without discussion about the implications for the duration and intensity of the military campaign.” In the latter years of Barack Obama’s presidency, that broader effort was scaled down dramatically, but it was extended in the face of a renewed understanding of Afghanistan’s potential to serve as a Petri dish for transnational terrorist organizations such as the self-proclaimed Islamic State and al-Qaeda. Consequently, as a recent Center for Strategic and International Studies report concludes: “After expending nearly $800 billion and suffering over 2,400 killed, the United States is still there, having achieved at best a stalemate.”
Recent empiricalevidencesuggests a larger significance to the expanding influence of modern terrorism. The ways Islamist militants are effectively adapting to Western nation-building efforts indicate that they have become ineluctably political actors. Rather than focus on constructing new, parallel governance institutions, like the “shadow” structures of the Quetta Shura Taliban in southern Afghanistan, the Haqqani network has adopted a far more opportunistic approach:infiltratingthe existing state architecture.
As the Haqqani network has found sanctuary in the largely lawless Afghanistan-Pakistan border region, and success with its decades-long practice of latently co-opting the Afghan state, the terrorist network stands ready to usurp the Kabul regime’s institutions of governance in highly-contested territory. The jury is still out on the potential outcomes of arapidU.S. withdrawal. The probability of acollapseof the central Afghan government could be low, but the consequences would be severe, both sub-nationally and internationally. If the allied Taliban-Haqqani network factions take over in Kabul, U.S. decision-makers would need to consider the risk of destabilization or even civil war spilling across international borders, posing a serious challenge to Islamabad’s security. (The United States has longviewedPakistan as its foremost strategic priority in the region and a state too nuclear to fail.) In such a scenario, the challenges inherent in a potential U.S.-supported effort toretakeKabul and other population centers would prove complex, as the Obama administrationlearnedin 2014 in Syria and Iraq. But, in Afghanistan, the danger of an Islamist militant resurgence would require the United States to combat newlyemboldenedterror proxies directly sponsored by Pakistan, an ostensible U.S. ally, and protected under its “nuclear umbrella”.
Accelerating the withdrawal of foreign forces would likely facilitate the Haqqani network’s most resonantraison d’être, as a senior Afghan Taliban leader with close ties to Mullah Omar, interviewed for this blog recently suggested:
Pakistan is protecting Sirajuddin Haqqani in the hope of continuing jihad by proxy. As U.S. forces leave Afghanistan, Haqqani will acquire two countries, Pakistan and Afghanistan. Success in Afghanistan will mean our Muslim brothers in the region, and around the world, will have managed to claim back our own rights in our own Islamic country. Sirajuddin understands that.
If American and NATO forces were extricated from the region and then were returned, they would find themselves fighting in territory dominated by the al-Qaeda-affiliated Haqqani alliances, which are even nowinfluencingthe Afghan political order from within Pakistan,infiltratingsoutheastern Afghanistan,reachingup to thenorthernprovinces, and even stretching to its western border withIran. Here policymakers are implored to ask: should the U.S. withdraw so precipitously, and then have to return to address the chaos that results?
In the post-2001 Afghan war, for as long as the West has perceived the Haqqani network as a purely military actor or criminal syndicate, it has often overlooked its political adaptation tactics, and in turn come to an incomplete understanding of its trajectory. It is difficult to verify the overarching goals of the Haqqani network’s next-generation terror model. But if Sirajuddin Haqqani indeed uses violence tofacilitaterelationships with state and non-state actors, to co-opt allies, and to neutralize rivals, then his true strategic ends will be not only to survive the variety of economic, environmental, and security challenges the network faces, but also to engage in selective violent acts in order to further garner power.
Washington should account for the Haqqani network’s more recent power consolidation, coupled with its symbiotic relationship with al-Qaeda, to ensure Afghan soil never again becomes a safe haven for terrorists. This is ostensibly a condition for complete U.S. withdrawal, asstatedby Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in June 2019.
However, the long-standing support for the Haqqani network by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) has further complicated U.S counterterrorism policy, particularly when the U.S. should further adapt its approaches in the Afghanistan-Pakistan region to address the true nature of the threat: a war in which Haqqani and al Qaeda affiliates, and the ISI, allcompetefor power, and sometimescollude.
This collusion takes many forms. For example, as senior U.S. intelligence officials have observed, the ISI gives advance warning to the Haqqani network prior to launching select military operations in order toprotectits terror proxy. This was perhaps best exemplified during the 2014 Zarb-e Azb counterterrorismoperation, which wasincompletelyexecuted as the Pakistani Army did not fight all militant organizationsequally. In this case, although Islamabad partnered with the United States in select counterterrorism efforts against anti-Pakistan groups (including some elements of al-Qaeda and the Pakistani Taliban), itcontinuedto serve aspatronto anti-Indian and anti-Afghan terrorists. Indeed, the ISI has stillnot movedagainst the Haqqani network’s most influential actors, as an Afghan tribal elder in Haqqani’s ancestral homeland observed:
When Pakistan faces pressure from the West and needs ‘political breathing space,’ the ISI temporarily arrests them or merely provides the U.S. with actionable intelligence for targeting select commanders, but Pakistan will never give the West drone coordinates for Haqqani’s most important leaders.
The United States, in concert with the legitimate Afghan government, should continue to pursue talks with the Afghan Taliban. But let us not neglect reality: the crescent of al-Qaeda and the Haqqani network’s history is long, and it bends toward terror. Sirajuddin could be ready for peace, but he is also ready to win the war, and he marches in lockstep with his al-Qaeda base.
This piece,first publishedby the Council on Foreign Relations, is used with permission.
NEXT STORY:Ep. 53: Civilian casualty reporting and the war on ISIS with Alexa O’Brien and Chris Woods
Help us tailor content specifically for you:

Title: Blogs | Council on Foreign Relations
Climate Change
Global Climate Agreements: Successes and Failures
Backgrounderby Lindsay MaizlandDecember 5, 2023Renewing America
Myanmar
Myanmar’s Troubled History
Backgrounderby Lindsay MaizlandJanuary 31, 2022
Health
How Tobacco Laws Could Help Close the Racial Gap on Cancer
Interactiveby Olivia  Angelino,Thomas J. Bollyky, Elle Ruggiero and Isabella TurilliFebruary 1, 2023Global Health Program
Iran
Israel and the Middle East at a Crossroads: How Tehran’s Terror Campaign Threatens the U.S. and our Allies
TestimonybyElliott AbramsSeptember 19, 2024
Oil and Petroleum Products
Academic Webinar: The Geopolitics of Oil
Webinarwith Carolyn Kissane andIrina A. FaskianosApril 12, 2023
Economics
C. Peter McColough Series on International Economics With Lael Brainard
Virtual Eventwith Lael Brainard andRoger W. Ferguson Jr.March 2, 2021C. Peter McColough Series on International Economics
Michelle Gavin, Ebenezer Obadare, and other experts track political and security developments across sub-Saharan Africa.
Election 2024 and the Future of U.S.-Africa Policy
September 23, 2024
CFR fellows and other experts assess the latest issues emerging in Asia today.
The Quad Leaders in Delaware
September 23, 2024
Brad Setser tracks cross-border flows, with a bit of macroeconomics thrown in.
Chinese State Investors Do Not Seem to Profit From Higher U.S. Interest Rates
September 02, 2024
A graphical take on geoeconomics.
Aging Will Hit China’s Economy Far Harder Than Is Recognized
August 28, 2024
Shannon O'Neil, Will Freeman, and guest authors analyze the economic, political, and social issues shaping Latin America and the Caribbean.
“Total Peace” is Dead. For Petro, Partial Peace is the Best Remaining Option
September 24, 2024
CFR experts investigate the impact of information and communication technologies on security, privacy, and international affairs.
Cyber Week in Review: September 20, 2024
September 20, 2024
Elliott Abrams discusses U.S. foreign policy, focusing on the Middle East and democracy and human rights.
The $7 Million Question About Ibrahim Aqil
September 23, 2024
James M. Lindsay analyzes the politics shaping U.S. foreign policy and the sustainability of American power.
Election 2024: Donald Trump Has Vowed to Raise Tariffs. Can He?
September 20, 2024
Women Around the World examines the relationship between the advancement of women and U.S. foreign policy interests, including prosperity and stability.
Women This Week: Women’s Deaths Cited as ‘Preventable’ in Georgia
September 20, 2024

Title: Blogs | Council on Foreign Relations
Climate Change
Global Climate Agreements: Successes and Failures
Backgrounderby Lindsay MaizlandDecember 5, 2023Renewing America
Myanmar
Myanmar’s Troubled History
Backgrounderby Lindsay MaizlandJanuary 31, 2022
Health
How Tobacco Laws Could Help Close the Racial Gap on Cancer
Interactiveby Olivia  Angelino,Thomas J. Bollyky, Elle Ruggiero and Isabella TurilliFebruary 1, 2023Global Health Program
Iran
Israel and the Middle East at a Crossroads: How Tehran’s Terror Campaign Threatens the U.S. and our Allies
TestimonybyElliott AbramsSeptember 19, 2024
Oil and Petroleum Products
Academic Webinar: The Geopolitics of Oil
Webinarwith Carolyn Kissane andIrina A. FaskianosApril 12, 2023
Economics
C. Peter McColough Series on International Economics With Lael Brainard
Virtual Eventwith Lael Brainard andRoger W. Ferguson Jr.March 2, 2021C. Peter McColough Series on International Economics
Michelle Gavin, Ebenezer Obadare, and other experts track political and security developments across sub-Saharan Africa.
Election 2024 and the Future of U.S.-Africa Policy
September 23, 2024
CFR fellows and other experts assess the latest issues emerging in Asia today.
The Quad Leaders in Delaware
September 23, 2024
Brad Setser tracks cross-border flows, with a bit of macroeconomics thrown in.
Chinese State Investors Do Not Seem to Profit From Higher U.S. Interest Rates
September 02, 2024
A graphical take on geoeconomics.
Aging Will Hit China’s Economy Far Harder Than Is Recognized
August 28, 2024
Shannon O'Neil, Will Freeman, and guest authors analyze the economic, political, and social issues shaping Latin America and the Caribbean.
“Total Peace” is Dead. For Petro, Partial Peace is the Best Remaining Option
September 24, 2024
CFR experts investigate the impact of information and communication technologies on security, privacy, and international affairs.
Cyber Week in Review: September 20, 2024
September 20, 2024
Elliott Abrams discusses U.S. foreign policy, focusing on the Middle East and democracy and human rights.
The $7 Million Question About Ibrahim Aqil
September 23, 2024
James M. Lindsay analyzes the politics shaping U.S. foreign policy and the sustainability of American power.
Election 2024: Donald Trump Has Vowed to Raise Tariffs. Can He?
September 20, 2024
Women Around the World examines the relationship between the advancement of women and U.S. foreign policy interests, including prosperity and stability.
Women This Week: Women’s Deaths Cited as ‘Preventable’ in Georgia
September 20, 2024

Title: US cuts Pakistan’s aid by $440 million  
Follow Us
The US has cut its aid to cash-strapped Pakistan by $440 million, bringing its commitments to just $4.1 billion.
The decision to cut Pakistan's economic assistance was officially conveyed to Islamabad about three weeks before the visit of Prime Minister Imran Khan to the US, the Express Tribune reported.
The aid was disbursed under Pakistan Enhanced Partnership Agreement (PEPA) 2010. The agreement was signed in 2010 to make operational the Kerry Lugar Berman (KLB) Act that was passed by the US Congress in October 2009 to disburse $7.5 billion to Pakistan over a period of 5 years.
However, soon after PEPA agreement was made effective the relations between Pakistan and the US started deteriorating and reached nearly its lowest ebbs in decades. This also affected the actual commitments and disbursements under the KLB Act.
The report said the commitments under the KLB earlier stood at nearly $4.5 billion. Now, after the cut the aid will come down to $4.1 billion.
The KLB was aimed at making investments in Pakistan's economic infrastructure, particularly in energy and agriculture, to help the country recover from its energy and water crises, improve the daily lives of the Pakistani people and increase opportunities for economic growth.
In September 2018, the US military cancelled $300 million in aid to Pakistan over its failure to take action against militant groups.
Washington has long complained that Pakistan provides a safe haven to militant groups, including the Afghan Taliban, Haqqani Network and Al Qaeda, allowing them to carry out cross-border attacks in Afghanistan.
During his meeting with Imran Khan in July, US President Donald Trump had hinted that he was unlikely to lift the freeze of security assistance to Islamabad till the time he was satisfied with Islamabad's actions against terrorist network.
"We were paying $1.3 billion to Pakistan in aid for many years. The problem was Pakistan was not doing anything for us," Trump had told Khan.
Follow us on:Facebook,Twitter,Google News,Instagram
Join our official telegram channel (@nationalherald) and stay updated with the latest headlines