Title: US watchdog: Peace with Taliban won't resolve Afghan... | Daily Mail Online
ByAssociated Press
Published:10:05 EDT, 28 March 2019|Updated:10:10 EDT, 28 March 2019


KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) - Afghanistan will remain dependent on international donors and foreign help even after a peace deal with the Taliban is reached, a U.S. watchdog said Thursday.
The warning by Washington's Special Inspector General for Afghan Reconstruction, or SIGAR, which monitors billions of dollars in U.S. aid to the country, came in a new report identifying main high-risk areas for Afghanistan.
John F. Sopko, head of SIGAR, urged policymakers to plan for the "day after," saying a peace agreement won't automatically resolve Afghanistan's many crises.
"Should peace come, if that peace is to be sustainable, it will come at an additional price that only external donors can afford," Sopko said, according to a statement emailed to The Associated Press ahead of the report's release.
The report said main points of concern include widespread insecurity, underdeveloped civil policing capability, endemic corruption, sluggish economy, the Taliban-run narcotics trade and threats to women's rights.
Over the past months, the Trump administration has stepped up efforts to resolve Afghanistan's 17-year war - America's longest conflict - and U.S. special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad has held several rounds of peace talks with the Taliban, with both sides citing progress in the negotiations.
In this Wednesday, Mar. 27, 2019 photo, construction projects can be seen in Kabul, Afghanistan. The Special Inspector General for Afghan Reconstruction monitors billions of dollars in U.S. aid to the country. It issued a new report on Thursday identifying main high-risk areas for Afghanistan. They said concerns include widespread insecurity, underdeveloped civil policing capability, endemic corruption, sluggish economy, the Taliban-run narcotics trade, threats to women's rights and the reintegration of as many as 60,000 heavily armed Taliban fighters. (AP Photo/Rahmat Gul)
But despite the talks, the Taliban stage near-daily attacks on Afghan forces, inflicting staggering casualties, and now hold sway over half of the country. Also, the insurgents refuse to talk directly with the government in Kabul, considering it a U.S. puppet.
If a peace deal is struck, SIGAR said another concern would be the reintegration of as many as 60,000 heavily armed Taliban fighters and their families back into Afghan society.
Donor countries are expected to finance approximately 51 percent of Afghanistan's 2019 government spending of $5 billion. Yet the Afghan government's capabilities are generally weak and it often lacks the capacity to manage and account for donor funds, the report said.
FILE - In this March 6, 2019 file photo, Afghan security personnel man a checkpoint at the airport after a suicide attack, in Jalalabad province, east of Kabul, Afghanistan. In a Thursday, March 28, 2019 report the Special Inspector General for Afghan Reconstruction, a U.S. watchdog, said that Afghanistan will remain dependent on international donors and foreign help even after a peace deal with the Taliban is reached. The report identified main high-risk areas including widespread insecurity. (AP Photo/Mohammad Anwar Danishyar)
FILE - In this Saturday, Mar. 23, 2019 file photo, a wounded man is tended to following multiple explosions in Lashkar Gah, Afghanistan. In a Thursday, March 28, 2019 report the Special Inspector General for Afghan Reconstruction, a U.S. watchdog, said that Afghanistan will remain dependent on international donors and foreign help even after a peace deal with the Taliban is reached. The report identified main high-risk areas including widespread insecurity. (AP Photo/Abdul Khaliq, File)
FILE - In this Jan. 28, 2019 file photo, an Afghan street vendor waits for customers on the outskirts of Kabul, Afghanistan. In a Thursday, March 28, 2019 report the Special Inspector General for Afghan Reconstruction, a U.S. watchdog, said that Afghanistan will remain dependent on international donors and foreign help even after a peace deal with the Taliban is reached. The report identified main high-risk areas including the sluggish economy. (AP Photo/Rahmat Gul, File)
FIILE - In this March 8, 2019 file photo, an independent Afghan artists draws graffiti on a barrier wall of the Ministry of Women's Affairs to mark International Women's Day, in Kabul, Afghanistan. In a Thursday, March 28, 2019 report the Special Inspector General for Afghan Reconstruction, a U.S. watchdog, said that Afghanistan will remain dependent on international donors and foreign help even after a peace deal with the Taliban is reached. The report identified main high-risk areas including threats to women's rights. (AP Photo/Rahmat Gul, File)
FILE - In this May 27, 2016 file photo, Taliban fighters react to a speech by their senior leader in the Shindand district of Herat province, Afghanistan. In a Thursday, March 28, 2019 report the Special Inspector General for Afghan Reconstruction, a U.S. watchdog, said that Afghanistan will remain dependent on international donors and foreign help even after a peace deal with the Taliban is reached. The report identified main high-risk areas including the reintegration of as many as 60,000 heavily armed Taliban fighters and their families back into Afghan society. (AP Photos/Allauddin Khan, File)
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group

Title:  Afghanistan- US official stresses need for vanquishing Taliban
ForgotUsernameorPassword

Date
(MENAFN- Afghanistan Times) AT Monitoring DeskKABUL: Congressman Rep. Ro Khanna has urged Republicans and
Democrats to support President Donald Trump's efforts to withdraw US trosops
from Afghanistan, while stressed the need for vanquishing theTalibangroup.In an interview on Monday, he said: 'We need to put partisan
politics aside and support the president's goal of withdrawing troops.'Speaking exclusively to Breitbart News, he recalled: 'I was
for striking Afghanistan when we were hit in 9/11. I have no problem using
force to go after the terrorists who committed evil acts and attacked our
homeland.'While defending the invasion of Afghanistan in 2001, he saw
no rationale for seeking a regime change in Afghanistan and. However, he
stressed the need for vanquishing the Taliban.The congressman claimed troop surges by George Bush, Barack
Obama and Donald Trump had been ineffective. The Taliban had gained control of
more territory, he said.'We ought to withdraw and make it very clear to the Taliban
that if there is any harbouring of Al Qaeda … we reserve the right to go strike
them.'The stress for defeating the Taliban came after US Special
Envoy for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad making all out efforts to
reach an agreement with the Taliban group in a bid to end the prolong war in
the country.Recently, Khalilzad concluded his fifth round of peace talks
with Taliban in Qatar, and embarked on its peace mission where he returned
Afghanistan from Belgium. He held talks with high-ranking Afghan officials,
including Afghan politicians and influential figures from all walk of the
society.MENAFN0304201901690000ID1098338212
KABUL: Congressman Rep. Ro Khanna has urged Republicans and
Democrats to support President Donald Trump's efforts to withdraw US trosops
from Afghanistan, while stressed the need for vanquishing theTalibangroup.In an interview on Monday, he said: 'We need to put partisan
politics aside and support the president's goal of withdrawing troops.'Speaking exclusively to Breitbart News, he recalled: 'I was
for striking Afghanistan when we were hit in 9/11. I have no problem using
force to go after the terrorists who committed evil acts and attacked our
homeland.'While defending the invasion of Afghanistan in 2001, he saw
no rationale for seeking a regime change in Afghanistan and. However, he
stressed the need for vanquishing the Taliban.The congressman claimed troop surges by George Bush, Barack
Obama and Donald Trump had been ineffective. The Taliban had gained control of
more territory, he said.'We ought to withdraw and make it very clear to the Taliban
that if there is any harbouring of Al Qaeda … we reserve the right to go strike
them.'The stress for defeating the Taliban came after US Special
Envoy for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad making all out efforts to
reach an agreement with the Taliban group in a bid to end the prolong war in
the country.Recently, Khalilzad concluded his fifth round of peace talks
with Taliban in Qatar, and embarked on its peace mission where he returned
Afghanistan from Belgium. He held talks with high-ranking Afghan officials,
including Afghan politicians and influential figures from all walk of the
society.MENAFN0304201901690000ID1098338212
KABUL: Congressman Rep. Ro Khanna has urged Republicans and
Democrats to support President Donald Trump's efforts to withdraw US trosops
from Afghanistan, while stressed the need for vanquishing theTalibangroup.
In an interview on Monday, he said: 'We need to put partisan
politics aside and support the president's goal of withdrawing troops.'
Speaking exclusively to Breitbart News, he recalled: 'I was
for striking Afghanistan when we were hit in 9/11. I have no problem using
force to go after the terrorists who committed evil acts and attacked our
homeland.'
While defending the invasion of Afghanistan in 2001, he saw
no rationale for seeking a regime change in Afghanistan and. However, he
stressed the need for vanquishing the Taliban.
The congressman claimed troop surges by George Bush, Barack
Obama and Donald Trump had been ineffective. The Taliban had gained control of
more territory, he said.
'We ought to withdraw and make it very clear to the Taliban
that if there is any harbouring of Al Qaeda … we reserve the right to go strike
them.'
The stress for defeating the Taliban came after US Special
Envoy for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad making all out efforts to
reach an agreement with the Taliban group in a bid to end the prolong war in
the country.
Recently, Khalilzad concluded his fifth round of peace talks
with Taliban in Qatar, and embarked on its peace mission where he returned
Afghanistan from Belgium. He held talks with high-ranking Afghan officials,
including Afghan politicians and influential figures from all walk of the
society.
MENAFN0304201901690000ID1098338212
MENAFN0304201901690000ID1098338212
Legal Disclaimer:MENAFNprovides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.

Tags
Comments
Category
Date
Daily(English)Daily(Arabic)All()

World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data.
Contact UsClick here
Copyright © 2000MENAFN.All rights reserved.
Design & Devleopment byMENAFN

Title: Why Won’t The Taliban Talk To The Afghan Government?
Print
Afghanistan’s hard-line Taliban Islamist movement has been talking to the United States since July. But itsrefusalto directly negotiate with the Afghan government has emerged as the main hurdle to a comprehensive peace settlement to end more than four decades of war in Afghanistan.
It is strange that the Taliban are mainly fighting a war with Afghan government forces but are negotiating only with the United States. It is telling that, since September 2014,45,000Afghan police officers and soldiers have been killed in fighting with the Taliban and other insurgent groups. The United States and the NATO-led coalition it leads had less than 100 fatalities in the same period.
In recent months, the Taliban feel strengthened by indications that Washington is eager to withdraw its forces from Afghanistan. They have read signs of a U.S. military drawdown as evidence of their victory after 18 years of fighting. The movement sees the United States as exhausted by the war in Afghanistan and thus want to push for maximum advantage.
The Taliban have many arguments for not negotiating with the Afghan government. The movement, which formally calls itself the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, still views itself as the legitimate government of Afghanistan. Its leaders have repeatedly argued that their government was overthrown by the U.S.-led military intervention in late 2001. The Taliban still see Afghanistan as occupied by foreign forces.
Thus they consider the government in Kabul a puppet regime with no real power, and in their view negotiations with the Afghan government would grant itlegitimacy. The Taliban are also worried that negotiations with the Afghan government will weaken their organization because foot soldiers will inevitably question the motives of their leaders for leading them into an aimless war for 18 years.
But such arguments will not change the facts on the ground, and the Taliban cannot ignore the Afghan government. They have two choices: They can either become part of the current Afghan political system or push for a military strategy aimed at eventually overrunning Kabul after the withdrawal of U.S. forces.
If they adopt the first choice, they are unlikely to win the Afghan presidential elections scheduled for September because they have limited popular appeal and only represent a small fraction of Afghanistan’s estimated 35 million people. Most Afghans oppose the Taliban because of their atrocities and conservative ideology. A nationwide poll in 2015 found that92 percentof Afghans supported the Kabul government and only 4 percent favored the Taliban.
While the Taliban control or contest nearlyhalfof Afghanistan, the vast majority of the area under insurgent control are remote rural regions where just 10 percent of the Afghanpopulationlives. The Taliban do not control even one of the 34 provincial capitals.
Most significantly, the Taliban are unlikely to participate in elections because they are against participatory democracy. The argument that representative democracy is against Islamic Shari’a law is echoed throughout Taliban literature. Now that the Taliban have enormous military power, they are unlikely to embrace the path of democracy where they will probably lose the power accumulated through violence.
Such complications appear to have prompted the Taliban to only talk to Washington so they can only discuss the withdrawal of U.S. forces in return for some guarantees that Afghanistan will not revert to a terrorist haven. It is possible the Taliban might demand complete control over the Afghan government or over several strategic eastern and southern provinces.
Kabul, on the other hand, appears willing to make keyconcessions. The Afghan government is ready to review the constitution, recognize the Taliban as a legitimate political party, and accept insurgent demands within constitutional limitations.
It is obvious that the Taliban are pushing for a route that will guarantee a share or monopoly over power without facing elections where they are unlikely to attract popular support.
It is important to discuss the Taliban’sassurancesthat they will not attempt to recapture Kabul by force. For many Afghans, however, these ring hollow because the Islamist mujahedin parties made similar noises after the withdrawal of Soviet forces in 1989. They ultimately pushed for a military victory, which thrust Afghanistan deep into a brutal civil war.
Afghanistan’s status as an ethnically mixed country with no single group enjoying an absolute numeric majority adds to the challenges for the Taliban. Durable peace in the country will require considering the interests and addressing concerns of all ethnic groups in Afghanistan. The Taliban cannot do this on their own because they have historically relied on Pashtun clerics. While they have made inroads into some Sunni Tajik and Uzbek communities, they are far from claiming that they can represent these communities. The Taliban have no support among the predominantly Shi’ite Hazara community. Given their track record of meting out harsh punishments, the Taliban are unlikely to appeal to Afghan women, whose lot has changed significantly during the past 18 years.
Thus, any negotiations to determine the future of Afghanistan cannot happen in the absence of the country’s democratically elected and globally recognized government, which enjoys the support of all ethnicities. Ignoring this vital reality will only create obstacles and eventually lead to another conflict.
It is a good omen that Afghan President Ashraf Ghani recentlyconsultedprominent Afghan political leaders “to reach a unified stance on the peace process.”
Given that an intra-Afghan settlement could ultimately guarantee sustainable peace in Afghanistan, both the Afghan government and the Taliban should avail of this opportunity.
The Taliban must talk with the government while Kabul must give space to the Taliban in the current political system on a scale replicating the national unity government in 2014. This is the only path to end the four-decades-long war.
Hizbullah Khan is a Pakistan based journalist and political analyst. These views are the author's alone and do not represent those of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty.



Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty © 2024 RFE/RL, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Title: Taliban, ISIS-aligned fighters engage in deadly Afghanistan clashes - The Jerusalem Post 
Stay updated with the latest news!
Subscribe to The Jerusalem Post Newsletter

Title: Do the Afghan Taliban and Pakistan get on as well as some think? - Prism - DAWN.COM
As negotiations between the Taliban and the United States proceed, given Pakistan’s leverage with the Taliban, some circles in Afghanistan have raised concerns that the Taliban, if and when they become part of government, would work to further Pakistan’s interest in Kabul.
One way to know whether a future Taliban presence in the Afghan government would directly benefit Islamabad is to look at the nature of the relationship between Pakistan and the Taliban from when the Taliban emerged in Kandahar in 1994 to when they were toppled by the US in 2001.
I believe the Taliban were taking advantage of Pakistan rather than the other way around.
Since Pakistan was the Taliban’s only neighbour and one of the three countries that recognised it, the Taliban heavily depended on Pakistan for political, moral and military support in the fight against the Northern Alliance.
Pakistan evenignored UN sanctionsforbidding assistance to the Taliban by providing technical expertise and oil to help the Taliban run their war machine.
The Taliban, however, didn’t do much to address Pakistan’s (strategic) concerns.
For instance, the Taliban, like previous Afghan governments, also refused to recognise the Durand Line as an international border between Afghanistan and Pakistan.
A brief, albeit bitter, exchange about the Durand Line between the Taliban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar and the retired Pakistani general-turned-politician Naseerullah Babar is worth sharing.
Over a meal,Babar asked Omarif the latter recognised the Durand Line, “all problems would be resolved.” Omar took serious offence at his guest’s unsolicited advice and, going against the grain of the Pashtun code of honour, shouted at Babar to stop eating and leave the place at once — calling Babar, who was an ethnic Pashtun, a “traitor.”
Furthermore, the Taliban with their indefensible human rights records and onslaught on cultural heritage, caused Pakistan much embarrassment. The Taliban’s decision, in 2001, to destroy the Buddha statues in Bamiyan perfectly captured the mood.
Perspective:How Pakistan can help with the Afghan peace process
President Musharraf sent the Pakistani interior minister, Moinuddin Haider, to urge the Talibannot to destroythe Buddha statues. President Musharraf’s message through his interior minister, however, fell on deaf ears and the Taliban proceeded with destroying the statues, prompting widespread global condemnation.
Additionally, the Taliban failed to find a solution to the Afghan refugee problem facing Pakistan. Although under the Taliban some refugees returned home from Pakistan, the influx of refugees from Afghanistan into Pakistan continued unabated — triggered by the Taliban-Northern Alliance conflict, human rights abuses and economic hardship, according to theUNHCR Country Reportfrom 2000.
Moreover, even under the Taliban, who at one point controlled all of Afghanistan except Panjshir and Badakhshan, Pakistan’s desire to turn Afghanistan into its strategic depth against India didn’t materialise.
On the contrary, in my opinion, it was the Taliban that were using Pakistan as a strategic depth until September 11, 2001. Without Pakistan’s all-weather support, the Taliban’s war machine would not have performed so well against its adversaries.
More importantly, the Taliban’s success in the 1990s played a role in inspiring extremists in Pakistan. As Pakistani madrassas supplied a steady flow of foot soldiers to the Taliban frontlines, the return of these madrassa students to Pakistan, or even their dying on the battlefield, inspired the possibility of establishing a Taliban-style government in Pakistan, or parts of it.
The case ofMaulana Sufi Muhammadof Tehreek-e-Nifaz-Shariat-e-Muhammadi stands out. While he made headlines in 2009 for having succeeded in his efforts to impose Sharia in Swat, he and his followers had long fought alongside the Taliban in Afghanistan.
Sufi Mohammad’s student and son-in-law Mullah Fazlullah would later become the leader of Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan in 2013 and headed the group until his death in 2018.
No sooner did the mujahideen come to power in Afghanistan in 1992 than they turned against each other.
Mujahideen commanders-turned-warlords busied themselves with wholesale killing, robbery and rape. Afghanistan was divided into little fiefdoms and a bloodbath ensued.
Neighbouring countries also vied for influence in Afghanistan. Pakistan mostly supported Gulbuddin Hekmatyar’s Hizb-e-Islami. Iran sided with Abdul Ali Mazari’s Hizb-e-Wahdat. India and Russia threw their weight behind Burhanuddin Rabbani’s Jamiat-e-Islami. Estimates of civilians killed between 1992 and 1996range anywherefrom tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands.
It was in reaction to this chaos that a band of madrassa students, or the Taliban — with ‘taliban’ being the Farsi plural for ‘talib’, literally meaning ‘student’ in Arabic — emerged in Kandahar to restore order.
Op-ed:Ironies of the Afghan war
In contrast to many unfounded claims, the Taliban movement was indigenous to Kandahar. It was after the Taliban’s initial successes against warlords in southern Afghanistan that brought them to Pakistan’s attention.
From Pakistan’s perspective, not only would the Taliban restore order on Pakistan’s border, which in turn would pave the way for trade with Central Asia, but they would also represent a better alternative than President Rabbani’s government in Kabul, which was viewed with suspicion in Islamabad as being anti-Pakistan and pro-India.
In other words, although the Taliban were not an ideal partner Islamabad would have wanted, they were the lesser of two evils available to Pakistan.
Despite being on Pakistan’s payroll, not a single one of the seven mujahideen organisations, after the collapse of the Najibullah government in 1992, set up a pro-Pakistan government in Kabul.
In fact, members of Burhanuddin Rabbani’s Jamiat-e-Islami, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi’s Jabh-e-Nijat-e-Mili Afghanistan and the leader of Ittehad-e-Islami, Abdur Rab Rasool Sayyaf, were vocal critics of Pakistan for years.
Unfavourable opinion of Pakistan is not limited to former mujahideen. The Taliban ambassador to Pakistan, Mullah Abdul Salam Zaeef, whom the Musharraf government handed over to the US in violation of diplomatic protocol, is a prominent critic of Pakistan.
His memoir,My Life with the Taliban, in addition to highlighting Zaeef’s role within the Taliban movement, is also a catalogue of grievances against Pakistan.
US-Taliban talks:As hopes rise of a deal, what comes next?
One could only imagine Taliban founding member Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar’s attitude towards Pakistan, who spent eight years in Pakistani custody andwas releasedlate last year.
In short, successful conclusion of negotiations between the Taliban and the US, or even the Taliban’s return to power, may or may not lead to sustainable peace in Afghanistan.
However, to suggest that the Taliban would work for and in Pakistan’s interest is simply not in line with either history or reality.
If the Taliban didn’t address any of Pakistan’s key concerns in the 1990s when they were in total isolation, why would they when they come to power next?
Are you examining Pakistan’s foreign policy involvements? Share your insights with us at prism@dawn.com
The author is a former adviser to the Parwan governor in Afghanistan. He can be reached at rahiarwin@gmail.com.

Title: Do the Afghan Taliban and Pakistan get on as well as some think? - Prism - DAWN.COM
As negotiations between the Taliban and the United States proceed, given Pakistan’s leverage with the Taliban, some circles in Afghanistan have raised concerns that the Taliban, if and when they become part of government, would work to further Pakistan’s interest in Kabul.
One way to know whether a future Taliban presence in the Afghan government would directly benefit Islamabad is to look at the nature of the relationship between Pakistan and the Taliban from when the Taliban emerged in Kandahar in 1994 to when they were toppled by the US in 2001.
I believe the Taliban were taking advantage of Pakistan rather than the other way around.
Since Pakistan was the Taliban’s only neighbour and one of the three countries that recognised it, the Taliban heavily depended on Pakistan for political, moral and military support in the fight against the Northern Alliance.
Pakistan evenignored UN sanctionsforbidding assistance to the Taliban by providing technical expertise and oil to help the Taliban run their war machine.
The Taliban, however, didn’t do much to address Pakistan’s (strategic) concerns.
For instance, the Taliban, like previous Afghan governments, also refused to recognise the Durand Line as an international border between Afghanistan and Pakistan.
A brief, albeit bitter, exchange about the Durand Line between the Taliban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar and the retired Pakistani general-turned-politician Naseerullah Babar is worth sharing.
Over a meal,Babar asked Omarif the latter recognised the Durand Line, “all problems would be resolved.” Omar took serious offence at his guest’s unsolicited advice and, going against the grain of the Pashtun code of honour, shouted at Babar to stop eating and leave the place at once — calling Babar, who was an ethnic Pashtun, a “traitor.”
Furthermore, the Taliban with their indefensible human rights records and onslaught on cultural heritage, caused Pakistan much embarrassment. The Taliban’s decision, in 2001, to destroy the Buddha statues in Bamiyan perfectly captured the mood.
Perspective:How Pakistan can help with the Afghan peace process
President Musharraf sent the Pakistani interior minister, Moinuddin Haider, to urge the Talibannot to destroythe Buddha statues. President Musharraf’s message through his interior minister, however, fell on deaf ears and the Taliban proceeded with destroying the statues, prompting widespread global condemnation.
Additionally, the Taliban failed to find a solution to the Afghan refugee problem facing Pakistan. Although under the Taliban some refugees returned home from Pakistan, the influx of refugees from Afghanistan into Pakistan continued unabated — triggered by the Taliban-Northern Alliance conflict, human rights abuses and economic hardship, according to theUNHCR Country Reportfrom 2000.
Moreover, even under the Taliban, who at one point controlled all of Afghanistan except Panjshir and Badakhshan, Pakistan’s desire to turn Afghanistan into its strategic depth against India didn’t materialise.
On the contrary, in my opinion, it was the Taliban that were using Pakistan as a strategic depth until September 11, 2001. Without Pakistan’s all-weather support, the Taliban’s war machine would not have performed so well against its adversaries.
More importantly, the Taliban’s success in the 1990s played a role in inspiring extremists in Pakistan. As Pakistani madrassas supplied a steady flow of foot soldiers to the Taliban frontlines, the return of these madrassa students to Pakistan, or even their dying on the battlefield, inspired the possibility of establishing a Taliban-style government in Pakistan, or parts of it.
The case ofMaulana Sufi Muhammadof Tehreek-e-Nifaz-Shariat-e-Muhammadi stands out. While he made headlines in 2009 for having succeeded in his efforts to impose Sharia in Swat, he and his followers had long fought alongside the Taliban in Afghanistan.
Sufi Mohammad’s student and son-in-law Mullah Fazlullah would later become the leader of Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan in 2013 and headed the group until his death in 2018.
No sooner did the mujahideen come to power in Afghanistan in 1992 than they turned against each other.
Mujahideen commanders-turned-warlords busied themselves with wholesale killing, robbery and rape. Afghanistan was divided into little fiefdoms and a bloodbath ensued.
Neighbouring countries also vied for influence in Afghanistan. Pakistan mostly supported Gulbuddin Hekmatyar’s Hizb-e-Islami. Iran sided with Abdul Ali Mazari’s Hizb-e-Wahdat. India and Russia threw their weight behind Burhanuddin Rabbani’s Jamiat-e-Islami. Estimates of civilians killed between 1992 and 1996range anywherefrom tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands.
It was in reaction to this chaos that a band of madrassa students, or the Taliban — with ‘taliban’ being the Farsi plural for ‘talib’, literally meaning ‘student’ in Arabic — emerged in Kandahar to restore order.
Op-ed:Ironies of the Afghan war
In contrast to many unfounded claims, the Taliban movement was indigenous to Kandahar. It was after the Taliban’s initial successes against warlords in southern Afghanistan that brought them to Pakistan’s attention.
From Pakistan’s perspective, not only would the Taliban restore order on Pakistan’s border, which in turn would pave the way for trade with Central Asia, but they would also represent a better alternative than President Rabbani’s government in Kabul, which was viewed with suspicion in Islamabad as being anti-Pakistan and pro-India.
In other words, although the Taliban were not an ideal partner Islamabad would have wanted, they were the lesser of two evils available to Pakistan.
Despite being on Pakistan’s payroll, not a single one of the seven mujahideen organisations, after the collapse of the Najibullah government in 1992, set up a pro-Pakistan government in Kabul.
In fact, members of Burhanuddin Rabbani’s Jamiat-e-Islami, Sebghatullah Mujaddedi’s Jabh-e-Nijat-e-Mili Afghanistan and the leader of Ittehad-e-Islami, Abdur Rab Rasool Sayyaf, were vocal critics of Pakistan for years.
Unfavourable opinion of Pakistan is not limited to former mujahideen. The Taliban ambassador to Pakistan, Mullah Abdul Salam Zaeef, whom the Musharraf government handed over to the US in violation of diplomatic protocol, is a prominent critic of Pakistan.
His memoir,My Life with the Taliban, in addition to highlighting Zaeef’s role within the Taliban movement, is also a catalogue of grievances against Pakistan.
US-Taliban talks:As hopes rise of a deal, what comes next?
One could only imagine Taliban founding member Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar’s attitude towards Pakistan, who spent eight years in Pakistani custody andwas releasedlate last year.
In short, successful conclusion of negotiations between the Taliban and the US, or even the Taliban’s return to power, may or may not lead to sustainable peace in Afghanistan.
However, to suggest that the Taliban would work for and in Pakistan’s interest is simply not in line with either history or reality.
If the Taliban didn’t address any of Pakistan’s key concerns in the 1990s when they were in total isolation, why would they when they come to power next?
Are you examining Pakistan’s foreign policy involvements? Share your insights with us at prism@dawn.com
The author is a former adviser to the Parwan governor in Afghanistan. He can be reached at rahiarwin@gmail.com.

Title: Afghan President Slams Taliban's Announcement of Spring Offensive
Sputnik News
14:43 13.04.2019
MOSCOW (Sputnik) – The Afghan Presidential Palace has lambasted the announcement by the Taliban of a new spring offensive, calling it "illegitimate". The authorities urged the movement to engage in peace talks.
"The Afghan government is ready to defend every corner of the country but it once again calls on the Taliban leadership to stop the illegitimate and imposed war and nod to the unconditional invitation of the Afghan government and people for peace talks," the statement said as quoted by the Tolo News broadcaster.
US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad also condemned the Taliban announcement on Friday, calling it "reckless."
The aforementioned announcement by the Taliban said that it would undertake a spring offensive despite being part of the ongoing US-led peace talks for Afghanistan. The goal of the Taliban's Operation Fath – "victory" in Arabic – is to cleanse Afghanistan from invasion and corruption, the movement reportedly said.
Crisis in Afghanistan
Afghanistan has long been ravaged by war and political instability, but the two main opponents, the Afghan government and the Taliban, have been making efforts toward achieving peace by holding indirect talks.
The Taliban emerged in 1994 at the height of a civil war in Afghanistan. The group held power in most of the country between 1996 and 2001; during this period, it introduced Islamic Sharia law.
The Taliban was ousted from power by a US-led coalition in 2001 and has since then been waging a guerrilla war against the Kabul-based government, and NATO forces in Afghanistan and neighbouring Pakistan.
According to Russia's envoy to Afghanistan, the militants control at least 50 per cent of Afghanistan's territory and their ranks include from 3,500 to 10,000 Daesh fighters, who regularly carry out terror attacks across the country.

© Sputnik



Title: NATO, Afghan forces kill more civilians than Taliban – DW – 04/24/2019
Security forces in Afghanistan killed more civilians in the first part of 2019 than the Taliban and other terrorist groups. At the same time, casualty numbers fell compared with the previous year.
Afghan civilians were killed in greater numbers by NATO and pro-government security forces in the first three months of 2019 than by armed militants,according to UN figures.
It's the first time that fatalities caused by security forces in Afghanistan have exceeded those caused by the Taliban.
What you need to know:
Investigation needed
The United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA), which released its report on Wednesday, urged security forces to investigate the casualties.
"UNAMA urges both the Afghan national security forces and international military forces to conduct investigations into allegations of civilian casualties, to publish the results of their findings, and to provide compensation to victims as appropriate," the report stated.
On the subject of search operations, UNAMA said some of the internationally-supported Afghan forces "appear to act with impunity."
Changing trends
The US military increased the pace of its bombing operations in 2017 after President Donald Trump loosened restrictions to make it easier to bomb Taliban positions.
Read more:Afghanistan: Can peace prevail?
Although several nations contribute logistical or technical support, with an increasing number of sorties flown by Afghanistan's own fledgling airforce, US aircraft conduct the large majority of airstrikes.
The overall drop in casualties compared with the previous year was attributed to a decrease in suicide bomb attacks, which spiked in early 2018. In January last year,100 people were killed in a single incidentwhen an explosives-laden ambulance blew up in Kabul.
UNAMA said it did not know if the fall in the number of suicide attacks was attributable to a harsh winter or whether the Taliban were deliberately avoiding civilian deathsas they conduct peace talks with the United States.
Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.

Title: At Least 150 Killed in Battle for Control of Afghan District
By Ayaz Gul April 08, 2019
Authorities in Afghanistan say the latest military-led offensives, backed by coalition airpower, have killed nearly 100 Taliban insurgents and injured dozens more in a bid to reclaim full control of a volatile district in western Badghis province.
Hundreds of heavily armed insurgents assaulted Bala Murghab last Thursday for the second time in a month and overran key parts of the district, including the police headquarters and main prison, before killing at least 30 Afghan troops and capturing as many others.
A government counteroffensive has since regularly carried out air raids against Taliban positions in the district and U.S.-led coalition planes have assisted, the Defense Ministry in Kabul said Monday.
The fighting during the past two days has killed 12 Afghan troops and wounded at least 34 others, according to the Ministry.
"The clearing operation continues in Bala Murghab district," it added.
Fighting also has intensified in other parts of Afghanistan with the advent of spring, despite U.S.-led efforts to reach a peace deal with the Taliban.
Sunday, chief American peace negotiator, Zalmay Khalilzad, concluded a nearly weeklong visit to Kabul where he held extensive consultations with leaders inside and outside the Afghan government as well as civil society representatives.
The Afghan-born U.S. special reconciliation representative is expected to enter into another round of peace negotiations with the Taliban later this month in Qatar in his bid to start an intra-Afghan dialogue to bring an end to the 18-year-old war that continues to inflict record levels of casualties on combatants and civilians.
Separately, Islamic State took responsibility for Monday's bombing of a police convoy in Jalalabad, the capital of Nangarhar province. Afghan officials said the blast killed a police officer and a civilian while eight other people were injured.
This was the third bomb attack in the city in three days, all of them claimed by Islamic State's local affiliate, Khorasan Province (ISKP). The violence has killed at least five people and injured dozens more.
But an IS statement claimed it detonated four improvised explosive devices (IED) in Jalalabad in five days, killing 21 people. The group's claims are often inflated.
ISKP's loyalists are mostly active in parts of Nangarhar and in the adjoining Kunar province, both of them sharing a border with Pakistan. The terrorist outfit is under attack from U.S.-backed Afghan forces, while Taliban insurgents are also waging attacks against the militant group in Taliban-controlled areas.



Title: On the terror frontline with British troops helping Afghan soldiers to stop ISIS - World News - Mirror Online
EXCLUSIVE: Amid onslaughts from terrorist groups, our soldiers are the 'Guardian Angels' protecting officials as Afghanistan is rebuilt. Chris Hughes and photographer Andy Stenning report from Kabul
The bloodied streets of the Afghan capital Kabul are piano-wire tense after years of hotel and street blasts which have claimed many hundreds of civilian lives.
Concrete blast walls, barbed wire and armoured convoys are all over the city and, for safety, we travel the few miles between bases by Puma helicopter.
We are in Kabul to witness how more than 1,000 UK troops are carrying out their mission to lock down the capital and train local military and police so they can destroy the Taliban threat.
Our soldiers are the heavily armed “Guardian Angels” who protect the officials trying to rebuild Afghanistan.
The war between the Afghan government and Taliban must end to stop IS establishing itself here before launching attacks abroad.
As fears rose yesterday of an attack on Britain after IS papers found in Syria revealed plots to target Europe, Royal Marines Major General Matt Holmes DSO, our most senior officer in Afghanistan, told of the threat from Islamic State in the Khorasan, ISKP.
Maj Gen Holmes said: “The mission in Afghanistan for British troops ultimately is to protect our homeland and stop terrorists using this county as a safe haven for external attacks.
“Islamic State – Khorasan represents a very real threat to the UK. They are regarded as the enemies of everyone operating in Afghanistan, including the Taliban.”
Maj Gen Holmes said, ultimately, the responsibility for defeating Islamic State rested with the Afghans.
He said: “By empowering the Afghan security forces, enabling and advising them to stop terror groups getting traction, we help keep Britain safe.
“If terror groups see Afghanistan as an ungoverned space they can exploit it once more to plot attacks abroad.
“Afghanistan is a hugely complex and colourful country, but what we are seeing here is brave Afghan soldiers and police officers battling to secure it with the support of our NATO partners.
“There are many nations involved and Britain has and is playing an absolutely key role in making that mission work – to protect the homeland.
“There is a real unique chance for peace in Afghanistan. It is really important for all of us that it is seized. The Afghans deserve peace.”
As many as 456 British troops have died in conflict with the Afghan Taliban, along with 68,000 Afghan soldiers and 2,420 American personnel – with the civilian toll at 40,000.
The Mirror can reveal that UK forces here believe peace talks between the Taliban and the Afghan government could end almost 20 years of fighting.
Just days ago, three US soldiers were killed in a Taliban blast 30 miles from Kabul, but Afghan National Army Brigadier General Ihsanullah Azim confirmed peace talks were underway,when he spoke exclusively to the Mirror.
He said: “Hopefully there will be peace. It means the Taliban and the government will share power. Right now ISKP are operating in a few provinces.
“But hopefully we have these negotiations with the Taliban and the government.
“If the Taliban and the government come together thenDaeshwill not be significant. They will be easily defeated.”
Brigadier General Azim’s officers are trained at the Afghan National Army Officer Academy, where Brigadier Adam Griffiths OBE is the chief mentor.
He said: “We know there is a threat from IS. The Taliban do not like Daesh. The Afghans do not want to allow international terrorism to establish here.
“People are weary of fighting here. People have known nothing but war here. People are wary of the Taliban, but they are one part of the solution.”
The academy, dubbed “Sandhurst in the Sand”, has processed 4,295 officers, including 245 women, and we were given exclusive access, watching several hundred more officers graduate.
The top cadet, a local girl we agreed not to name, was praised for her “outstanding work and leadership skills”.
After she received an honorary sword, she swore to “serve my country with honour”.
As part of the 200,000-strong Afghan National Army, she may soon be concentrating on the growing threat from IS in the Khorasan Province.
IS has been here for four years, peaking at 4,000 fighters, but now reduced to around 1,000. Terrorist Khalid Masood trained in Afghanistan before killing five people in the Westminster Bridge attack in 2017.
Yesterday, it was reported that IS chiefs are planning atrocities across Europe.
The documents ask IS boss Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi for $10,000 (£7,600) to fund attacks similar to those carried out in Paris in 2015 which killed 130 people.
Lieutenant Colonel Chris Conroy, CO of 1 Royal Gurkha Rifles, heads up the “advisor force protection” group which runs more than 80 close protection missions a day in Kabul.
He said: “The Westminster attacker, who had spent a number of years in Afghanistan, came back to the UK. We need to keep the homeland safe.”
Afghan Taliban(numbers 40,000)
Ruled cruelly until the post-9-11 invasion, after they were accused of harbouring Osama bin Laden. The group has links to Pakistan but unlike the Pakistan Taliban is not interested in attacking the West – just getting rid of foreign troops.
Islamic State in the Khorasan(numbers 1,000, reduced from 4,000)
Terrorists at war with all of Afghanistan, including the Taliban. They are allied to IS and formed in 2014 after an Iraqi delegation visited.
Haqqani Network(numbers around 8,000)
They are the “Sopranos” of the Afghan war, a Taliban offshoot pledged to attack the Kabul regime and NATO.
They got the nickname because they are run Mafia-style. The Haqqanis have their Pashtun roots in south-east Afghanistan and have ties with the Taliban.
The job of the British soldier has altered significantly in Afghanistan.
Sergeant Scott Murray, 35, had three tours in Helmand when fighting was at its most violent.
He is close to finishing another six-month tour, his fourth, making it four years here with 1st Battalion The Royal Anglian Regiment.
And he has seen a change in tempo in fighting.
He said: “My first tour in Helmand in 2007 was force-on-force, next time we were fighting an insurgency with IEDs everywhere. It’s different now. I can see what’s been achieved.”
BREAKOUT 2
A boy as young as eight is feared to be the youngest Briton killed with Isis.
Isaac Ali was forced to go to Syria with his parents and died in a Western air strike which killed his dad Hussein.
His mum Nicole and three sisters have reportedly been found at a detention camp.
Isaac of west London was eight on his arrival in 2015, but the raid’s date is not known. The youngest known Brit killed with Isis was 12.
Isaac’s gran Charleen Jack-Henry called his father Hussein “wicked and evil”.
Get email updates with the day's biggest stories

Title: UN reports increase in civilian deaths in US, Afghan operations - World - DAWN.COM
WASHINGTON: In the first quarter of 2019, US and Afghan forces killed more civilians in Afghanistan than Taliban did, says a UN report released on Wednesday.
The UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA), however, reported that this year’s casualties were the lowest for a first quarter since 2013. Overall, civilian casualties decreased by 23 per cent as compared to the same period last year.
Read:Civilian deaths in Afghan war hit record in 2018: UN
From Jan 1 to March 31, the UNAMA documented 1,773 civilian casualties — 581 deaths and 1,192 injured. These included 582 child casualties as well — 150 deaths and 432 injured. The report claimed that “civilian deaths attributed to pro-government forces surpassed those attributed to anti-government elements during the first quarter of 2019”.
The UNAMA said it was “very concerned” by the continued targeting of civilians and increase in civilian casualties from the use of non-suicide devices by anti-government elements. It also reported a significant increase in civilian casualties from aerial and search operations, which “drove an overall increase in civilian casualties by pro-government forces”.
The data showed that ground engagements were the leading cause of civilian casualties, causing approximately one- third of the total. A single mortar attack incident by Daesh/Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) on March 7 in Kabul caused approximately one-fifth of all civilian casualties from ground engagements.
The use of improvised explosive devices (IEDs) was the second leading cause of civilian casualties. Contrary to 2017 and 2018 trends, the majority of IED-related civilian casualties were caused by non- suicide IEDs. Aerial operations were the leading cause of civilian deaths and the third leading cause of civilian casualties, followed by targeted killings and explosive remnants of war. Civilians living in Kabul were the most affected followed by those living in Helmand, Nangarhar, Faryab and Kunduz provinces.
The report pointed out that both pro- and anti-government forces were using armed attacks to gain leverage in theUS-Taliban peace talksin Doha, Qatar.
Published in Dawn, April 25th, 2019
Compunode.com Pvt. Ltd. (www.compunode.com).Designed forDawn.
Copyright © 2024, Dawn
NewsKit Publishing Platform

Title: UN reports increase in civilian deaths in US, Afghan operations - World - DAWN.COM
WASHINGTON: In the first quarter of 2019, US and Afghan forces killed more civilians in Afghanistan than Taliban did, says a UN report released on Wednesday.
The UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA), however, reported that this year’s casualties were the lowest for a first quarter since 2013. Overall, civilian casualties decreased by 23 per cent as compared to the same period last year.
Read:Civilian deaths in Afghan war hit record in 2018: UN
From Jan 1 to March 31, the UNAMA documented 1,773 civilian casualties — 581 deaths and 1,192 injured. These included 582 child casualties as well — 150 deaths and 432 injured. The report claimed that “civilian deaths attributed to pro-government forces surpassed those attributed to anti-government elements during the first quarter of 2019”.
The UNAMA said it was “very concerned” by the continued targeting of civilians and increase in civilian casualties from the use of non-suicide devices by anti-government elements. It also reported a significant increase in civilian casualties from aerial and search operations, which “drove an overall increase in civilian casualties by pro-government forces”.
The data showed that ground engagements were the leading cause of civilian casualties, causing approximately one- third of the total. A single mortar attack incident by Daesh/Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) on March 7 in Kabul caused approximately one-fifth of all civilian casualties from ground engagements.
The use of improvised explosive devices (IEDs) was the second leading cause of civilian casualties. Contrary to 2017 and 2018 trends, the majority of IED-related civilian casualties were caused by non- suicide IEDs. Aerial operations were the leading cause of civilian deaths and the third leading cause of civilian casualties, followed by targeted killings and explosive remnants of war. Civilians living in Kabul were the most affected followed by those living in Helmand, Nangarhar, Faryab and Kunduz provinces.
The report pointed out that both pro- and anti-government forces were using armed attacks to gain leverage in theUS-Taliban peace talksin Doha, Qatar.
Published in Dawn, April 25th, 2019
Compunode.com Pvt. Ltd. (www.compunode.com).Designed forDawn.
Copyright © 2024, Dawn
NewsKit Publishing Platform

Title:  Afghanistan- Civilian casualties fall by 23pc
ForgotUsernameorPassword

Date
(MENAFN- Afghanistan Times) AT News ReportKABUL: The UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) on
Wednesday released its quarterly report on the protection of civilian casualties
in armed conflict that indicated a 23 percent decrease in civilian casualties
across the country.According to report in the first quarter of 2019, the UNAMA
continued to document high levels of harm to civilians from the armed conflict.
From 1 January to 31 March 2019, UNAMA documented 1,773 civilian casualties
(581 deaths and 1,192 injured), including 582 child casualties (150 deaths and
432 injured). This represents a 23 percent decrease in overall civilian
casualties as compared to the same period last year and is the lowest for a first
quarter since 2013.The overall reduction of civilian casualties was driven by a
decrease in civilian casualties by suicide improvised explosive device (IED)
attacks. UNAMA notes the particularly harsh winter conditions during the first
three months of the year, which may have contributed to this trend. It is
unclear whether the decrease in civilian casualties was influenced by any
measures taken by parties to the conflict to better protect civilians, or by
the ongoing talks between parties to the conflict.UNAMA is very concerned by the continued targeting of
civilians and increase in civilian casualties from the use of non-suicide IEDs
by Anti-Government Elements, as well as significant increases in civilian
casualties from aerial and search operations, which drove an overall increase
in civilian casualties by Pro-Government Forces. Civilian deaths attributed to
Pro-Government Forces surpassed those attributed to Anti-Government Elements
during the first quarter of 2019. Ground engagements were the leading cause of
civilian casualties, causing approximately one third of the total. A single
mortar attack incident by Daesh/Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) on 7
March 2019 in Kabul caused approximately one-fifth of all civilian casualties
from ground engagements. The use of IEDs was the second leading cause of
civilian casualties. Contrary to 2017 and 2018 trends, the majority of IED
civilian casualties were caused by non-suicide IEDs rather than suicide IEDs.
Aerial operations were the leading cause of civilian deaths and the third
leading cause of civilian casualties, followed by targeted killings and
explosive remnants of war. Civilians living in Kabul, Helmand, Nangarhar,
Faryab and Kunduz provinces were most affected (in that order).The overall decrease in civilian casualties was largely
driven by a significant - 76 per cent - reduction in civilian casualties from
suicide IED attacks. During the first quarter of 2019, UNAMA documented four
suicide IED attacks resulting in 178 civilian casualties, as compared to 19
incidents resulting in 751 civilian casualties during the same period in 2018.
All four attacks were attributed to Taliban. Civilian casualties from ground
engagements also reduced by 13 percent. However, UNAMA is very concerned by
Anti-Government Elements' continued targeting of civilians and the increase in
civilian casualties from non-suicide IEDs (21 per cent increase), as well as
the continuing, significant increase in civilian casualties from aerial
operations (41 per cent increase) and search operations (85 per cent increase)
by Pro-Government Forces. Incidents Affecting Education and Healthcare Between
1 January and 31 March 2019, UNAMA recorded 18 incidents that impacted
education, 4 12 of which were attributed to Anti-Government Elements, four to
Pro-Government Forces, and two jointly to Anti-Government Elements and
Pro-Government Forces. Four of these incidents involved attacks by Taliban
targeting girls' schools in Farah province, mostly in areas under their
control, including setting the school buildings and equipment on fire. While no
casualties were recorded, the attacks spread fear among the students and their
families and led to school closures, affecting education for almost 3000 girls.
UNAMA also recorded 26 incidents impacting healthcare,5 17 of which were
attributed to the Taliban, seven to Pro-Government Forces, one to undetermined
Anti-Government Elements and one jointly to Pro-Government Forces and Taliban.
Six of the incidents attributed to the Taliban occurred in the Eastern region,
6 where 88 medical facilities were closed and three medical personnel were
abducted. The abductees were released either the same or following day, and
most clinics reopened days or weeks later, often as a result of mediation by
elders.Anti-Government Elements During the first three months of
2019, Anti-Government Elements remained responsible for the majority of
civilian casualties, causing 963 civilian casualties (227 deaths and 736
injured), representing a 36 per cent decrease as compared to the same time
period in 2018. UNAMA attributed 39 per cent of civilian casualties to Taliban,
12 per cent to Daesh/ISKP, and three per cent to unidentified Anti-Government
Elements. UNAMA remains seriously concerned about Anti-Government Element
attacks that deliberately target civilians, including the civilian government
administration. In the first quarter of 2019, UNAMA documented 529 civilian
casualties resulting from deliberate targeting of civilians. For instance, on 7
March in Kabul, Daesh/ISKP fired 12 mortar rounds into a crowd of people
marking the anniversary of the death of a prominent ethnic Hazara leader. As a
result, 11 civilians were killed and 104 were injured. Daesh/ISKP has claimed
responsibility for the incident. 7 In another incident on 23 March in Lashkar
Gah, Helmand province, Taliban carried out an IED attack against civilian
government officials during Nowruz celebrations, killing two civilians and
injuring another 45. 8 Taliban claimed responsibility for the incident. 9 While
civilian casualties from suicide IED attacks significantly decreased during the
first quarter of 2019 as compared to the first quarter of 2018, UNAMA
documented a 21 per cent increase in civilian casualties from non-suicide IED
attacks, resulting in 322 civilian casualties (53 deaths and 269 injured). 10
UNAMA reiterates its concern about the indiscriminate use of suicide and other
IEDs in civilian areas, as well as the deliberate targeting of civilians with
these devices. On 14 January 2019, in Kabul city, a suicide vehicle-borne IED
detonated near Green Village compound, in which several international companies
were based. Six civilians were killed and 140 injured, including 51 children
and 18 women, which was the highest number of civilian casualties caused in any
single incident in the first quarter of 2019. Many residential homes and
businesses in the area suffered damage. Taliban claimed responsibility for the
attack. 11UNAMA reminds Anti-Government Elements that the deliberate
targeting of civilians – including government officials – is prohibited under
international law and constitutes a war crime. The mission urges
Anti-Government Elements to apply a definition of civilian that accords with
international law and to take immediate measures to prevent civilian
casualties. Pro-Government Forces Between 1 January and 31 March 2019, UNAMA
attributed 608 civilian casualties (305 deaths and 303 injured) to
Pro-Government Forces, representing a 39 per cent increase from the same period
last year.12 UNAMA notes with concern that Pro-Government Forces were
responsible for more civilian deaths than Anti-Government Elements during the
first quarter of 2019. UNAMA attributed 17 per cent of civilian casualties to
the Afghan national security forces, 13 per cent to international military
forces, two per cent to pro-Government armed groups, and two per cent to
multiple Pro-Government Forces. Continuing trends observed in 2018, UNAMA
documented increased harm to civilians from aerial and search operations, with
the highest number of civilian casualties recorded from each of these tactic
types in the first quarter of any year since UNAMA began systematic
documentation. ProGovernment Forces carried out 43 aerial operations in the
first quarter of 2019 that resulted in 228 civilian casualties (145 deaths, 83
injured), with international military forces responsible for 39 of these
operations resulting in 219 civilian casualties (140 deaths, 79 injured). Women
and children comprised half of the civilian casualties from all aerial operations.
In one incident on 23 March in Kunduz city, international military forces
conducted an airstrike in support of Afghan forces on the ground, killing 13
civilians including 10 children and two women and injuring three more
civilians, including one child and one woman.13 Pro-Government Forces caused
102 civilian casualties (72 deaths and 30 injured) across 32 search operations,
which is an 85 per cent increase in civilian casualties as compared to the
first quarter of 2018.14 The majority – 80 per cent - of the search operations
resulting in civilian casualties were attributed to either the National
Directorate of Security Special Forces or the Khost Protection Force, both of
which are supported by international military forces. UNAMA reiterates its
concern that these forces appear to act with impunity, outside of the
governmental chain of command. UNAMA continues to call for more transparency
and accountability for these operations, and for the Government of Afghanistan
to either disband the Khost Protection Force or formally incorporate members
into its armed forces, following a robust vetting procedure.UNAMA welcomes President Ghani's instruction to national
security and defence officials on 13 March, following a series of incidents by
Pro-Government Forces that caused civilian casualties, to review the mechanisms
and procedures used in military operations with a view to preventing civilian
casualties.15 UNAMA looks forward to seeing progress on this issue. UNAMA urges
both the Afghan national security forces and international military forces to
conduct investigations into allegations of civilian casualties, to publish the
results of their findings, and to provide compensation to victims as
appropriate.MENAFN2404201901690000ID1098435453
KABUL: The UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) on
Wednesday released its quarterly report on the protection of civilian casualties
in armed conflict that indicated a 23 percent decrease in civilian casualties
across the country.According to report in the first quarter of 2019, the UNAMA
continued to document high levels of harm to civilians from the armed conflict.
From 1 January to 31 March 2019, UNAMA documented 1,773 civilian casualties
(581 deaths and 1,192 injured), including 582 child casualties (150 deaths and
432 injured). This represents a 23 percent decrease in overall civilian
casualties as compared to the same period last year and is the lowest for a first
quarter since 2013.The overall reduction of civilian casualties was driven by a
decrease in civilian casualties by suicide improvised explosive device (IED)
attacks. UNAMA notes the particularly harsh winter conditions during the first
three months of the year, which may have contributed to this trend. It is
unclear whether the decrease in civilian casualties was influenced by any
measures taken by parties to the conflict to better protect civilians, or by
the ongoing talks between parties to the conflict.UNAMA is very concerned by the continued targeting of
civilians and increase in civilian casualties from the use of non-suicide IEDs
by Anti-Government Elements, as well as significant increases in civilian
casualties from aerial and search operations, which drove an overall increase
in civilian casualties by Pro-Government Forces. Civilian deaths attributed to
Pro-Government Forces surpassed those attributed to Anti-Government Elements
during the first quarter of 2019. Ground engagements were the leading cause of
civilian casualties, causing approximately one third of the total. A single
mortar attack incident by Daesh/Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) on 7
March 2019 in Kabul caused approximately one-fifth of all civilian casualties
from ground engagements. The use of IEDs was the second leading cause of
civilian casualties. Contrary to 2017 and 2018 trends, the majority of IED
civilian casualties were caused by non-suicide IEDs rather than suicide IEDs.
Aerial operations were the leading cause of civilian deaths and the third
leading cause of civilian casualties, followed by targeted killings and
explosive remnants of war. Civilians living in Kabul, Helmand, Nangarhar,
Faryab and Kunduz provinces were most affected (in that order).The overall decrease in civilian casualties was largely
driven by a significant - 76 per cent - reduction in civilian casualties from
suicide IED attacks. During the first quarter of 2019, UNAMA documented four
suicide IED attacks resulting in 178 civilian casualties, as compared to 19
incidents resulting in 751 civilian casualties during the same period in 2018.
All four attacks were attributed to Taliban. Civilian casualties from ground
engagements also reduced by 13 percent. However, UNAMA is very concerned by
Anti-Government Elements' continued targeting of civilians and the increase in
civilian casualties from non-suicide IEDs (21 per cent increase), as well as
the continuing, significant increase in civilian casualties from aerial
operations (41 per cent increase) and search operations (85 per cent increase)
by Pro-Government Forces. Incidents Affecting Education and Healthcare Between
1 January and 31 March 2019, UNAMA recorded 18 incidents that impacted
education, 4 12 of which were attributed to Anti-Government Elements, four to
Pro-Government Forces, and two jointly to Anti-Government Elements and
Pro-Government Forces. Four of these incidents involved attacks by Taliban
targeting girls' schools in Farah province, mostly in areas under their
control, including setting the school buildings and equipment on fire. While no
casualties were recorded, the attacks spread fear among the students and their
families and led to school closures, affecting education for almost 3000 girls.
UNAMA also recorded 26 incidents impacting healthcare,5 17 of which were
attributed to the Taliban, seven to Pro-Government Forces, one to undetermined
Anti-Government Elements and one jointly to Pro-Government Forces and Taliban.
Six of the incidents attributed to the Taliban occurred in the Eastern region,
6 where 88 medical facilities were closed and three medical personnel were
abducted. The abductees were released either the same or following day, and
most clinics reopened days or weeks later, often as a result of mediation by
elders.Anti-Government Elements During the first three months of
2019, Anti-Government Elements remained responsible for the majority of
civilian casualties, causing 963 civilian casualties (227 deaths and 736
injured), representing a 36 per cent decrease as compared to the same time
period in 2018. UNAMA attributed 39 per cent of civilian casualties to Taliban,
12 per cent to Daesh/ISKP, and three per cent to unidentified Anti-Government
Elements. UNAMA remains seriously concerned about Anti-Government Element
attacks that deliberately target civilians, including the civilian government
administration. In the first quarter of 2019, UNAMA documented 529 civilian
casualties resulting from deliberate targeting of civilians. For instance, on 7
March in Kabul, Daesh/ISKP fired 12 mortar rounds into a crowd of people
marking the anniversary of the death of a prominent ethnic Hazara leader. As a
result, 11 civilians were killed and 104 were injured. Daesh/ISKP has claimed
responsibility for the incident. 7 In another incident on 23 March in Lashkar
Gah, Helmand province, Taliban carried out an IED attack against civilian
government officials during Nowruz celebrations, killing two civilians and
injuring another 45. 8 Taliban claimed responsibility for the incident. 9 While
civilian casualties from suicide IED attacks significantly decreased during the
first quarter of 2019 as compared to the first quarter of 2018, UNAMA
documented a 21 per cent increase in civilian casualties from non-suicide IED
attacks, resulting in 322 civilian casualties (53 deaths and 269 injured). 10
UNAMA reiterates its concern about the indiscriminate use of suicide and other
IEDs in civilian areas, as well as the deliberate targeting of civilians with
these devices. On 14 January 2019, in Kabul city, a suicide vehicle-borne IED
detonated near Green Village compound, in which several international companies
were based. Six civilians were killed and 140 injured, including 51 children
and 18 women, which was the highest number of civilian casualties caused in any
single incident in the first quarter of 2019. Many residential homes and
businesses in the area suffered damage. Taliban claimed responsibility for the
attack. 11UNAMA reminds Anti-Government Elements that the deliberate
targeting of civilians – including government officials – is prohibited under
international law and constitutes a war crime. The mission urges
Anti-Government Elements to apply a definition of civilian that accords with
international law and to take immediate measures to prevent civilian
casualties. Pro-Government Forces Between 1 January and 31 March 2019, UNAMA
attributed 608 civilian casualties (305 deaths and 303 injured) to
Pro-Government Forces, representing a 39 per cent increase from the same period
last year.12 UNAMA notes with concern that Pro-Government Forces were
responsible for more civilian deaths than Anti-Government Elements during the
first quarter of 2019. UNAMA attributed 17 per cent of civilian casualties to
the Afghan national security forces, 13 per cent to international military
forces, two per cent to pro-Government armed groups, and two per cent to
multiple Pro-Government Forces. Continuing trends observed in 2018, UNAMA
documented increased harm to civilians from aerial and search operations, with
the highest number of civilian casualties recorded from each of these tactic
types in the first quarter of any year since UNAMA began systematic
documentation. ProGovernment Forces carried out 43 aerial operations in the
first quarter of 2019 that resulted in 228 civilian casualties (145 deaths, 83
injured), with international military forces responsible for 39 of these
operations resulting in 219 civilian casualties (140 deaths, 79 injured). Women
and children comprised half of the civilian casualties from all aerial operations.
In one incident on 23 March in Kunduz city, international military forces
conducted an airstrike in support of Afghan forces on the ground, killing 13
civilians including 10 children and two women and injuring three more
civilians, including one child and one woman.13 Pro-Government Forces caused
102 civilian casualties (72 deaths and 30 injured) across 32 search operations,
which is an 85 per cent increase in civilian casualties as compared to the
first quarter of 2018.14 The majority – 80 per cent - of the search operations
resulting in civilian casualties were attributed to either the National
Directorate of Security Special Forces or the Khost Protection Force, both of
which are supported by international military forces. UNAMA reiterates its
concern that these forces appear to act with impunity, outside of the
governmental chain of command. UNAMA continues to call for more transparency
and accountability for these operations, and for the Government of Afghanistan
to either disband the Khost Protection Force or formally incorporate members
into its armed forces, following a robust vetting procedure.UNAMA welcomes President Ghani's instruction to national
security and defence officials on 13 March, following a series of incidents by
Pro-Government Forces that caused civilian casualties, to review the mechanisms
and procedures used in military operations with a view to preventing civilian
casualties.15 UNAMA looks forward to seeing progress on this issue. UNAMA urges
both the Afghan national security forces and international military forces to
conduct investigations into allegations of civilian casualties, to publish the
results of their findings, and to provide compensation to victims as
appropriate.MENAFN2404201901690000ID1098435453
KABUL: The UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) on
Wednesday released its quarterly report on the protection of civilian casualties
in armed conflict that indicated a 23 percent decrease in civilian casualties
across the country.
According to report in the first quarter of 2019, the UNAMA
continued to document high levels of harm to civilians from the armed conflict.
From 1 January to 31 March 2019, UNAMA documented 1,773 civilian casualties
(581 deaths and 1,192 injured), including 582 child casualties (150 deaths and
432 injured). This represents a 23 percent decrease in overall civilian
casualties as compared to the same period last year and is the lowest for a first
quarter since 2013.
The overall reduction of civilian casualties was driven by a
decrease in civilian casualties by suicide improvised explosive device (IED)
attacks. UNAMA notes the particularly harsh winter conditions during the first
three months of the year, which may have contributed to this trend. It is
unclear whether the decrease in civilian casualties was influenced by any
measures taken by parties to the conflict to better protect civilians, or by
the ongoing talks between parties to the conflict.
UNAMA is very concerned by the continued targeting of
civilians and increase in civilian casualties from the use of non-suicide IEDs
by Anti-Government Elements, as well as significant increases in civilian
casualties from aerial and search operations, which drove an overall increase
in civilian casualties by Pro-Government Forces. Civilian deaths attributed to
Pro-Government Forces surpassed those attributed to Anti-Government Elements
during the first quarter of 2019. Ground engagements were the leading cause of
civilian casualties, causing approximately one third of the total. A single
mortar attack incident by Daesh/Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) on 7
March 2019 in Kabul caused approximately one-fifth of all civilian casualties
from ground engagements. The use of IEDs was the second leading cause of
civilian casualties. Contrary to 2017 and 2018 trends, the majority of IED
civilian casualties were caused by non-suicide IEDs rather than suicide IEDs.
Aerial operations were the leading cause of civilian deaths and the third
leading cause of civilian casualties, followed by targeted killings and
explosive remnants of war. Civilians living in Kabul, Helmand, Nangarhar,
Faryab and Kunduz provinces were most affected (in that order).
The overall decrease in civilian casualties was largely
driven by a significant - 76 per cent - reduction in civilian casualties from
suicide IED attacks. During the first quarter of 2019, UNAMA documented four
suicide IED attacks resulting in 178 civilian casualties, as compared to 19
incidents resulting in 751 civilian casualties during the same period in 2018.
All four attacks were attributed to Taliban. Civilian casualties from ground
engagements also reduced by 13 percent. However, UNAMA is very concerned by
Anti-Government Elements' continued targeting of civilians and the increase in
civilian casualties from non-suicide IEDs (21 per cent increase), as well as
the continuing, significant increase in civilian casualties from aerial
operations (41 per cent increase) and search operations (85 per cent increase)
by Pro-Government Forces. Incidents Affecting Education and Healthcare Between
1 January and 31 March 2019, UNAMA recorded 18 incidents that impacted
education, 4 12 of which were attributed to Anti-Government Elements, four to
Pro-Government Forces, and two jointly to Anti-Government Elements and
Pro-Government Forces. Four of these incidents involved attacks by Taliban
targeting girls' schools in Farah province, mostly in areas under their
control, including setting the school buildings and equipment on fire. While no
casualties were recorded, the attacks spread fear among the students and their
families and led to school closures, affecting education for almost 3000 girls.
UNAMA also recorded 26 incidents impacting healthcare,5 17 of which were
attributed to the Taliban, seven to Pro-Government Forces, one to undetermined
Anti-Government Elements and one jointly to Pro-Government Forces and Taliban.
Six of the incidents attributed to the Taliban occurred in the Eastern region,
6 where 88 medical facilities were closed and three medical personnel were
abducted. The abductees were released either the same or following day, and
most clinics reopened days or weeks later, often as a result of mediation by
elders.
Anti-Government Elements During the first three months of
2019, Anti-Government Elements remained responsible for the majority of
civilian casualties, causing 963 civilian casualties (227 deaths and 736
injured), representing a 36 per cent decrease as compared to the same time
period in 2018. UNAMA attributed 39 per cent of civilian casualties to Taliban,
12 per cent to Daesh/ISKP, and three per cent to unidentified Anti-Government
Elements. UNAMA remains seriously concerned about Anti-Government Element
attacks that deliberately target civilians, including the civilian government
administration. In the first quarter of 2019, UNAMA documented 529 civilian
casualties resulting from deliberate targeting of civilians. For instance, on 7
March in Kabul, Daesh/ISKP fired 12 mortar rounds into a crowd of people
marking the anniversary of the death of a prominent ethnic Hazara leader. As a
result, 11 civilians were killed and 104 were injured. Daesh/ISKP has claimed
responsibility for the incident. 7 In another incident on 23 March in Lashkar
Gah, Helmand province, Taliban carried out an IED attack against civilian
government officials during Nowruz celebrations, killing two civilians and
injuring another 45. 8 Taliban claimed responsibility for the incident. 9 While
civilian casualties from suicide IED attacks significantly decreased during the
first quarter of 2019 as compared to the first quarter of 2018, UNAMA
documented a 21 per cent increase in civilian casualties from non-suicide IED
attacks, resulting in 322 civilian casualties (53 deaths and 269 injured). 10
UNAMA reiterates its concern about the indiscriminate use of suicide and other
IEDs in civilian areas, as well as the deliberate targeting of civilians with
these devices. On 14 January 2019, in Kabul city, a suicide vehicle-borne IED
detonated near Green Village compound, in which several international companies
were based. Six civilians were killed and 140 injured, including 51 children
and 18 women, which was the highest number of civilian casualties caused in any
single incident in the first quarter of 2019. Many residential homes and
businesses in the area suffered damage. Taliban claimed responsibility for the
attack. 11
UNAMA reminds Anti-Government Elements that the deliberate
targeting of civilians – including government officials – is prohibited under
international law and constitutes a war crime. The mission urges
Anti-Government Elements to apply a definition of civilian that accords with
international law and to take immediate measures to prevent civilian
casualties. Pro-Government Forces Between 1 January and 31 March 2019, UNAMA
attributed 608 civilian casualties (305 deaths and 303 injured) to
Pro-Government Forces, representing a 39 per cent increase from the same period
last year.12 UNAMA notes with concern that Pro-Government Forces were
responsible for more civilian deaths than Anti-Government Elements during the
first quarter of 2019. UNAMA attributed 17 per cent of civilian casualties to
the Afghan national security forces, 13 per cent to international military
forces, two per cent to pro-Government armed groups, and two per cent to
multiple Pro-Government Forces. Continuing trends observed in 2018, UNAMA
documented increased harm to civilians from aerial and search operations, with
the highest number of civilian casualties recorded from each of these tactic
types in the first quarter of any year since UNAMA began systematic
documentation. ProGovernment Forces carried out 43 aerial operations in the
first quarter of 2019 that resulted in 228 civilian casualties (145 deaths, 83
injured), with international military forces responsible for 39 of these
operations resulting in 219 civilian casualties (140 deaths, 79 injured). Women
and children comprised half of the civilian casualties from all aerial operations.
In one incident on 23 March in Kunduz city, international military forces
conducted an airstrike in support of Afghan forces on the ground, killing 13
civilians including 10 children and two women and injuring three more
civilians, including one child and one woman.13 Pro-Government Forces caused
102 civilian casualties (72 deaths and 30 injured) across 32 search operations,
which is an 85 per cent increase in civilian casualties as compared to the
first quarter of 2018.14 The majority – 80 per cent - of the search operations
resulting in civilian casualties were attributed to either the National
Directorate of Security Special Forces or the Khost Protection Force, both of
which are supported by international military forces. UNAMA reiterates its
concern that these forces appear to act with impunity, outside of the
governmental chain of command. UNAMA continues to call for more transparency
and accountability for these operations, and for the Government of Afghanistan
to either disband the Khost Protection Force or formally incorporate members
into its armed forces, following a robust vetting procedure.
UNAMA welcomes President Ghani's instruction to national
security and defence officials on 13 March, following a series of incidents by
Pro-Government Forces that caused civilian casualties, to review the mechanisms
and procedures used in military operations with a view to preventing civilian
casualties.15 UNAMA looks forward to seeing progress on this issue. UNAMA urges
both the Afghan national security forces and international military forces to
conduct investigations into allegations of civilian casualties, to publish the
results of their findings, and to provide compensation to victims as
appropriate.
MENAFN2404201901690000ID1098435453
MENAFN2404201901690000ID1098435453
Legal Disclaimer:MENAFNprovides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.

Tags
Comments
Category
Date
Daily(English)Daily(Arabic)All()

World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data.
Contact UsClick here
Copyright © 2000MENAFN.All rights reserved.
Design & Devleopment byMENAFN

Title: Islamic State Operatives Captured as Afghan Forces Battle Taliban
Print
Counterterrorism forces have captured 16 operatives of the Islamic State (IS) terror group, including online recruiters, authorities in Afghanistan said Thursday.
The operation comes as Taliban insurgents have staged a major assault on a troubled northwestern district, killing at least a dozen Afghan security forces.
The Afghan spy agency, National Directorate of Security (NDS), said a group of six men picked up in capital city Kabul confessed to using hundreds of fake accounts on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Telegram to recruit fighters and promote IS ideology in the country.
The rest of the 10 detainees, described as "Daesh facilitators" — using an Arabic acronym for Islamic State — were captured during anti-terror operations in eastern Nangarhar province, according to NDS. The terrorist group calls its Afghan affiliate IS Khorasan Province (ISKP).
IS emerged in Afghanistan in early 2015 from bases in southern districts of Nangarhar, which borders Pakistan. The terrorist outfit, however, has since faced regular ground and air offensives against its bases from U.S.-backed Afghan security forces, losing thousands of fighters. "The Taliban insurgents also have attacked IS militants to prevent them from establishing a foothold in the country."
The United Nations reported Thursday that ongoing fierce clashes between Taliban and IS fighters in parts of Nangarhar and neighboring Kunar province have displaced more than 3,000 Afghan families. It said the displaced people have mostly relocated to nearby safe villages in Taliban-controlled areas.
Taliban in Badghis
Meanwhile, intense battles have been raging between government security forces and Taliban insurgents in the Bala Murghab district of western Badghis province, causing heavy casualties on both sides. The Taliban stormed military and police bases overnight near the district center and killed at least 12 Afghan force members as they took several others hostage.
The Afghan Defense Ministry said in a statement its ground forces were engaged in a counteroffensive, and its A-29 attack aircraft also were dropping bombs on Taliban positions in Bala Murghab, inflicting heavy casualties on the insurgents.
A Taliban spokesman claimed its fighters remained in control of several outposts.
This is the second Taliban attack against Bala Murghab in less than a month. The insurgents have besieged the remote Afghan district for days, killing and injuring dozens of government forces.
The Taliban has intensified battlefield attacks in many provinces of Afghanistan, which is typical for them in the spring. The United States also has stepped up efforts to seek a negotiated settlement to the conflict with the Taliban, and it has encouraged the rebel group to engage in an intra-Afghan peace dialogue.


Title: No title found


Title: Islamic State Operatives Captured as Afghan Forces Battle Taliban
By Ayaz Gul April 04, 2019
Counterterrorism forces have captured 16 operatives of the Islamic State (IS) terror group, including online recruiters, authorities in Afghanistan said Thursday.
The operation comes as Taliban insurgents have staged a major assault on a troubled northwestern district, killing at least a dozen Afghan security forces.
The Afghan spy agency, National Directorate of Security (NDS), said a group of six men picked up in capital city Kabul confessed to using hundreds of fake accounts on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and Telegram to recruit fighters and promote IS ideology in the country.
The rest of the 10 detainees, described as "Daesh facilitators" – using an Arabic acronym for Islamic State – were captured during anti-terror operations in eastern Nangarhar province, according to NDS. The terrorist group calls its Afghan affiliate IS Khorasan Province (ISKP).
IS emerged in Afghanistan in early 2015 from bases in southern districts of Nangarhar, which borders Pakistan. The terrorist outfit, however, has since faced regular ground and air offensives against its bases from U.S.-backed Afghan security forces, losing thousands of fighters. "The Taliban insurgents also have attacked IS militants to prevent them from establishing a foothold in the country."
The United Nations reported Thursday that ongoing fierce clashes between Taliban and IS fighters in parts of Nangarhar and neighboring Kunar province have displaced more than 3,000 Afghan families. It said the displaced people have mostly relocated to nearby safe villages in Taliban-controlled areas.
Taliban in Badghis
Meanwhile, intense battles have been raging between government security forces and Taliban insurgents in the Bala Murghab district of western Badghis province, causing heavy casualties on both sides. The Taliban stormed military and police bases overnight near the district center and killed at least 12 Afghan force members as they took several others hostage.
The Afghan Defense Ministry said in a statement its ground forces were engaged in a counteroffensive, and its A-29 attack aircraft also were dropping bombs on Taliban positions in Bala Murghab, inflicting heavy casualties on the insurgents.
A Taliban spokesman claimed its fighters remained in control of several outposts.
This is the second Taliban attack against Bala Murghab in less than a month. The insurgents have besieged the remote Afghan district for days, killing and injuring dozens of government forces.
The Taliban has intensified battlefield attacks in many provinces of Afghanistan, which is typical for them in the spring. The United States also has stepped up efforts to seek a negotiated settlement to the conflict with the Taliban, and it has encouraged the rebel group to engage in an intra-Afghan peace dialogue.



Title: ISIS group ISIS-K in Afghanistan appears ready to strike United States
WASHINGTON – ISIS-affiliated terrorists in Afghanistan, noted for their brutality in a brutal land, pose the topthreat for spectacular attacks in the United States, according to a senior U.S. intelligence official.
The group known as ISIS-K, like al-Qaeda, which plotted the 9/11 terror attacks from Afghanistan, also has designs on striking targets in Western nations, said the U.S. intelligence official, who is not authorized to speak publicly.
ISIS-K has hundreds of fighters and has shown increasing effectiveness in its tactics and recruiting in Afghanistan, said Sen. Jack Reed, D-R.I.), the ranking member of the Armed Services Committee who recently visited Afghanistan.
"It's growing in sophistication and numbers," Reed said.
The making of an American terroristHoda Muthana joined ISIS. Now she can’t come back
ISIS bride:Should Hoda Muthana be allowed to return from ISIS for trial in the U.S.? Trump says no.
Inspiring, financing and directing attacks abroad is a key goal. A chief worry: a terrorist recruit, for example, driving a truck through a crowd in the United States, the intelligence official said, citing the type of assault the group aspires to.
The K in ISIS-K stands for Khorasan, the Islamic State's affiliate in Pakistan and Afghanistan, where U.S.-led forces have fought Taliban and al Qaeda militants since 2001. About 14,000 U.S. troops remain in Afghanistan, half of them assigned to counter-terrorism missions, including combating ISIS-K militants.
About 2,400 U.S. troops have been killed in Afghanistan. More than 140,000 Afghan troops, militants and civilians have died in the fight, according to a study by Brown University.
In the last three years, ISIS-K has been emboldened by success in Afghanistan, said the senior intelligence official.
For instance, it mounted six major attacks in the Afghan capital of Kabul in 2016. That grew to 18 attacks in 2017 and 24 in 2018, the official said. The group is on pace to match or exceed that total this year.
ISIS-K has sought recruits among disaffected college graduates in Kabul, the official said. Doing so allows them to tap into their expertise gained in school and their ability to obtain visas and travel the world as terrorist operatives.
U.S.-led counter-terrorism strikes and law enforcement efforts have prevented ISIS-K from attacking targets in the United States, the official said. Gen. Joseph Votel, the recently retired commander of U.S. Central Command, said the group was “not reconcilable” and required eradication.
Preventing 'lone wolf' attacks:Why a seemingly unplanned terrorist attack in Maryland is the hardest kind to prevent
'An unnecessary, dangerous attempt':Trump vetoes resolution to end US support in Yemen
To that end, U.S.-led airstrikes have pounded ISIS-K strongholds in Afghanistan's Nangarhar province, most notably the usein 2017 of the largest conventional bomb in the U.S. arsenal, the Massive Ordnance Air Blast, also known as the Mother of All Bombs. The explosion killed an estimated 96 ISIS-K fighters.
The group, however, has shown its resilience matched by toughness and brutality.
ISIS-K has lured the hardest of the hard core, he said. Afghanistan allows them the chance to kill their top targets: western troops, a corrupt local government and Taliban fighters who are not sufficiently committed to their cause. Afghanistan's harsh terrain and lack of governance is an ideal environment to train fighters to shoot and communicate, the intelligence official said.
Want news from USA TODAY on WhatsApp?Click this link on your mobile device to get started
The group considers the Taliban, whose harsh rule of Afghanistan ended in 2001 and has mounted an 18-year insurgency, to be too lax in its interpretation of Islam, the official said.
ISIS-K fights the Taliban daily and has seized territory from it. ISIS-K fighters decapitated a local imam, sympathetic but insufficiently devout, and put his head on a pike as a warning to villagers, the official said.
As evidence of their commitment, the official pointed to intelligence gathered over the winter that showed that ISIS-K fighters stranded in mountain passes surviving on a dwindling supply of pine nuts. They preferred starving to profiting from the lucrative trade in opium, he said.


Title: ISIS offshoot in Afghanistan willing, able to strike US, says intelligence official
WASHINGTON – ISIS-affiliated terrorists in Afghanistan, noted for their brutality in a brutal land, pose the topthreat for spectacular attacks in the United States, according to a senior U.S. intelligence official.
The group known as ISIS-K, like al-Qaeda, which plotted the 9/11 terror attacks from Afghanistan, also has designs on striking targets in Western nations, said the U.S. intelligence official, who is not authorized to speak publicly.
ISIS-K has hundreds of fighters and has shown increasing effectiveness in its tactics and recruiting in Afghanistan, said Sen. Jack Reed, D-R.I.), the ranking member of the Armed Services Committee who recently visited Afghanistan.
"It's growing in sophistication and numbers," Reed said.
The making of an American terroristHoda Muthana joined ISIS. Now she can’t come back
ISIS bride:Should Hoda Muthana be allowed to return from ISIS for trial in the U.S.? Trump says no.
Inspiring, financing and directing attacks abroad is a key goal. A chief worry: a terrorist recruit, for example, driving a truck through a crowd in the United States, the intelligence official said, citing the type of assault the group aspires to.
The K in ISIS-K stands for Khorasan, the Islamic State's affiliate in Pakistan and Afghanistan, where U.S.-led forces have fought Taliban and al Qaeda militants since 2001. About 14,000 U.S. troops remain in Afghanistan, half of them assigned to counter-terrorism missions, including combating ISIS-K militants.
About 2,400 U.S. troops have been killed in Afghanistan. More than 140,000 Afghan troops, militants and civilians have died in the fight, according to a study by Brown University.
In the last three years, ISIS-K has been emboldened by success in Afghanistan, said the senior intelligence official.
For instance, it mounted six major attacks in the Afghan capital of Kabul in 2016. That grew to 18 attacks in 2017 and 24 in 2018, the official said. The group is on pace to match or exceed that total this year.
ISIS-K has sought recruits among disaffected college graduates in Kabul, the official said. Doing so allows them to tap into their expertise gained in school and their ability to obtain visas and travel the world as terrorist operatives.
U.S.-led counter-terrorism strikes and law enforcement efforts have prevented ISIS-K from attacking targets in the United States, the official said. Gen. Joseph Votel, the recently retired commander of U.S. Central Command, said the group was “not reconcilable” and required eradication.
Preventing 'lone wolf' attacks:Why a seemingly unplanned terrorist attack in Maryland is the hardest kind to prevent
'An unnecessary, dangerous attempt':Trump vetoes resolution to end US support in Yemen
To that end, U.S.-led airstrikes have pounded ISIS-K strongholds in Afghanistan's Nangarhar province, most notably the usein 2017 of the largest conventional bomb in the U.S. arsenal, the Massive Ordnance Air Blast, also known as the Mother of All Bombs. The explosion killed an estimated 96 ISIS-K fighters.
The group, however, has shown its resilience matched by toughness and brutality.
ISIS-K has lured the hardest of the hard core, he said. Afghanistan allows them the chance to kill their top targets: western troops, a corrupt local government and Taliban fighters who are not sufficiently committed to their cause. Afghanistan's harsh terrain and lack of governance is an ideal environment to train fighters to shoot and communicate, the intelligence official said.
Want news from USA TODAY on WhatsApp?Click this link on your mobile device to get started
The group considers the Taliban, whose harsh rule of Afghanistan ended in 2001 and has mounted an 18-year insurgency, to be too lax in its interpretation of Islam, the official said.
ISIS-K fights the Taliban daily and has seized territory from it. ISIS-K fighters decapitated a local imam, sympathetic but insufficiently devout, and put his head on a pike as a warning to villagers, the official said.
As evidence of their commitment, the official pointed to intelligence gathered over the winter that showed that ISIS-K fighters stranded in mountain passes surviving on a dwindling supply of pine nuts. They preferred starving to profiting from the lucrative trade in opium, he said.
This article originally appeared on USA TODAY:ISIS offshoot in Afghanistan willing, able to strike US, says intelligence official
This college football season is still devoid of major upsets, but some teams have played tougher schedules than others.
Week 3 is in the books and oh my there's a lot of panic on these fantasy streets. Dalton Del Don joins Scott Pianowski for another edition of the 'People's Panic Meter' to answer all of your listener submissions. The duo examines the situations for Anthony Richardson, Brandon Aiyuk and the entire TE position.
With only 117 in MLB history, an immaculate inning is rarer than a no-hitter.
A Colorado ending so nice they stormed the field twice.
No, Mr. Monopoly didn't have a monocle — it's just one example of a false memory that many of us share, an expert says.
The conference has already received a commitment from Utah State and sent to UNLV an offer to join the league, sources tell Yahoo Sports.
The Volunteers won on the road at Oklahoma on Saturday.
These are today's mortgage and refinance rates. The rates on a few terms have increased today, but many rates have fallen. Lock in your rate today.
Plus, it's clear now the city of Green Bay has made a deal with the devil when it comes to QBs.
The 2024 Cardinals were average in run prevention and below average in run production.
At age 34, Sale’s likely Cy Young season will go down as one of the more improbable performances in recent memory.
MacOS Sequoia is the rare Mac update you should install immediately, especially if you're an iPhone user.
A teardown by iFixit now shows the new battery removal process in action, and it looks easier than ever.
Disney's parks business is slowing. But that might not be as concerning as it seems.
Caitlin Clark, possibly coming to an MLB broadcast booth near you.
Texas jumped Georgia on Sunday, and that means a bracket overhaul.
Cards Against Humanity filed a $15 million lawsuit against SpaceX for trespassing on property it owns in Texas, which happens to sit near SpaceX facilities.
The UConn star will likely be the No. 1 pick in the 2025 WNBA Draft, bringing with her an elite skill set that can instantly elevate any team.
For the third time in her career, A'ja Wilson is the WNBA MVP. And this time, it was unanimous — she joins Cynthia Cooper-Dyke as the only player to win the award unanimously.
The Tigers turned it over five times in a 24-14 loss to Arkansas.

Title: MSN


Title: MSN


Title: ISIS group ISIS-K in Afghanistan appears ready to strike United States
WASHINGTON – ISIS-affiliated terrorists in Afghanistan, noted for their brutality in a brutal land, pose the topthreat for spectacular attacks in the United States, according to a senior U.S. intelligence official.
The group known as ISIS-K, like al-Qaeda, which plotted the 9/11 terror attacks from Afghanistan, also has designs on striking targets in Western nations, said the U.S. intelligence official, who is not authorized to speak publicly.
ISIS-K has hundreds of fighters and has shown increasing effectiveness in its tactics and recruiting in Afghanistan, said Sen. Jack Reed, D-R.I.), the ranking member of the Armed Services Committee who recently visited Afghanistan.
"It's growing in sophistication and numbers," Reed said.
The making of an American terroristHoda Muthana joined ISIS. Now she can’t come back
ISIS bride:Should Hoda Muthana be allowed to return from ISIS for trial in the U.S.? Trump says no.
Inspiring, financing and directing attacks abroad is a key goal. A chief worry: a terrorist recruit, for example, driving a truck through a crowd in the United States, the intelligence official said, citing the type of assault the group aspires to.
The K in ISIS-K stands for Khorasan, the Islamic State's affiliate in Pakistan and Afghanistan, where U.S.-led forces have fought Taliban and al Qaeda militants since 2001. About 14,000 U.S. troops remain in Afghanistan, half of them assigned to counter-terrorism missions, including combating ISIS-K militants.
About 2,400 U.S. troops have been killed in Afghanistan. More than 140,000 Afghan troops, militants and civilians have died in the fight, according to a study by Brown University.
In the last three years, ISIS-K has been emboldened by success in Afghanistan, said the senior intelligence official.
For instance, it mounted six major attacks in the Afghan capital of Kabul in 2016. That grew to 18 attacks in 2017 and 24 in 2018, the official said. The group is on pace to match or exceed that total this year.
ISIS-K has sought recruits among disaffected college graduates in Kabul, the official said. Doing so allows them to tap into their expertise gained in school and their ability to obtain visas and travel the world as terrorist operatives.
U.S.-led counter-terrorism strikes and law enforcement efforts have prevented ISIS-K from attacking targets in the United States, the official said. Gen. Joseph Votel, the recently retired commander of U.S. Central Command, said the group was “not reconcilable” and required eradication.
Preventing 'lone wolf' attacks:Why a seemingly unplanned terrorist attack in Maryland is the hardest kind to prevent
'An unnecessary, dangerous attempt':Trump vetoes resolution to end US support in Yemen
To that end, U.S.-led airstrikes have pounded ISIS-K strongholds in Afghanistan's Nangarhar province, most notably the usein 2017 of the largest conventional bomb in the U.S. arsenal, the Massive Ordnance Air Blast, also known as the Mother of All Bombs. The explosion killed an estimated 96 ISIS-K fighters.
The group, however, has shown its resilience matched by toughness and brutality.
ISIS-K has lured the hardest of the hard core, he said. Afghanistan allows them the chance to kill their top targets: western troops, a corrupt local government and Taliban fighters who are not sufficiently committed to their cause. Afghanistan's harsh terrain and lack of governance is an ideal environment to train fighters to shoot and communicate, the intelligence official said.
Want news from USA TODAY on WhatsApp?Click this link on your mobile device to get started
The group considers the Taliban, whose harsh rule of Afghanistan ended in 2001 and has mounted an 18-year insurgency, to be too lax in its interpretation of Islam, the official said.
ISIS-K fights the Taliban daily and has seized territory from it. ISIS-K fighters decapitated a local imam, sympathetic but insufficiently devout, and put his head on a pike as a warning to villagers, the official said.
As evidence of their commitment, the official pointed to intelligence gathered over the winter that showed that ISIS-K fighters stranded in mountain passes surviving on a dwindling supply of pine nuts. They preferred starving to profiting from the lucrative trade in opium, he said.


Title: ISIS group ISIS-K in Afghanistan appears ready to strike United States
WASHINGTON – ISIS-affiliated terrorists in Afghanistan, noted for their brutality in a brutal land, pose the topthreat for spectacular attacks in the United States, according to a senior U.S. intelligence official.
The group known as ISIS-K, like al-Qaeda, which plotted the 9/11 terror attacks from Afghanistan, also has designs on striking targets in Western nations, said the U.S. intelligence official, who is not authorized to speak publicly.
ISIS-K has hundreds of fighters and has shown increasing effectiveness in its tactics and recruiting in Afghanistan, said Sen. Jack Reed, D-R.I.), the ranking member of the Armed Services Committee who recently visited Afghanistan.
"It's growing in sophistication and numbers," Reed said.
The making of an American terroristHoda Muthana joined ISIS. Now she can’t come back
ISIS bride:Should Hoda Muthana be allowed to return from ISIS for trial in the U.S.? Trump says no.
Inspiring, financing and directing attacks abroad is a key goal. A chief worry: a terrorist recruit, for example, driving a truck through a crowd in the United States, the intelligence official said, citing the type of assault the group aspires to.
The K in ISIS-K stands for Khorasan, the Islamic State's affiliate in Pakistan and Afghanistan, where U.S.-led forces have fought Taliban and al Qaeda militants since 2001. About 14,000 U.S. troops remain in Afghanistan, half of them assigned to counter-terrorism missions, including combating ISIS-K militants.
About 2,400 U.S. troops have been killed in Afghanistan. More than 140,000 Afghan troops, militants and civilians have died in the fight, according to a study by Brown University.
In the last three years, ISIS-K has been emboldened by success in Afghanistan, said the senior intelligence official.
For instance, it mounted six major attacks in the Afghan capital of Kabul in 2016. That grew to 18 attacks in 2017 and 24 in 2018, the official said. The group is on pace to match or exceed that total this year.
ISIS-K has sought recruits among disaffected college graduates in Kabul, the official said. Doing so allows them to tap into their expertise gained in school and their ability to obtain visas and travel the world as terrorist operatives.
U.S.-led counter-terrorism strikes and law enforcement efforts have prevented ISIS-K from attacking targets in the United States, the official said. Gen. Joseph Votel, the recently retired commander of U.S. Central Command, said the group was “not reconcilable” and required eradication.
Preventing 'lone wolf' attacks:Why a seemingly unplanned terrorist attack in Maryland is the hardest kind to prevent
'An unnecessary, dangerous attempt':Trump vetoes resolution to end US support in Yemen
To that end, U.S.-led airstrikes have pounded ISIS-K strongholds in Afghanistan's Nangarhar province, most notably the usein 2017 of the largest conventional bomb in the U.S. arsenal, the Massive Ordnance Air Blast, also known as the Mother of All Bombs. The explosion killed an estimated 96 ISIS-K fighters.
The group, however, has shown its resilience matched by toughness and brutality.
ISIS-K has lured the hardest of the hard core, he said. Afghanistan allows them the chance to kill their top targets: western troops, a corrupt local government and Taliban fighters who are not sufficiently committed to their cause. Afghanistan's harsh terrain and lack of governance is an ideal environment to train fighters to shoot and communicate, the intelligence official said.
Want news from USA TODAY on WhatsApp?Click this link on your mobile device to get started
The group considers the Taliban, whose harsh rule of Afghanistan ended in 2001 and has mounted an 18-year insurgency, to be too lax in its interpretation of Islam, the official said.
ISIS-K fights the Taliban daily and has seized territory from it. ISIS-K fighters decapitated a local imam, sympathetic but insufficiently devout, and put his head on a pike as a warning to villagers, the official said.
As evidence of their commitment, the official pointed to intelligence gathered over the winter that showed that ISIS-K fighters stranded in mountain passes surviving on a dwindling supply of pine nuts. They preferred starving to profiting from the lucrative trade in opium, he said.


Title: ISIS: US military allegedly promoting ISIS in Afghanistan
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Java Programming with ChatGPT: Learn using Generative AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Basics of Generative AI : Unveiling Tomorrow's Innovations
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Generative AI for Dynamic Java Web Applications with ChatGPT
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Mastering C++ Fundamentals with Generative AI: A Hands-On
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Master in Python Language Quickly Using the ChatGPT Open AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Zero to Hero in Microsoft Excel: Complete Excel guide 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Astrology
Vastu Shastra Course
By - Sachenkumar Rai, Vastu Shashtri
Data Science
SQL for Data Science along with Data Analytics and Data Visualization
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Web Development
A Comprehensive ASP.NET Core MVC 6 Project Guide for 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Mastering Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and 365
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Marketing
Digital marketing - Wordpress Website Development
By - Shraddha Somani, Digital Marketing Trainer, Consultant, Strategiest and Subject Matter expert
Web Development
Mastering Full Stack Development: From Frontend to Backend Excellence
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Finance
Financial Literacy i.e Lets Crack the Billionaire Code
By - CA Rahul Gupta, CA with 10+ years of domain experience, trainer
Leadership
Business Storytelling Masterclass
By - Ameen Haque, Founder of Storywallahs
Marketing
Future of Marketing & Branding Masterclass
By - Dr. David Aaker, Professor at Haas School of Business
HR
Human Potential and the Future of Employment
By - Lynda Gratton, Co-chair of the World Economic Forum Council on Work, Wages and Job Creation, Professor of Management Practice
Strategy
ESG and Business Sustainability Strategy
By - Vipul Arora, Partner, ESG & Climate Solutions at Sattva Consulting Author I Speaker I Thought Leader
Finance
Financial Reporting and Analytics
By - Dr. C.P. Gupta, Professor: Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi
(Catch all theBusiness News,Breaking News,Budget 2024Events andLatest NewsUpdates onThe Economic Times.)
Subscribe toThe Economic Times Primeand read theET ePaperonline.
(Catch all theBusiness News,Breaking News,Budget 2024Events andLatest NewsUpdates onThe Economic Times.)
Subscribe toThe Economic Times Primeand read theET ePaperonline.

Transformers: Rise of the Beasts…err stocks, and how BHEL, GE et al. went high voltage
How an elusive ‘bagwati’ is driving gold-beating returns and a quiet shift away from Louis Vuitton
Meta AI has joined the chat, with 500 million Indian users wishing ‘good morning’ in style
How should Coca-Cola, Pepsi counter Reliance and Isha Ambani’s move to differentiate through pricing?
RBI should ease market rules as macros turn for good
WFH@Nvidia. It’s partial at Microsoft amid huge M-cap. TCS, with flat margins, wants staff in office.
'So sorry I failed you': Trump gunman wrote chilling letter
'Success of humanity can’t be found on battlefield'
'A dozen eggs will cost you around $4...'
182 killed, over 700 injured in Israeli strikes: Lebanon
'I don't think you're deserving of four stars…'
'Co-develop, co-design & co-produce in India for world'
'We do not seek war, nor do we desire it...'
'Laapataa Ladies' to compete for Best Intl Feature at Oscars
IDF tells Lebanese to 'move away' from Hezbollah sites
'PM Modi pushed us to make in India…': Google CEO
Hot on Web
In Case you missed it
Top Searched Companies
Top Calculators
Top Prime Articles
Top Slideshow
Top Commodities
Private Companies
Top Story Listing
Top Definitions
Most Searched IFSC Codes
Latest News
Follow us on:
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Reason for reporting:
Your Reason has been Reported to the admin.
Log In/Connect with:
Will be displayed
Will not be displayed
Will be displayed
Worry not. You’re just a step away.
It seems like you're already an ETPrime member with
Login using your ET Prime credentials to enjoy all member benefits
Log out of your current logged-in accountand log in again using your ET Prime credentials  to enjoy all member benefits.

To read full story, subscribe to ET Prime
₹34 per week
Billed annually at₹2499₹1749
Super Saver Sale - Flat 30% Off
On ET Prime Membership
Offer Exclusively For You
Save up to Rs. 700/-
ON ET PRIME MEMBERSHIP
Offer Exclusively For You
Get 1 Year Free
With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership
Offer Exclusively For You
Get 1 Year Free
With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership
Offer Exclusively For You
Get Flat 40% Off
Then  ₹ 1749 for 1 year
Offer Exclusively For You
ET Prime at ₹ 49 for 1 month
Then  ₹ 1749 for 1 year
Market Savvy Offer
Get flat 20% off on ETPrime




90 Days Prime access worth Rs999 unlocked for you
Exclusive Economic Times Stories, Editorials & Expert opinionacross 20+ sectors
Stock analysis. Market Research. Industry Trendson 4000+ Stocks
​Get1 Year Complimentary Subscription of TOI+worth Rs.799/-​
Stories you might be interested in

Title: Business News Today: Read Latest Business news, India Business News Live, Share Market & Economy News | The Economic Times
Get only relevant updates on WhatsApp. No Spam.
Learn from the top business gurus.
September 23
India's corporate travel sector, valued at over USD 10.6 billion, is projected to grow at a 10.1% CAGR to USD 20.8 billion by FY30. This gro...
India's electric two-wheeler market is booming, but exports remain minimal. Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari sees potential for India ...
Monthly instalment schemes by jewellers are sustaining gold demand despite high prices. Tanishq, Reliance Jewels, and Senco Gold have seen s...
Vodafone Idea has been directed to pay Rs 50,000 in compensation to a senior citizen for mental harassment due to abrupt disconnection of hi...
Quick commerce is driving growth in grocery shopping, with 31% of Indian shoppers using it for core needs and 39% for top-ups, according to ...
The expo and the conference combined represent the most sought-after event of the Oil & Gas industry that is held every year to bring the in...
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Java Programming with ChatGPT: Learn using Generative AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Basics of Generative AI : Unveiling Tomorrow's Innovations
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Generative AI for Dynamic Java Web Applications with ChatGPT
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Mastering C++ Fundamentals with Generative AI: A Hands-On
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Master in Python Language Quickly Using the ChatGPT Open AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Zero to Hero in Microsoft Excel: Complete Excel guide 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Stock Trading
Market 101: An Insight into Trendlines and Momentum
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Markets 102: Mastering Sentiment Indicators for Swing and Positional Trading
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Market 103: Mastering Trends with RMI and Techno-Funda Insights
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Market 104: Options Trading: Kickstart Your F&O Adventure
By - Saketh R, Founder- QuickAlpha, Full Time Options Trader
Astrology
Vastu Shastra Course
By - Sachenkumar Rai, Vastu Shashtri
Data Science
SQL for Data Science along with Data Analytics and Data Visualization
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Web Development
A Comprehensive ASP.NET Core MVC 6 Project Guide for 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Stock Trading
ROC Made Easy: Master Course for ROC Stock Indicator
By - Souradeep Dey, Equity and Commodity Trader, Trainer
Stock Trading
RSI Made Easy: RSI Trading Course
By - Souradeep Dey, Equity and Commodity Trader, Trainer
Stock Trading
Technical Analysis for Everyone - Technical Analysis Course
By - Abhijit Paul, Technical Research Head, Fund Manager- ICICI Securities
Office Productivity
Mastering Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and 365
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Marketing
Digital marketing - Wordpress Website Development
By - Shraddha Somani, Digital Marketing Trainer, Consultant, Strategiest and Subject Matter expert
Web Development
Mastering Full Stack Development: From Frontend to Backend Excellence
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Finance
Financial Literacy i.e Lets Crack the Billionaire Code
By - CA Rahul Gupta, CA with 10+ years of domain experience, trainer
Stock Trading
Introduction to Technical Analysis & Candlestick Theory
By - Dinesh Nagpal, Full Time Trader, Ichimoku & Trading Psychology Expert
Leadership
Business Storytelling Masterclass
By - Ameen Haque, Founder of Storywallahs
Marketing
Future of Marketing & Branding Masterclass
By - Dr. David Aaker, Professor at Haas School of Business
HR
Human Potential and the Future of Employment
By - Lynda Gratton, Co-chair of the World Economic Forum Council on Work, Wages and Job Creation, Professor of Management Practice
Strategy
ESG and Business Sustainability Strategy
By - Vipul Arora, Partner, ESG & Climate Solutions at Sattva Consulting Author I Speaker I Thought Leader
Stock Trading
Options Trading Course For Beginners
By - Chetan Panchamia, Options Trader
Finance
Financial Reporting and Analytics
By - Dr. C.P. Gupta, Professor: Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi
Stock Trading
Options Scalping Made Easy
By - Sivakumar Jayachandran, Ace Scalper
Stock Trading
Futures Trading Made Easy: Future & Options Trading Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Markets Made Easy
By - elearnmarkets, Financial Education by StockEdge
Stock Trading
Renko Chart Patterns Made Easy
By - Kaushik Akiwatkar, Derivative Trader and Investor
Stock Trading
Options Trading Made Easy: Options Trading Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Investing Made Easy: Beginner's Stock Market Investment Course
By - elearnmarkets, Financial Education by StockEdge
Stock Trading
Macroeconomics Made Easy: Online Certification Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Valuation Made Easy
By - Rounak Gouti, Investment commentary writer
Tuesday, 24 Sep, 2024
Vodafone Idea (Vi) has said it’s now up to the government to come up with a mechanism to offer financial relief to the company, after the Supreme Court’s recent rejection of the telco’s curative petition seeking a re-computation of its adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues.
India’s aspiration to be a $7-trillion economy by the end of the decade can be achieved as a “strong” Prime Minister Narendra Modi rolls out the digital and physical infrastructure that’s drawing multinationals involved in manufacturing advanced products and services, said Jamie Dimon, chairman and CEO, JPMorgan.
This is India’s moment and the country should seize it, Nvidia chief executive Jensen Huang said after a roundtable in New York between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and leading technology industry CEOs. Sundar Pichai, the CEO of Google and its parent Alphabet, said the Prime Minister has a clear vision of the opportunity that artificial intelligence will create, and is challenging top companies to do more in India.
Securing a US student visa is just the beginning for international students. Maintaining it is crucial, as violations like prolonged absence, unauthorized transfer, or fraudulent activities can lead to revocation. Immediate steps include understanding the reason, contacting university services, reapplying or appealing, and seeking legal assistance if necessary.
High net worth Indians are using corporate credit cards for personal expenses during overseas travels to avoid breaching the $250,000 annual limit on foreign remittance. The government may soon implement rules to include international credit card spends under this limit, but distinguishing personal from business expenses remains challenging.
Prodigy Finance has announced a $5,000 scholarship for students pursuing higher education abroad for the Spring 2025 intake. Applications open in September 2024 and close on September 30, 2024. Eligible candidates must be accepted into a Prodigy Finance-supported program and demonstrate academic excellence and community commitment.
Rajinikanth to Mahesh Babu: South Stars Steal The Spotlight at Anant Ambani's Wedding
Explore Goa In The Rains: 10 Must-Do Activities, Places To Visit
Sonakshi Sinha wedding photos out: Actress marries Zaheer Iqbal in civil ceremony
How Four Words from Chiranjeevi Saved Pawan Kalyan's Life
​Mushrooms Can Lower Risk Of A Cancer Diagnosis​​​
What To Eat, What To Avoid During Pregnancy? Follow This ICMR Guide
Want To Live Longer? Watch Your Salt Intake, Advises ICMR
How vegans can get enough protein? What ICMR says
Balakrishna's 5 Controversies. Latest: Actress Anjali Incident
Why These Two Rs 10 Notes Fetched Over Rs 12 Lakhs At Auction?
Magnificent Mango: 5 Beauty Secrets Of This Summer Delight
​Radhika Merchant’s Space Suit Designer For Ambani Pre-Wedding Bash, Has Worked With Jennifer Lopez & Karlie Kloss!​
​Flax Seeds Can Aid In Weight Loss, Improve Gut Heath: Here’s The Best Time To Consume Them​
​NASA Finds 126 Alien Planets! Does This Mean There’s Extraterrestrial Life?​
You Can Enjoy This 5-Day Cruise For Just Rs 5,000. Thanks To Indian Govt
Scandals that destroyed Bollywood celebs' career
​From Vedavid To Vamika, 6 Bollywood Babies With Unique Names​
Blockout 2024: From Taylor Swift To Alia Bhatt, Celebs Are Being Boycotted Online
Gainers & Losers: Vedanta, IEX among 7 stocks in limelight on Tuesday
SIPs in 5 small cap mutual funds multiplied wealth by 100x in 15 years
9 famous street food to try when in Gujarat
8 yoga poses to reduce stubborn waist fat
8 health benefits of having ghee coffee in the morning
9 excellent immunity boosting food for kids
9 chia seeds benefits for skin and hair
These 4 F&O stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest
These 4 stocks closed above VWAP on September 23
These 3 stocks showed RSI Trending up on September 23
Bullish Momentum: These 3 stocks with White Marubozu Pattern on September 23
These 4 stocks closed below VWAP on September 23
At multi-year highs: These 6 stocks witnessed 5-year swing high breakouts
Positive Breakout: ACC among 4 stocks crossed their 200 DMAs
Chia Seeds: Miracle Superfood Or Overhyped Trend
Who Has Chris Martin Dated? A Look At Coldplay Singer's Famous Girlfriends
Gainers & Losers: Vodafone Idea, Indus Towers among 6 stocks in limelight on Monday
7 immunity boosting drinks for weather change
7 high-protein dishes made with chickpeas
7 house plants best suited for bathroom
7 effective morning exercises to lose weight
Gold price up more than 23% in one year; check latest price of gold
7 common mistakes you are doing to lose weight
7 health benefits of drinking haldi doodh everyday at night
7 homemade drinks to boost energy
Tech Mahindra among 3 stocks showing RSI trending up
Cochin Shipyard among 5 stocks with White Marubozu Pattern
These 5 F&O stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest
Finolex Industries and 3 other stocks close below VWAP
Vodafone Idea and 3 other stocks closed above VWAP
Check out these iconic Bonedi Bari Durga Puja in Kolkata
Why your EPF claim may get rejected: Here are 11 reasons
What DonaldTrump promised to accomplish on day one as president
Cancer patients: Tips to go through chemotherapy
Direct Tax Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme 2024: CBDT notifies these rules, forms from October 1, 2024
Oscars 2025: 'Laapataa Ladies' picked as India's entry; how Kiran Rao reacted, top film contenders and other details
India’s first Mpox clade 1 case in Kerala: Symptoms, treatment, risk factors, travel advices and other details
Want to visit the equator? Countries to consider and your budget guide from India
Top 5 flexi-cap funds with up to 28% returns in 3 yrs
Kamala Harris isn't alone! 5 Indian politicians who love to cook and eat
Hot on Web
In Case you missed it
Top Calculators
Top Prime Articles
Top Performing MF
Top Story Listing
Top Commodities
Top Definitions
Top Slideshow
Latest News
Follow us on:

Title: Navistar to upgrade Afghan National Security Forces' MTV fleet - Army Technology
Navistar Defense has been awarded an urgent delivery contract to upgrade the edium tactical vehicles (MTV) fleet of the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF).
Navistar Defense has been awarded an urgent delivery contract to upgrade the edium tactical vehicles (MTV) fleet of the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF).
Awarded by the US Army Tank Automotive Command Lifecycle Management Command (TACOM LCMC), the $23m deal covers replacement of the Afghan National Army (ANA) and Afghan National Police (ANP) vehicle’s existing 205 commercial cabs with specially designed armoured cabs.
The gold standard of business intelligence.
Find out more
Accomplished through re-use of the MTV’s original components, the cost-efficient upgrade is designed to safeguard ANA and ANP personnel from ballistic and blast threats during operations.
Navistar Defense president Archie Massicotte said the company would continue to support the ANSF’s MTV fleet, and deliver its commitments to the US military and allies on the programme.
"This order reflects Navistar’s strong partnership with the US Department of Defense in providing high-quality vehicles on very aggressive schedules in support of protecting the soldier on the ground," Massicotte added.
Additional contract responsibility includes modernisation of additional vehicle elements for enhanced survivability to provide ANSF with the capability to carry out route clearance operations with mine roller applications.
Access the most comprehensive Company Profiles
            on the market, powered by GlobalData. Save hours of research. Gain competitive edge.
Your download email will arrive shortly
We are confident about the
                        unique
                        quality of our Company Profiles. However, we want you to make the most
                        beneficial
                        decision for your business, so we offer a free sample that you can download by
                        submitting the below form
Based on the Navistar International WorkStar platform, the MTV is a high-mobility vehicle currently used in Afghanistan for general troop transport, water tankers, fuel trucks and recovery, as well as petroleum, oil and lubricant (POL) vehicles and cargo trucks.
Around 9,000 MTVs have been delivered by the company to the ANA and ANP since 2004, in addition to another 14,000 vehicles to Canada, Israel, Iraq, Jordan, Taiwan and other militaries worldwide.
Modernisation work is scheduled to be carried out at the company’s facility in West Point, Mississippi, US, with deliveries scheduled to start in April and finish in July.
Image: The water tankers variants of Navistar Medium Tactical Vehicles. Photo: © 2013 Navistar, Inc.

The gold standard of business intelligence.
Find out more
Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.
Give your business an edge with our leading industry insights.

Global Defence Technology : Army Technology Focus (monthly)
Thematic Take (monthly)
I consent to Verdict Media Limited collecting my details provided via this form in accordance withPrivacy Policy
View all newslettersfrom across the GlobalData Media network.
The leading site for news and procurement in the defence industry
Powered by
© Verdict Media Limited 2024

Title: Peace Talks with Afghan Taliban and its Implications for Pakistan - Jamestown
April 5, 2019 06:26 PMAge: 5 years
Negotiations leading toward a peaceful solution for a longstanding politically violent conflict is generally the desire of neighboring nations. In the recent past, several terrorist campaigns have ended after rounds of talks resulting in peaceful solutions in countries such as Algeria, Ireland, Colombia, Peru and others. However, peace talks resulting in lasting negotiated settlements are particularly elusive with Islamist terrorist groups. Islamist terrorist groups are typically absolutist and Manichean in their approach and mostly reluctant to hold peace talks with the states through mediators and at times only do that under conditions suitable to their ideological causes or when facing imminent military defeat.
In the case of the Afghan Taliban, the situation is much more complex. There have been rounds of peace talks with the group over the last 15 years, yielding more or less no results. Long campaigns of political violence detrimentally affect countries in close proximity and such is the case for Afghanistan’s eastern neighbor, Pakistan. Whether peace is attained in Afghanistan or not, the results will likely have serious implications for Pakistan.
CurrentState of Affairs
Peace talks appear to be faltering and there is no military solution in sight. There are 14,000 U.S. troops (down from 100,000 in 2014) plus an additional 8,000 NATO troops still in Afghanistan. U.S. fatalities stand at around 2,500 with 20,000 injuries during the last 17 years of war, and the cost of war in Afghanistan is estimated to be $1 trillion (Al-Jazeera, February 14). Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) still appear to be unprepared, ill-trained, and unlikely to defeat the Islamist insurgents in the near future. In 2018, Afghanistan experienced the highest number of casualties in a single year since 2009 (UNAMA, February 24).
The current state of affairs in Afghanistan does not present a rosy picture. The growing Taliban violence has resulted in massive ANSF casualties and the Taliban controls more territory than at any time since 2001, despite Afghan Taliban-U.S. peace talks recently held in Doha, Qatar. President Donald Trump’s December 2018 announcement of his desire to withdraw troops indicates a major upcoming change in U.S. foreign policy. For some time, it seemed that peace talks were becoming more viable as enthusiastic efforts were made by Zalmay Khalilzad, a seasoned American diplomat and expert negotiator of Afghan descent. But as of March, no concrete conclusion could be drawn.
Implications for Pakistan
Several possible scenarios could be analyzed amid recent peace talks in Afghanistan. Each has significant implications for Pakistan, some positive and some negative.
Despite significant challenges ahead, there is a possibility that peace could be achieved after successful rounds of talks with the Afghan Taliban, resulting in the withdrawal of U.S. and NATO troops from Afghanistan in 2020.
A strong possibility connected to this scenario is the relieving of pressure U.S. forces (through drone strikes and Special Operations) have placed on anti-Pakistan terrorist groups such as Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) and Islamic State-Khorasan—who are hiding in the eastern provinces of Afghanistan. A number of TTP commanders such as Mullah Fazalullah and others have been killed by U.S. strikes and other operations and, similarly, IS-K’s first four Emirs were killed by U.S. forces based in Afghanistan (Dawn, June 23, 2018;NATO, April 15, 2018).
The withdrawal could easily result in the Afghan Taliban, or significant factions of it, breaching the agreement and launching a campaign against the new Afghan regime—potentially causing another collapse of the government. Such a scenario would likely lead to the outbreak of civil war, and chaos reminiscent of what happened in 1990 after the withdrawal of Soviet troops following the Geneva accord signed in 1989. For Pakistan, despite its alleged ties to the Afghan Taliban, this would be a worst-case scenario as it would likely spark an increase of violence in neighboring provinces of Pakistan, the exodus of refugees into Pakistan, massacres, human and women rights violations, all while bolstering al-Qaeda and other foreign Islamist terrorists. It is not unreasonable to consider a scenario in which Afghanistan returns to being a base of operations for international terrorism, including anti-Pakistan groups, as it was before the U.S. invasion in October 2001.
In a less likely scenario, Khalilzad succeeds and there is a peaceful settlement in Afghanistan, the reintegration of the Afghan Taliban into wider society, elections, and a new government, resulting in a cessation of violence and the end of safe havens for foreign terrorist groups in Afghanistan. This is a situation that policymakers in Pakistan would love to capitalize on in order to strengthen its own dilapidated economy and rebuild peace.
The chances of the conflict status quo continuing in Afghanistan are likely and that does not suit neighboring Pakistan’s new ambitions. If fighting continues and Afghan Taliban numbers keep rising (currently estimated to be around 50-60,000), the rural areas would eventually fall to Taliban control, leaving behind only urban centers in the Afghan government’s hands. This situation would further weaken the Afghan government and facilitate the rise of militias in every corner of Afghanistan, a situation highly unfavorable for Pakistan.
Another issue apart from these scenarios is that that the success or perceived success of the Afghan Taliban would create a sense of victory among Pakistani Islamist groups, which would be a morale-boost for Islamist terrorist groups operating in Pakistan. Most of the Pakistani Islamist terrorist groups consider the Afghan Taliban to be a role model regime and would likely adopt similar tactics in the event of the Taliban’s success.
Conclusion
The Afghan Taliban are Islamist by virtue of their adherence to the ultra-orthodox Deobandi sect of Islam and are known for their stubborn and inflexible attitudes. They also remain close to al-Qaeda and have never condemned its violence. Hence, it would be much harder for mediators to adjust to their hardline approaches and somehow manage to drive them towards a fulsome, peaceful solution.
In its current state of economic turmoil, Pakistan would benefit from the foreign investments that peace in Afghanistan would encourage. An unstable Afghanistan would further damage Pakistan’s repute. This is perhaps one reason Pakistani policymakers are surprisingly keen to play their part in bringing the Afghan Taliban to peace talks and finding a possible solution for ending this long war. Pakistan needs to play its role for its own sake and efforts must continue for a negotiated settlement in Afghanistan, though that is not in sight at the moment.
About the Event Join us Thursday, July 11, in...MORE
Jamestown Senior Fellow Olevs Nikers was recently interviewed by French news outlet L’Express about the recent North Atlantic Treaty Organization Summit (NATO) in Washington DC...MORE
The “Baltic Interoperability Report” is the first publication of the Baltic Security Strategy Project (BSSP), the largest independent security study in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. For these three countries, which are challenged by variations in regional stability and security over the years, enhanced military interoperability has been and still...MORE
1310 L St. NW, Suite 810Washington DC, 20005
PHONE:202.483.8888FAX: 202.483.8337E-MAIL:pubs@jamestown.org

Title: ICC Refuses to Investigate Crimes in Afghanistan, including US Torture: An Unacceptable and Shameful Decision
(Paris, The Hague, Kabul, New York) In an appalling decision, the ICC Pre-Trial Chamber II decided not to grant the Prosecutor’s request to open an investigation into alleged crimes committed in Afghanistan and on the territory of other States Parties implicated in the U.S. torture program. Tens of thousands of victims in Afghanistan, along with victims of U.S. torture, had urged the ICC to authorize the investigation.
Despite finding that requirements were met as regards both jurisdiction and admissibility, the Pre-Trial judges decided that authorizing an investigation would not serve “the interests of justice”, due to “subsequent changes within the relevant political landscape both in Afghanistan and in key States (both parties and non-parties to the [ICC] Statute),” “the complexity and volatility of the political climate…, mak[ing] it extremely difficult to gauge the prospects of securing meaningful cooperation from relevant authorities”, along with a lack of possibility of preserving evidence for crimes committed in the early 2000s. The three judges added that “in light of the limited amount of… resources, [authorizing the investigation] will go to the detriment of other scenarios (be it preliminary examinations, investigations or cases) which appear to have a more realistic prospects to lead to trials.”[1]The Pre-Trial statements are clear references to the harsh campaign waged by the Trump administration against the Court as well as to the lack of support – including financial – given to the Court to carry out its mission to combat impunity.
“We condemn the ICC’s shocking decision, which is based on a deeply flawed reasoning. The ICC was created precisely to overcome the very challenges that made national investigations impossible – it is unacceptable that these challenges are now invoked by the Court to deny justice to the victims. It is a dark day for justice.”
“We condemn the ICC’s shocking decision, which is based on a deeply flawed reasoning. The ICC was created precisely to overcome the very challenges that made national investigations impossible – it is unacceptable that these challenges are now invoked by the Court to deny justice to the victims. It is a dark day for justice.”
“After 11 years of preliminary examination by the Office of the Prosecutor, the judges took more than a year to consider the gravity of the crimes and the Court’s jurisdiction. After this unusually long period, the ICC decided today to reject Fatou Bensouda’s request. Not because the crimes were not committed, but for practical and political reasons. The thousands of victims, of violent extremists and of both national and international forces, who participated in this process and who were overwhelmingly in favour of an investigation, are not being acknowledged. The ICC has turned its back on them.”
“After 11 years of preliminary examination by the Office of the Prosecutor, the judges took more than a year to consider the gravity of the crimes and the Court’s jurisdiction. After this unusually long period, the ICC decided today to reject Fatou Bensouda’s request. Not because the crimes were not committed, but for practical and political reasons. The thousands of victims, of violent extremists and of both national and international forces, who participated in this process and who were overwhelmingly in favour of an investigation, are not being acknowledged. The ICC has turned its back on them.”
“With its decision today, the International Criminal Court sends a dangerous message: that bullying wins and that the powerful won’t be held to account. In bowing to the pressure campaign of the Trump administration, the Pre-Trial Chamber – and the States Parties who have failed to adequately resource and support the Court – accepts impunity. But the victims of the powerful will not stop in their efforts to make true the adage that no one is above the law.”
“With its decision today, the International Criminal Court sends a dangerous message: that bullying wins and that the powerful won’t be held to account. In bowing to the pressure campaign of the Trump administration, the Pre-Trial Chamber – and the States Parties who have failed to adequately resource and support the Court – accepts impunity. But the victims of the powerful will not stop in their efforts to make true the adage that no one is above the law.”
On 20 November 2017, ICC Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda submitted her request to the ICC Pre-Trial Chamber III to open an investigation into the situation in Afghanistan on the following charges.The Office of the Prosecutor (“OTP”) requested the authorization of the ICC Pre-trial Chamber judges to open an investigation into three sets of crimes on the territory of Afghanistan:–(1)crimes against humanity and war crimes, including murder, imprisonment or other severe deprivation of physical liberty, persecution on political and gender grounds, and intentionally directing attacks at civilians, humanitarian personnel and/or protected objects, and conscription of children under the age of 15by the Taliban and affiliated armed groups;–(2)war crimes, including torture, cruel treatment, outrages upon personal dignity, and sexual violenceby Afghan government forces, namely members of the ANSF; and–(3)war crimescommittedby U.S. armed forces and members of the CIAnot only on the territory of Afghanistan, but also by U.S. actors operating in secret detention facilities operated by the CIA in Poland, Romania, and Lithuania since 1 July 2002, principally focusing on the period of 2003-2004.
Tens of thousands of victims had participated in the proceedings to support the Prosecutor’s request to open an investigation on the situation in Afghanistan, as serving the interest of justice in Afghanistan.
The United States is not a State Party to the ICC Statute. On 10 September 2018, John Bolton, the US national security adviser,  threatened the ICC with sanctions if an investigation was opened into alleged war crimes committed by American nationals in Afghanistan, declaring “the United States will use any means necessary to protect our citizens and those of our allies from unjust prosecution by this illegitimate court”. He added that the Trump administration would “fight back” and impose sanctions if the Court formally proceeded with opening an investigation into alleged war crimes committed by US military and intelligence staff during the war in Afghanistan or pursued any investigation into Israel or other US allies.
As a first concrete step, on 15 March 2019, the US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo announced the U.S. will revoke or deny visas to members of the International Criminal Court involved in investigating the actions of US troops in Afghanistan or other countries, and was prepared to take further steps, including economic sanctions. On 4 April 2019, the United States revoked the visa of the ICC Prosecutor.
[1]See ICC Pre-Trial Chamber II “Decision pursurant to Article 15 of the Rome Statute on the Authorisation of an Inevstigation into the Situation in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan”, 12 April 2019:https://www.icc-cpi.int/CourtRecords/CR2019_02068.PDF
FIDHArmanshahr/OPEN ASIACCR - Center for Constitutional Rights

Title: ICC rejects Afghanistan war crimes probe  – DW – 04/12/2019
The International Criminal Court said that despite "a reasonable basis" to consider war crimes committed in Afghanistan, there was little chance of a successful prosecution. Rights group Amnesty criticized the decision.
International Criminal Court (ICC) judges on Friday rejected a request by the court's chief prosecutor to open an investigation into possible war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in Afghanistan, including alleged violations by US forces.
The Hague-based judges unanimously ruled that an investigation into alleged crimes "would not serve the interests of justice."
Chief Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda in 2017 asked judges to open a formal investigationinto alleged war crimes committed by the Taliban, the Haqqani network, Afghan forces, the US military and the CIA.
Read more:How does the International Criminal Court answer criticisms that it is illegitimate?
The judges found that there was "a reasonable basis to consider that crimes within the ICC jurisdiction have been committed in Afghanistan and that potential cases would be admissible before the Court," according to a press release.
The allegations against the United States relate to torturing Taliban and al-Qaida prisoners in Afghanistan and at secret CIA detention facilities.
ICC prosecutors have also blamed the Taliban for some 17,000 civilian deaths from 2007 to December 2015, including "numerous attacks" on schools, hospitals and mosques. They also alleged that Afghan security forces have tortured prisoners at detention centers.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
US piles pressure on ICC
The United States has not ratified the ICC's Rome Statute, meaning any judicial proceedings were unlikely to lead to the arrest of CIA officers or US military personnel. However, Americans alleged to be involved in war crimes could have been subject to international arrest warrants. Afghanistan is a member of the ICC.
The court decision comes afterUS Secretary of State Mike Pompeo last month threatenedto sanction and revoke the visas of ICC staff investigating possible US war crimes in Afghanistan.Bensouda's US visa already was revokedthis month.
Limited chances of successful prosecution
In making the decision not to move forward with the probe, ICC judges noted that "the lack of cooperation that the Prosecutor has received and which is likely to grow scarcer should an investigation be authorized hampering the chances of successful investigation and prosecution."
The judges also took into account the time elapsed since the ICC's preliminary examination was opened in 2006, thealtered political situation in Afghanistansince then, and the need for the court to prioritize cases that have a better chance of succeeding given its limited resources.
"Notwithstanding the fact all the relevant requirements are met as regards both jurisdiction and admissibility, the current circumstances of the situation in Afghanistan are such as to make the prospects for a successful investigation and prosecution extremely limited," the court said.
Abandoning victims
Amnesty International said the court's decision marked "a shocking abandonment of victims and will further weaken the court's credibility."
"Coming so closely on the heels of a series of unhinged attacks by senior US officials, and following long and unexplainable delays up to this point, the decision ultimately will be seen as a craven capitulation to Washington's bullying and threats," said Biraj Patnaik, South Asia director at Amnesty International.
Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.


Title: ICC rejects Afghanistan war crimes probe  – DW – 04/12/2019
The International Criminal Court said that despite "a reasonable basis" to consider war crimes committed in Afghanistan, there was little chance of a successful prosecution. Rights group Amnesty criticized the decision.
International Criminal Court (ICC) judges on Friday rejected a request by the court's chief prosecutor to open an investigation into possible war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in Afghanistan, including alleged violations by US forces.
The Hague-based judges unanimously ruled that an investigation into alleged crimes "would not serve the interests of justice."
Chief Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda in 2017 asked judges to open a formal investigationinto alleged war crimes committed by the Taliban, the Haqqani network, Afghan forces, the US military and the CIA.
Read more:How does the International Criminal Court answer criticisms that it is illegitimate?
The judges found that there was "a reasonable basis to consider that crimes within the ICC jurisdiction have been committed in Afghanistan and that potential cases would be admissible before the Court," according to a press release.
The allegations against the United States relate to torturing Taliban and al-Qaida prisoners in Afghanistan and at secret CIA detention facilities.
ICC prosecutors have also blamed the Taliban for some 17,000 civilian deaths from 2007 to December 2015, including "numerous attacks" on schools, hospitals and mosques. They also alleged that Afghan security forces have tortured prisoners at detention centers.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
US piles pressure on ICC
The United States has not ratified the ICC's Rome Statute, meaning any judicial proceedings were unlikely to lead to the arrest of CIA officers or US military personnel. However, Americans alleged to be involved in war crimes could have been subject to international arrest warrants. Afghanistan is a member of the ICC.
The court decision comes afterUS Secretary of State Mike Pompeo last month threatenedto sanction and revoke the visas of ICC staff investigating possible US war crimes in Afghanistan.Bensouda's US visa already was revokedthis month.
Limited chances of successful prosecution
In making the decision not to move forward with the probe, ICC judges noted that "the lack of cooperation that the Prosecutor has received and which is likely to grow scarcer should an investigation be authorized hampering the chances of successful investigation and prosecution."
The judges also took into account the time elapsed since the ICC's preliminary examination was opened in 2006, thealtered political situation in Afghanistansince then, and the need for the court to prioritize cases that have a better chance of succeeding given its limited resources.
"Notwithstanding the fact all the relevant requirements are met as regards both jurisdiction and admissibility, the current circumstances of the situation in Afghanistan are such as to make the prospects for a successful investigation and prosecution extremely limited," the court said.
Abandoning victims
Amnesty International said the court's decision marked "a shocking abandonment of victims and will further weaken the court's credibility."
"Coming so closely on the heels of a series of unhinged attacks by senior US officials, and following long and unexplainable delays up to this point, the decision ultimately will be seen as a craven capitulation to Washington's bullying and threats," said Biraj Patnaik, South Asia director at Amnesty International.
Each evening at 1830 UTC, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: 
4 Haqqani militants killed in airstrike in Afghanistan - Xinhua | English.news.cn

GARDEZ, Afghanistan, April 12 (Xinhua) -- At least four Haqqani militants were killed in an airstrike in Afghanistan's eastern Paktia province on Friday, according to a statement issued by the provincial government.
"Based on a confirmed tip-off, the airstrike was launched on outskirts of provincial capital Gardez on Friday morning. The sortie killed four militants of Haqqani terrorist group," the statement said.
Security forces and civilians have not suffered any damage in the strike which was launched by the NATO-led coalition forces in coordination with Afghan security forces, according to the statement.
A number of heavy and light weapons and ammunition were also destroyed in the raid, said the statement.
Haqqani network, a Taliban-linked militant group, mostly operates in eastern provinces and capital Kabul, and has been responsible for high-profile attacks on security forces.
The network, which was named as a terrorist group by the United States in 2012, has yet to make comments.
The Afghan security forces, backed by the NATO-led coalition troops, have increased ground and air offensives against militants within the past a few months as spring and summer known as the fighting season is drawing near in the country.
Earlier on Friday, the Taliban militant group has announced the launch of a yearly rebel offensive against Afghan and coalition forces codenamed al-Fath.
Xi meets with Myanmar's commander-in-chief of defense services
Xinhua photos of the day
Nature reserve in China's Jilin greets peak season for migrant birds to return to north
Scenery of Xijiang Qianhu Miao Village in China's Guizhou
Zhejiang's Jiande dedicated to developing tea industry
Aerial view of Gandan Temple in China's Tibet
View of Qingyan ancient town in Guiyang, SW China's Guizhou
In pics: blooming tulips in NW China's Gansu

Title:  Afghanistan- UN drops Taliban names from blacklist
ForgotUsernameorPassword

Date
(MENAFN- Afghanistan Times) AT News ReportKABUL: The United Nations has removed the names of senior
Taliban officials who are running negotiations with the US over peace in
Afghanistan, themilitantsconfirmed.Taliban Spokesman, Zabihullah Mujahid said Friday that the
names of 14 people who make the negotiating team have been removed from the UN
blacklist for nine months.'We have been promised that their names will be removed from
this list for ever,' Mujahid said.Taliban's co-founder Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar who is took
over the group'sPoliticaloffice based in Doha after being released from
Pakistan custody last year, is among those granted the UN tip, BBC reported.The Taliban have so far held five rounds of talks with the
United States envoy for Afghan peace, Zalmay Khalilzad, with the two sides
saying of progresses.The sixth round of negotiations between Khalilzad and
Taliban is expected to be held this month in Qatar.The name of Anas Haqqani, son of Jalaluddin Haqqani, founder
of Haqqani terrorist network was also in the list. Anas is currently in
government custody.Sources close to Taliban have said that the removal of
Taliban names was due to the US request. This move indicates that both the US
and Taliban try to marginalize Kabul government in peace talks.MENAFN1304201901690000ID1098383495
KABUL: The United Nations has removed the names of senior
Taliban officials who are running negotiations with the US over peace in
Afghanistan, themilitantsconfirmed.Taliban Spokesman, Zabihullah Mujahid said Friday that the
names of 14 people who make the negotiating team have been removed from the UN
blacklist for nine months.'We have been promised that their names will be removed from
this list for ever,' Mujahid said.Taliban's co-founder Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar who is took
over the group'sPoliticaloffice based in Doha after being released from
Pakistan custody last year, is among those granted the UN tip, BBC reported.The Taliban have so far held five rounds of talks with the
United States envoy for Afghan peace, Zalmay Khalilzad, with the two sides
saying of progresses.The sixth round of negotiations between Khalilzad and
Taliban is expected to be held this month in Qatar.The name of Anas Haqqani, son of Jalaluddin Haqqani, founder
of Haqqani terrorist network was also in the list. Anas is currently in
government custody.Sources close to Taliban have said that the removal of
Taliban names was due to the US request. This move indicates that both the US
and Taliban try to marginalize Kabul government in peace talks.MENAFN1304201901690000ID1098383495
KABUL: The United Nations has removed the names of senior
Taliban officials who are running negotiations with the US over peace in
Afghanistan, themilitantsconfirmed.
Taliban Spokesman, Zabihullah Mujahid said Friday that the
names of 14 people who make the negotiating team have been removed from the UN
blacklist for nine months.
'We have been promised that their names will be removed from
this list for ever,' Mujahid said.
Taliban's co-founder Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar who is took
over the group'sPoliticaloffice based in Doha after being released from
Pakistan custody last year, is among those granted the UN tip, BBC reported.
The Taliban have so far held five rounds of talks with the
United States envoy for Afghan peace, Zalmay Khalilzad, with the two sides
saying of progresses.
The sixth round of negotiations between Khalilzad and
Taliban is expected to be held this month in Qatar.
The name of Anas Haqqani, son of Jalaluddin Haqqani, founder
of Haqqani terrorist network was also in the list. Anas is currently in
government custody.
Sources close to Taliban have said that the removal of
Taliban names was due to the US request. This move indicates that both the US
and Taliban try to marginalize Kabul government in peace talks.
MENAFN1304201901690000ID1098383495
MENAFN1304201901690000ID1098383495
Legal Disclaimer:MENAFNprovides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.

Tags
Comments
Category
Date
Daily(English)Daily(Arabic)All()

World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data.
Contact UsClick here
Copyright © 2000MENAFN.All rights reserved.
Design & Devleopment byMENAFN

Title: Indian Army killed 66 terrorists in 2019, 27 from Jaish-e-Mohammed - India Today
Listen to Story
The Indian Army had launched a special operation drive against Jaish-e-Mohammed after the Pulwama attack in February this year. Out of the 66 terrorists killed in 2019, at least 27 were from Pakistan-based terror outfit.
In just one and a half months, the security forces and intelligence agencies completely neutralised the terrorists believed to be involved in the Pulwama attack.
Some overground and active supporters have also been arrested and deported, top government sources told India Today TV.
Based on the leads provided by the 40 suspects of Jaish and electronic surveillance, a total of four terrorists involved in the Pulwama attack have been neutralised while four others have been arrested.Muhammad Umar, a terrorist who has been neutralised as part of the Indian Army's special drive.
Kamran, Mushashir Ahmed Khan and Sajjad Bhat are the names of a few terrorists gunned down by the Indian Army in the special operation.
ISI and JeM are now reportedly diverting terrorists from Afghanistan to bolster their operations in Jammu and Kashmir.Nisar Ahmad Tantray was another JeM operative neutralised in operations.
A high level of coordination between the Haqqani network and JeM has also been tracked by Indian and international agencies.Neutralised terrorist Usman Ibrahim
On February 15, a delegation of Haqqani network met terrorist Masood Azhar in Bahawalpur. After the attack on February 26 in Balakot, Jaish cadres are reportedly being trained in Haqqani network facilities.Read |Indian Coast Guard on high alert after Sri Lanka serial blastsAlso Read |In India, Sri Lanka blasts enter Lok Sabha election debateMust Read |Suicide bombers, global network behind Sri Lanka serial blasts that killed 290Published By:Anupriya ThakurPublished On:Apr 22, 2019--- ENDS ---

Title: 4 Haqqani militants killed in Afghan airstrike
Gardez :, April 12 (IANS) At least four Haqqani militants were killed in an airstrike in Afghanistan's Paktia province on Friday, officials said.
"Based on a confirmed tip-off, the airstrike was launched on outskirts of provincial capital Gardez on Friday morning. The sortie killed four militants of Haqqani terrorist group," according to a statement issued by the provincial government.
Security forces and civilians did'nt suffer any damage in the strike which was launched by the NATO-led coalition forces in coordination with Afghan security forces, the statement was cited as saying by Xinhua news agency.
A number of heavy and light weapons and ammunition were also destroyed in the raid.
Haqqani network, aTaliban-linked militant group, mostly operates in eastern provinces and capital Kabul and has been responsible for high-profile attacks on security forces.
The network, which was named as a terrorist group by the US in 2012, was yet to comment on the incident.
The Afghan security forces, backed by the NATO-led coalition troops, have increased ground and air offensives against militants within the past a few months as the fighting season is drawing near in the country.
Earlier in the day, the Taliban militant group announced the launch of a yearly rebel offensive against Afghan and coalition forces codenamed al-Fath.

Title: JeM looking at closer links with Taliban, Haqqani network after losing top leaders in encounters
New Delhi:The Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) led by Maulana Masood Azhar, after losing a number of its top leaders in encounters with the security forces, is bringing in trained terrorists from Afghanistan and also looking at closer links with the Taliban and the Afghanistan-based Haqqani Network, highly-placed government sources said.
JeM terrorists, after training in Pakistan and Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK), have begun going to Afghanistan for advanced training. Many went to the Afghan "finishing schools" after learning their trade in the Balakot training camp in Pakistan, destroyed by the Indian Air Force on February 26.
A 15-member delegation of Taliban and Haqqani network leaders called on Masood Azhar in Bahawalpur, the JeM headquarters, on February 15. The Taliban were also part of the United Jihad Council's annual meeting in January this year.
In the first hundred days of 2019, security forces in Jammu and Kashmir have killed 27 JeM cadres, 19 of them after the attack on the Central Reserve Policemen in Pulwama on February 14. Over 40 policemen died in the Pulwama suicide bomber attack.
Among those killed by the security forces are Mohammed Umar, a relative of Masood Azhar himself, and very active in the Ghazni area for a long while. Security forces killed him on March 29.

Another relative of the Maulana, Usman Haider, active in Kandahar, was killed in Tral on October 30 last year. Both helped in setting up meetings between Taliban leaders in Afghanistan and Ibrahim Azhar, the Maulana's brother, and the leader of the group that hijacked IC-814, the Indian Airlines plane from Kathmandu to Kandahar in December 1999. The Indian government of those days was forced to release the Maulana and two others; the hijackers had threatened to blow up the plane and the passengers if her were not returned.

Two others-- Abdul Rashid Ghazi, known for making Improvised Explosive Devices or IEDs, and Yasir-- have moved to Jammu and Kashmir from Afghanistan. They have brought with them US-made M4 carbines and telescopic sights to target security forces in the state.
The "transfer" of Afghanistan-based JeM men to Jammu and Kashmir is a worry for India. It is clear that Pakistan is involved. India hopes that the United States, sources said, will also look into it.
Watch Times NowLIVE TVfor latest and breaking news fromIndiaand around theworld.