Title: Threat of ISIS to Afghanistan and the region - Daily Times
Daily Times
Your right to knowTuesday, September 24, 2024
Perspectives
The ISIS has an international agenda and the Taliban have domestic agendas only. Hence, now, Pakistan, Iran, CARs, Russia and China are in favour of supporting intra Afghan dialogue with the Taliban, and even the US has agreed to become a part of the dialogue
Col (R) Muhammad Hanif
October 5, 2018
The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), also called IS-Khorasan (IS-K), made itsentry into Afghanistanon January 2015. Initially, the IS-K comprised of some defectors from the Afghan Taliban and some from Pakistani Taliban, who had fled to Afghanistan, to escape from the Zarb-I-Azb operation of the Pakistan Army, and a merging of other factions from Afghanistan, who had pledged allegiance to the ISIS.
Later, the group was joined by some other factions of Afghanistan, the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) and the ISIS, that was suffering from a reversal in Iraq and Levant.
On April 2015, the IS-Ks’ presence was detected in the north-eastern Afghan provinces of Kunar and Nangarhar as the IS-K started attacking targets in the province. The Taliban began their offensive against the IS-K fighters in the Nangarhar province, as they are against ISIS presence in Afghanistan. Afterwards, the US and Afghan forces also attacked the IS-K. These operations have been going on intermittently since June 2015, and the Taliban have been limiting the IS-Ks’ ability to hold ground.
Although the IS-K has been suffering losses due to the Taliban operations, and the US bombing, they still have steady number because of reinforcements from the fleeing ISIS members from Iraq and Syria. After getting shot down by the Taliban in one province the IS-K goes to other provinces, where it finds space. Currently, it has made its presence known in the Farah and Helmand provinces.
The Independent (UK), on September 3, 2018, reported that “the IS-K in Afghanistan has gathered strength as the US military estimates that IS-K has around 2,000 fighters, although the IS-Ks’ grip on Afghanistan has been weakened by the killing of its country head, Abu Sayed Orakzai.” However, the Military Times, USA, wrote on 26 March 2018, that “According to our data, the IS presence in northeastern Afghanistan is rather serious, having thousands of gunmen”.
According to the foreign media, since April 2015, till 9 September 2018, the IS-K has launched a total of 72 suicide and other attacks in Afghanistan, including 2 attacks in 2015, 10 attacks in 2016, 20 attacks in 2017, and 40 attacks in 2018; with almost 28 suicide bombings conducted in Kabul. Around 14 attacks were conducted in Kabul in from September till 2018, this indicates that IS-K is still a potent threat to Afghanistan’s stability.
Although the IS-K has been suffering losses due to the Taliban operations, and the US bombing, they still have steady number because of reinforcements from the fleeing ISIS members from Iraq and Syria. After getting shot down by the Taliban in one province, the IS-K goes to other provinces where it successfully finds space
Furthermore, in another report, Iran warned Pakistan to be careful because of the relocation of the Islamic State, in the border region shared between Pakistan and Afghanistan. As published by theVoice of America(VOA), Middle East Chapter, on 12 March 2018, Iran accused the United States of helping the Islamic State militants in Afghanistan to fuel regional terrorism.
In light of the above discussed situation, Afghanistan’s neighbours and other regional countries think that a firm hold of the IS-K in Afghanistan would be more dangerous than the Taliban for the stability of Afghanistan and other regions. The ISIS has an international agenda and the Taliban have domestic agendas only. Hence, now, Pakistan, Iran, CARs, Russia and China are in favour of supporting intra Afghan dialogue with the Taliban, and even the US has agreed to become a part of the dialogue. Therefore, it is suggested that all the regional countries and extra-regional powers, who have a stake in Afghanistan should support the dialogue, and countries who have leverage with the Taliban should help in making the dialogue sustainable and successful.
The writer is an ex-Army Colonel, a former Research Fellow of Islamabad Policy Research Institute (IPRI), Islamabad and Senior Research Fellow, Strategic Vision Institute, Islamabad]. He can be reached at hanifsardar@hotmail.com
Published in Daily Times, October 5th2018.




More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category

HomeLead StoriesLatest NewsEditor’s Picks
CultureLife & StyleFeaturedVideos
EditorialsOP-EDSCommentaryAdvertise
CartoonsLettersBlogsPrivacy Policy
ContactCompany’s FinancialsInvestor InformationTerms & Conditions
FacebookTwitterInstagramYoutube
Copyright © 2024 Daily TimesWebsite Developed ByDaily Times Developers

Title: Iran, Russia Seen Vying for Influence in Afghanistan
Print
Russia continues to compete for influence in Afghanistan, where international reconciliation efforts are underway, while Iran is playing both sides of the Afghan conflict, according to a top U.S. military official.
The head of U.S. Central Command, Army Gen. Joseph Votel, told VOA that Moscow was posturing to be a "player in the solution" to the decades-long conflict.
"I think what they [Russia] are doing trying to do is they are pursuing a strategy which is to compete with us by trying to exert their influence wherever they can, whether it is in Afghanistan or Syria or anywhere else," Votel said.
"They are continuing to use disinformation to create the narrative that they want," the CENTCOM commander noted. "They continue to perpetuate this idea, not just in Afghanistan, but in Iraq and Syria as well, that the United States is responsible for supporting and propagating ISIS."
Votel said the notion that the United States was somehow promoting the Islamic State terror group, also referred to as ISIS, was "ridiculous."
Russia's spoiler role
Matt Dearing, an assistant professor at the Washington-based National Defense University, said Moscow's involvement in Afghanistan comes as no surprise.
"They have every incentive to play spoiler in Afghanistan. I expect they will continue to do so on multiple fronts, whether it is engaging Taliban or supporting government opposition parties," Dearing said.
"It is unfortunate when political figures in Afghanistan accept Russian support, as this creates further divisions in politics and weakens the legitimacy of GIROA [Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan]," he added.
Thomas Johnson, a professor at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California, and author ofTaliban Narratives,said that while Russia is trying to assert influence in Afghanistan, its role is somewhat exaggerated.
"I think the notion that they [Russian officials] play a role on [the] Taliban is overblown," Johnson said, adding that Afghans, including the Taliban, have a vivid memory of Russian intervention in late 1970s and that "Afghans dislike Russians."
Johnson, who has spent time in Afghanistan, said Russian President Vladimir Putin ultimately wants to see the U.S. fail in the war-torn country.
"I think Putin has a global view. I think that he is playing chess. I think he is trying to ensure that the United States does not achieve any of its goals in Afghanistan," he said.
Omar Samad, a Washington-based former Afghan ambassador, said new regional fronts and alliances have taken shape in recent years, undermining regional and international consensus that once existed on the goal of counterterrorism.
"The issue of Afghanistan, until two to three years ago, was a relatively black-and-white issue, where you had the international community, including countries like Russia and Iran, backing the Afghan government and standing united against terrorism," Samad told VOA's Afghan service.
"Now countries have created new alliances, and peace talks in Afghanistan mean different things to different countries," he said. "The definition of friends and foes has changed."
Russian contacts with Taliban
Moscow does not deny its contacts with the Afghan Taliban, but Russian officials assert the country is in touch with the insurgents to encourage them to engage in peace talks.
"We maintain these contacts primarily for the sake of the security of Russian nationals in Afghanistan, Russian agencies there, and also to convince the Taliban to renounce armed conflict and join the national dialogue with the government," Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said in August, after the Afghan government voiced concerns about the issue.
Lavrov rejected Afghan assertions that Moscow's ties with the insurgents were aimed at using the Taliban to fight Islamic State militants.
"I cannot imagine how Russia even hypothetically could use the Taliban against ISIS," he said, using an acronym for Islamic State. "We are fighting ISIS with every tool we have. We support Syria in this fight and provide assistance in equipping the Iraqi army for the same purpose. Of course, we want the Afghan people to get rid of ISIS."
Earlier this year, Moscow planned a regional conference in Moscow for September and invited representatives from 11 regional countries, including China, Pakistan and Iran.
Afghan officials expressed concern about the conference, fearing it would undermine the country's long-held stance of leading and owning the peace talks with the Taliban.
A phone call between Lavrov and Afghan President Ashraf Ghani led to both sides postponing the meeting.
Iran's role in Afghanistan
Russia is not the only nation seeking influence in Afghanistan. CENTCOM's Votel said the Iranians have "hedged their bets" in Afghanistan, by trying to have relationships with both the Afghan government and the Taliban.
He said that unlike Russia, Iran is more concerned about its own stability.
"They [Iranian leaders] don't have any, obviously, any love for us [the U.S.] here, but I do think Iran shares concerns along their eastern border, the western part of Afghanistan, and is concerned about the threat of this emanating onto them," Votel told VOA on Thursday.
Anthony Cordesman, with the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington research group, said the relationship between the Taliban and Iran was more of a contingency plan.
"They are creating relationships that they hope will make the Taliban safe if it takes over from the Afghan government," Cordesman said earlier this year, following reports of Tehran's involvement in the large-scale attack on Afghanistan's Farah province in May, which borders Iran.
"Another source of speculation is that Iran is supporting the Taliban as a counterbalance to the growing role of ISIS inside Afghanistan," he added.
VOA's Mehdi Jedinia, Khalid Mafton and Ayaz Gul contributed to this report.


Title: Can Saudi Arabia play peacemaker in Afghanistan?
The Saudis are making moves in Afghanistan, courting the Taliban and trying to cement its role as a dealmaker. Will Saudi's vested interests trump its role as a mediator?

Afghan government officialsreportedly metwith members of the Taliban in Saudi Arabia last week to address security in Afghanistan’s upcoming parliamentary elections and discuss a prisoner release. Saudi Arabia had previously brokered talks between the two sides ten years ago, and appears to be stepping up its involvement in the conflict again as part of a joint US-ledeffortwith the UAE and Afghanistan.
At the same time, another peace effort is underway in Doha, Qatar, where the Taliban’s political commission isbased.
In July, US officials conductedface-to-face secret talksin Doha with the Taliban to resolve the 17-year Afghan war. Another round of talks was planned for later this year, but the Taliban refused to agree to US demands for a three-month ceasefire. Then came the meeting in Saudi Arabia.
Riyadh’s concern regarding Afghanistan is driven mainly by the role played there by the kingdom’s two main rivals, Iran and Qatar. Tehran has reportedly formed an alliance with the Taliban, which it sees as a partner against Daesh in Afghanistan.
Qatar, for its part, exerts influence in Afghan politics thanks to the presence of the Taliban office in Doha, where numerous talks have occurred between parties to the conflict.
As part of its current peace moves, Saudi Arabia apparently wishes to split the Taliban and lure away factions hostile to Iran, who might reconcile with the Afghan government and participate in a power-sharing agreement. By increasing its political role in Afghanistan, it might alsocounter Qatari influencein Afghan politics and mitigate Doha’s diplomatic importance.
Will an old hand resurface old problems?
Saudi Arabia’s involvement in Afghanistan goes back decades. The Kingdom partnered with the US and Pakistan to oppose the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan in the 1980s.
When the country descended into civil war following the Soviet withdrawal, Riyadh dropped the militants it had previously backed and supported the Taliban. Saudi Arabia, with Pakistan and the UAE, was one of only three countries that recognised the Taliban government.
But, after 9/11, Riyadh severed diplomatic ties with the Taliban and threw its weight behind the new Afghan administration of Hamid Karzai. However,private donationsfrom wealthy Saudis continued to flow to the group.
As Afghanistan became more unstable in the 2000s and Iran’s role there grew, Riyadh also increased its involvement, brokering talks between the Taliban and Afghan government in 2008-2009.
The kingdom has financed auniversity,mosqueandhospitalsin Afghanistan, in part tocounter Tehran. It formed close ties with President Ghani, who made his first official overseas visit to Riyadh and also signed up to a new Saudi-led counterterrorism alliance, which excludes Qatar and Iran.
Furthermore, the increasingly anti-Shia Afghan political party Hezb e Islami may receive Saudi funds, according to Afghanistan expertAntonio Giustozzi.
Energy
Saudi Arabia’s regional competition with Iran also extends to the energy sector. Riyadh isinvestingin the Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India gas pipeline (TAPI). Construction of the Afghan section of TAPI commenced in February, 2018.
The pipeline would supply Pakistan and India with gas, potentially eliminating the need for gas imports from Iran, which have long been planned via the delayed Iran-Pakistan-India pipeline.
While much of Riyadh’s interest in Afghanistan relates to Iran, its Gulf rival Qatar is also a factor.
In 2011 Saudi Arabia, the UAE, and Qatar competed to host a political office for the Taliban. Saudi and the Emirates demanded, as a condition of hosting the group, that they renounce Al Qaeda and accept the Afghan constitution. Qatar made no such demands, and the office was opened in Doha in 2013.
Since then, Saudi Arabia’s rivalry with Qatar has intensified, culminating in the severing of all ties in 2017. In a further effort to marginalise Qatar and reduce its influence in Afghanistan, RiyadhurgedPresident Trump to shut down the Taliban office in Doha.
The kingdom’s envoy in Afghanistan has accused Qatar of supporting the Taliban, who he referred to as “armed terrorists”.
This harsh rhetoric is part of an increasingly hostile Saudiattitude to the group. The kingdom has also used coercive tactics to force the Taliban to negotiate. For example, in July the kingdom organized a conference of ulema who denounced the Taliban’s war as un-Islamic and urged peace talks. Saudi Arabia has also increased pressure on its ally Pakistan to reduce its alleged support for terror groups.
Last week’s meeting aside, Riyadh has had little diplomatic success.
Qatar, by contrast, not only won its bid to host the Taliban office, but has brokered numerous rounds of talks. The Taliban apparently despise and distrust Saudi Arabia, which they see as having betrayed them to the Americans after 9/11. Moreover, the group has strained relations with Saudi ally Pakistan, which hasarresteddozens of Taliban in recent years.
Riyadh may therefore struggle to play a positive role in negotiations. There is also a danger that Saudi Arabia will exploit any peace process to undermine Iran and Qatar. But a successful resolution to the war in Afghanistan will require a broad multilateral agreement between various countries, including Iran, Russia, Pakistan, and others.
Cooperation, not conflict, is the order of the day.
Given its importance in the Muslim world, Saudi Arabia should be well-placed to facilitate a successful Afghan peace process. Whether it actually does so, is another matter.

Title: Which historical figure, given enough time, would have been able to change the world? - Quora
Something went wrong. Wait a moment and try again.

Title: MSN


Title: MSN


Title: MSN


Title: US envoy on Afghan peace takes his mission to Pakistan | Fox News
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2024 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided byFactset. Powered and implemented byFactSet Digital Solutions.Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided byRefinitiv Lipper.
FILE - This March 2009, file photo, shows Zalmay Khalilzad, special adviser on reconciliation in Kabul, Afghanistan. Zalmay Khalilzad, Washington’s newly named point man, tasked with finding a peaceful end to Afghanistan’s 17- year war, is in Pakistan to seek the new government’s help pushing the Taliban to the table, according to a U.S. Embassy statement Tuesday, Oct. 9, 2018. (AP Photo/Rafiq Maqbool, File)
ISLAMABAD –Washington's newly named point man tasked with finding a peaceful end to Afghanistan's 17-year war is in Pakistan to seek the help of the new government in Islamabad in bringing the Taliban to the negotiating table, the U.S. Embassy said Tuesday.
A former U.S. ambassador in Kabul, Zalmay Khalilzad arrived in Pakistan from neighboring Afghanistan. His tour of the region will also include Middle East stops in the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Saudi Arabia.
In Afghanistan, he met with President Ashraf Ghani, a long-time friend. Khalilzad, who was also born in Afghanistan, first served in Kabul as a special envoy of President George W. Bush following the 2001 ouster of the Taliban and then as Washington's ambassador to Afghanistan.
But Khalilzad has a prickly relationship with Pakistan, having often accused Islamabad of fomenting violence in Afghanistan by supporting the Taliban. He has even said the United States should declare Pakistan a terrorist state.
Washington and Kabul have both repeatedly accused Pakistan of providing safe havens for Taliban insurgents, a claim Islamabad has denied and countered with charges that its own insurgents have found sanctuary in Afghanistan.
Both neighboring countries have been brutally targeted by militants. In Pakistan the perpetrators have most often been the region's Islamic State affiliate, as well as the Pakistani Taliban. In neighboring Afghanistan, the IS has been relentless in attacks, mostly targeting minority Shiites. The Afghan Taliban say they restrict their attacks to Afghan security forces but thousands of civilians have been killed in their attack.
Pakistan's new Prime Minister Imran Khan has been a strident critic of Islamabad's previous participation in Washington's so-called war on terror. However, he promised after winning the polls in July that his government would be "partners in peace." It is not clear what that would entail but Pakistan has supported Afghan President Ghani's peace overtures to the Taliban.
It wasn't clear with whom Khalilzad would meet in Pakistan but the list likely includes Foreign Minister Mahmood Quereshi and also possibly the country's powerful army chief. Pakistan's Afghan policy is largely seen as navigated by the military and its intelligence agency, known by its acronym, ISI.
Khalilzad's tour of the region, which was first announced by the State Department as a mission to coordinate and lead U.S. efforts to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table, has been shrouded in secrecy.
One of his stops is Qatar, where the Taliban maintain a political office. In July, the Taliban said they met there with Alice Wells, Washington's then-top diplomat in the region. Washington has neither denied nor confirmed the meeting though Wells was in Qatar at the time. It is not known whether there would be a similar meeting with Khalilzad on his visit.
Direct talks with the U.S. have been a persistent demand of the Taliban, who accuse Ghani's government of being America's "puppets." The Taliban have refused so far to comment on Khalilzad's appointment.
The Afghan Taliban have condemned Afghanistan's parliamentary elections later this month and threatened more attacks on Afghan security forces.
In a statement on Monday, which was also released in English, the Taliban also urged Afghan candidates to withdraw their names from the ballot lists. They denounced the polls as an America-designed ploy to further U.S. interests in Afghanistan and warned Afghan security forces that they would be targeted.
The statement also repeated the long-standing Taliban demand for a complete withdrawal of foreign troops from Afghanistan.
Fox News' Antisemitism Exposed" newsletter brings you stories on the rising anti-Jewish prejudice across the U.S. and the world."
By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox NewsPrivacy PolicyandTerms of Use, and
        agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can
        opt-out at any time.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2024 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided byFactset. Powered and implemented byFactSet Digital Solutions.Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided byRefinitiv Lipper.

Title: Afghanistan peace process must tackle Taliban discontent and the allure of ISIS
ByAnastasia Bradatan
Although the Afghanistan conflict is no stranger to violence against civilians, the United Nations claims that the first six months of 2018 have brought about anew record high of 1,700 civilian deaths. Of these deaths, 52 percent are attributed toIslamic State Khorasan Province-backed attacks. With close to 1,500 fighters, the militant group has proven its ability to reassert itself despite the pressure it has faced from the Taliban, the Afghan government, and U.S.-led NATO forces.
ISKP’s membership and territorial control could grow even further in the event of a peace agreement between the Taliban and the Afghan government, given that disgruntled Taliban fighters might move to the ISKP side.
With the United States now in theearly stagesof peace talks with the Taliban, there is a growing urgency for Washington to adopt new military tactics against ISKP and develop a strong reintegration plan for Taliban fighters. To mitigate the risk of strengthening ISKP, the United States should help the Afghan government establish an agency focused solely on reintegration efforts, and should work closer with Pakistan in curbing ISKP’s regional strength.
The need to change the course of action against ISKP, particularly as the United States embarks in peace dialogues with the Taliban, lies in the fact that some Taliban fighters, disgruntled with the peace process, might join ISKP.
AlthoughISKP and the Afghan Taliban have fought against each other in places such as Jowzjanprovince, ISKP could see an opportunity to recruit Taliban fighters unhappy with the peace process.
As noted in a May 2016reportby the Middle East Institute, “the best and only chance for [ISKP] to resurge in Afghanistan is if ongoing fragmentation in the Taliban leads to a major breakup, allowing ISKP to possibly absorb these fighters to rebuild its strength.”
ISKP’sinvolvementin the illegal mining of talc as well as thedrug tradecreates economic incentives for Taliban members to join. While some of the current ISKP fighters are drawn to the group’s ideology, many are former Taliban (Afghan and Pakistani) fighterswanting to gaina greater role in the drug trade.
Additionally, with Afghanistan’s current dire economic situation, it is unclear what economic incentives the Afghan government could provide to former Taliban fighters to comply with even a partial disarmament. Given that employment would be a primary concern particularly for young reconciled Taliban fighters, employment opportunities in a country with more than half the populationlivingin poverty seem dim.
The prospect of former Taliban fighters joining ISKP seems all the more likely with recent U.S. intelligence reportsstatingthat Islamic State is well-positioned to rise again based on its number of fighters and healthy financial standing.
Additionally, ISIS is able to facilitate the relocation of some of its key operatives to Afghanistan, according to aU.N. report. This has given ISIS members the chance to plot terrorist attacks against Europe from Afghanistan, which although they have been detected and derailed, still show how dangerous ISKP is becoming.
Earlier this month, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani expressed hisconcernthat the number of ISKP fighters (particularly Syrian and Iraqi fighters) is growing. To date, U.S. tactics against the group have mostly consisted of an ongoingairstrike campaign, which includeddroppingthe “Mother of All Bombs”  – the largest non-nuclear bomb in the U.S. arsenal – in April 2017, totargeted drone strikes against ISKP leaders.
U.S. air strikes against the group, however, have been insufficient in taking out ISKP, which hasremainedresilient. If former Taliban fighters were to join, eliminating ISKP from Afghanistan would become even more challenging.
In addressing the issue of economic incentives for ex-fighters, the United States and Afghanistan can draw lessons from what has been largely viewed as thesuccessfulreintegration of FARC rebels into Colombian society.
Following the Colombian model of creating an Agency for Reintegration, the United States could, along with its allies, fund the creation of an Afghan government agency solely focused on reintegration efforts.
That agency, as the one in Colombia, would focus on providing educational programs, vocational training, microbusiness loans, and other employment resources for former Taliban fighters. Such an agency could dissuade Taliban fighters from joining ISKP for economic reasons.
To address the increased security threat posed by ISKP, the United States should pursue closer counterterrorism cooperation with the Pakistani government. Islamabad also views ISKP as a top security threat, thereby making itfeasiblethat they can work together to curb the extremist group in the near future.
Disregarding the ISKP’s regional force might bring about an uptick in the number of civilian casualties, particularly among religious and ethnic minorities, as a result of this terrorist group’s lethal attacks.
As the United States pursues peace talks with the Afghan Taliban, it should remain cognizant of the security threats posed by other regional terrorist groups, especially ISKP.

Anastasia Bradatanis a former researcher with the Stimson Center South Asia Center. Additionally, she has also held positions with the American Enterprise Institute Critical Threats Project and the Armed Conflict Location & Event Data Project (ACLED).
She graduated from the University of Texas at Austin with a BA in International Relations, Hindi, and Spanish-Portuguese. During her undergraduate career, she spent a year abroad in India studying Hindi and Urdu as a David L. Boren scholar.
All views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the author, and do not necessarily reflect the opinions or positions of The Defense Post.
The Defense Post aims to publish a wide range of high-quality opinion and analysis from a diverse array of people – do you want to send us yours?Click hereto submit an Op-Ed.
The Defense Post aims to publish a wide range of high-quality opinion and analysis from a diverse array of people – do you want to send us yours?Click here to submit an Op-Ed

Title: U.N.: Jihahi Civilian Killings at 'Extreme Levels' in Afghanistan
The killing and maiming of civilians, mostly at the hands of the Taliban and to a lesser extent the Islamic State (ISIS/ISIL), has reached “extreme levels” in Afghanistan, the United Nations reported this week.
According areportissued Wednesday by the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA), there were 8,050 civilians killed (2,798) and wounded (5,252) between January and September. The use of suicide bombings and other improvised explosive devices (IEDs) by anti-government elements accounted for almost half (3,634) the casualties.
“In the first nine months of 2018, the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) continued to document extreme levels of harm to civilians from the armed conflict, including recording the most civilian deaths during the same nine-month period since 2014,” UNAMA reported.
“The killing and maiming of Afghan civilians by improvised explosive devices (IEDs), particularly suicide devices, has reached extreme levels in Afghanistan. IEDs cause almost half of the civilian casualties from conflict-related violence and are being increasingly used in attacks targeting civilians,” UNAMA added in an October 7report.
The 3,634 casualties caused by suicide attacks and jihadi IEDs, also known as homemade bombs, during the first nine months of this year include 1,065 deaths and 2,569 injuries, marking a 21 percent increase from the same period in 2017.
UNAMA pointed in its October 7 assessment:
The leading cause of civilian deaths and injuries from the armed conflict remained the combined use of suicide and non-suicide IEDs by Anti-Government Elements, reaching record high levels in the first three quarters of 2018, with Anti-Government Elements increasingly directing such attacks against the civilian population, including minority Shi’a Muslims, the majority of whom are ethnic Hazara.
The United Nations determined that the Taliban remains the deadliest group, trailed closely by the ISIS branch in Afghanistan known as Khorasan Province (ISKP).
“Of the 65 percent [5,243] of civilian casualties attributed to Anti-Government Elements, 35 percent were attributed to Taliban, 25 percent to Daesh/ISKP, and five percent to unidentified Anti- Government Elements (including less than one percent to self-proclaimed Daesh/ISKP),” UNAMA noted.
For the first time, Nangarhar, ISIS’ primary stronghold located along the border with Pakistan, surpassed the Afghan capital of Kabul regarding the highest number fatalities.
“UNAMA notes with extreme concern that Nangarhar became the province that recorded the most civilian casualties in the first nine months of 2018 with 1,494 civilian casualties (554 deaths and 940 injured), more than double the number of civilian casualties recorded in that province during the same period in 2017,” the U.N. reported.
Despite the fall of the group’s so-called caliphate in Iraq and Syria, ISIS remains a significant threat in Afghanistan where it has repeatedly attempted toresurrectits Islamic State.
U.N. officials determined that ISIS was behind more than half of the IED deaths.
“UNAMA attributed all civilian casualties from suicide and non-suicide IEDs during this period to Anti- Government Elements, with 52 percent of civilian casualties attributed to Daesh/Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), 40 percent to Taliban, and the remainder to undetermined Anti-Government Elements,” the international body revealed.
Suicide attacks and IEDs are the number one cause of civilian casualties followed by the fighting between insurgents and U.S. -backed Afghan security forces that resulted in 605 fatalities and 1,706 injuries between the beginning of January and end of September.
U.S. and Afghan military airstrikes killed 313 and wounded 336 civilians during the first nine months of this year.
“Women and children continued to comprise more than 60 percent of all aerial attack civilian casualties and the number of child casualties from these attacks increased by 53 percent compared to the first nine months of 2017,” UNAMA reported.
The U.N. reports come amidintensifiedefforts by U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration to bring the Taliban to the peace negotiation table.
So far, the Taliban has rejected a U.S.-backed offer by Kabul of a ceasefire and recognition as a legitimate political group.
“As there can be no military solution to the fighting in Afghanistan, the United Nations renews its call for an immediate and peaceful settlement to the conflict,” Tadamichi Yamamoto, the UNAMA chief in Kabul,” declared in astatement.
Pleaselet us knowif you're having issues with commenting.




Copyright © 2024 Breitbart

Title: Afghanistan's Civilian Death Toll Rising 
Print
Afghanistan's civilians continue to die in record numbers, according to a new report released Wednesday by the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan.
From the start of the year to the end of September, the U.N. documented 8,050 civilian casualties, of which 2,798 died, and 5,252 were wounded.
In the 17 years of conflict, the last five years seem to have been the deadliest for civilians, a chart in UNAMA's report indicates.
Most of the casualties resulted from the actions by non-state actors, including the Taliban and Islamic State. The use of improvised explosive devices used in suicide attacks increased in their "frequency and lethality," according to the U.N.'s Quarterly Report on the Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict.
"Of the 65 percent of civilian casualties attributed to anti-government elements, 35 percent were attributed to the Taliban; 25 percent to Daesh/ISKP; and 5 percent to unidentified anti-government elements (including less than 1 percent to self-proclaimed Daesh/ISKP)," the U.N. report specified.
Ground engagements
The second leading cause for civilian casualties, 29 percent, was ground engagements between warring factions.
The report said casualties from ground engagements have declined, which may be due to efforts by various parties to protect civilians from harm, like advance warnings.
The province with the most casualties was Nangarhar, where ISKP, Islamic State's Afghan branch, still has a stronghold. It was also the deadliest province for U.S. forces in 2017.
The increase in NATO and U.S. airstrikes on Taliban and ISKP targets, particularly since President Donald Trump announced a new South Asia policy in August of last year, led to an increase in civilian casualties from air operations, the report said. The U.N. called the trend "worrying."
More than 60 percent of the civilian victims of air attacks continued to be women and children, with the number of child victims increasing 53 percent over the same period last year, according to the report.
Many attacks were on anti-government elements hiding among the civilian population, the report said.
UNAMA has recommended to both Afghan and international forces that they review their targeting and battlefield criteria, including "considering all persons to be civilians unless determined otherwise."
Reports of human rights abuses during government search operations is another concern of the U.N. mission.
"The mission received consistent, credible accounts of intentional destruction of civilian property, illegal detention, and other abuses carried out by NDS Special Forces and pro-government armed groups, including the Khost Protection Force," the UNAMA report said.
The report also documented the "killing, maiming, sexual abuse and recruitment and use of Afghan girls and boys."
Election-related violence
Meanwhile, 366 civilian casualties were a result of election-related violence. Afghanistan plans to hold its parliamentary election on Oct. 20.
Calling the upcoming election "bogus," the Taliban announced this week that it would use all means to disrupt the elections, giving rise to fears that election-related violence will increase in the next two weeks.
"The Islamic Emirate instructs all its Mujahideen to halt this American-led process throughout the country by creating severe obstacles for it, while taking extensive and intensive care of civilian Afghan lives and their properties," the Taliban statement said, asking fighters to attack anyone involved in helping hold the elections.
The U.N. report also pointed out that civilians paid the heaviest toll during several days of fighting in Ghazni city when the Taliban launched a multipronged attack in August.
"All parties can and should do their utmost to protect civilians from harm," said Tadamichi Yamamoto, the secretary-general's special representative for Afghanistan and head of UNAMA.


Title: Afghanistan's Civilian Death Toll Rising
By Ayesha Tanzeem  October 10, 2018
Afghanistan's civilians continue to die in record numbers, according to a new report released Wednesday by the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan.
From the start of the year to the end of September, the U.N. documented 8,050 civilian casualties, of which 2,798 died, and 5,252 were wounded.
In the 17 years of conflict, the last five years seem to have been the deadliest for civilians, a chart in UNAMA's report indicates.
Most of the casualties resulted from the actions by non-state actors, including the Taliban and Islamic State. The use of improvised explosive devices used in suicide attacks increased in their "frequency and lethality," according to the U.N.'s Quarterly Report on the Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict.
"Of the 65 percent of civilian casualties attributed to anti-government elements, 35 percent were attributed to the Taliban; 25 percent to Daesh/ISKP; and 5 percent to unidentified anti-government elements (including less than 1 percent to self-proclaimed Daesh/ISKP)," the U.N. report specified.
Ground engagements
The second leading cause for civilian casualties, 29 percent, was ground engagements between warring factions.
The report said casualties from ground engagements have declined, which may be due to efforts by various parties to protect civilians from harm, like advance warnings.
The province with the most casualties was Nangarhar, where ISKP, Islamic State's Afghan branch, still has a stronghold. It was also the deadliest province for U.S. forces in 2017.
The increase in NATO and U.S. airstrikes on Taliban and ISKP targets, particularly since President Donald Trump announced a new South Asia policy in August of last year, led to an increase in civilian casualties from air operations, the report said. The U.N. called the trend "worrying."
More than 60 percent of the civilian victims of air attacks continued to be women and children, with the number of child victims increasing 53 percent over the same period last year, according to the report.
Many attacks were on anti-government elements hiding among the civilian population, the report said.
UNAMA has recommended to both Afghan and international forces that they review their targeting and battlefield criteria, including "considering all persons to be civilians unless determined otherwise."
Reports of human rights abuses during government search operations is another concern of the U.N. mission.
"The mission received consistent, credible accounts of intentional destruction of civilian property, illegal detention, and other abuses carried out by NDS Special Forces and pro-government armed groups, including the Khost Protection Force," the UNAMA report said.
The report also documented the "killing, maiming, sexual abuse and recruitment and use of Afghan girls and boys."
Election-related violence
Meanwhile, 366 civilian casualties were a result of election-related violence. Afghanistan plans to hold its parliamentary election on Oct. 20.
Calling the upcoming election "bogus," the Taliban announced this week that it would use all means to disrupt the elections, giving rise to fears that election-related violence will increase in the next two weeks.
"The Islamic Emirate instructs all its Mujahideen to halt this American-led process throughout the country by creating severe obstacles for it, while taking extensive and intensive care of civilian Afghan lives and their properties," the Taliban statement said, asking fighters to attack anyone involved in helping hold the elections.
The U.N. report also pointed out that civilians paid the heaviest toll during several days of fighting in Ghazni city when the Taliban launched a multipronged attack in August.
"All parties can and should do their utmost to protect civilians from harm," said Tadamichi Yamamoto, the secretary-general's special representative for Afghanistan and head of UNAMA.



Title: The Forum
The Forum>Article Comments>Why ISIS appears to be deadlier than the Taliban in Afghanistan>CommentsWhy ISIS appears to be deadlier than the Taliban in Afghanistan : CommentsByManoj Mishra, published 4/10/2018Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) poses a serious security threat to Afghan civilians — primarily minority communities and foreign nationals.New postView articleRefresh this pageUser listForum Main PageEmail AlertsPages:‹Page 12›AllAfghanistan, a back-block country of uneducated hillbillies, WTF are we doing tangling up with this bunch of losers?Posted bydiver dan, Thursday, 4 October 2018 9:26:50 AMWell, Diver. We could pull out and save a bunch of money and personal. And then let the Taliban and ISIS go head to head over the spoils of defeat?As girls are ripped out of schools and women once again become mere bagatelle or property with absolutely no rights and families of rape babies?That would probably sit well with you given your previous postings and "Christian" commentary?Me, I believe we need to sort these inhuman monsters out for once and all time and clean them off the face of the planet. We should offer the minorities and foreigners safe haven as the essential first step.Then deploy tactical nuclear weapons on Taliban and ISIS strongholds, to give them no safe haven or food production possibilities, let alone the poppy crops that to date have financed their murderous activities.If that involves huge collateral damage, it will inform these BRAVE desert "warriors" that they can not hide behind women and children as a tactic. Or fight from inside hospitals and schools!If this malignant cancer in the hide of humankind isn't completely excised. It could simply spread and spread until there is no safe place on earth for decent civilised human beings.These folk/animals respect strength and despise weakness of lack of resolve. And must see none of the latter and everything of the former.And expect no quarter until they give up/surrender unconditionally, then endure several decades of occupation and subsequent democratization.Anything else or less, will see us having to engage and re-engage again and again, with far greater comparable losses and cost over time.Alan B.Posted byAlan B., Thursday, 4 October 2018 11:26:12 AM( Rouhani , Netanyahu , Trump , Putin and Xi start speed-dialling with viral SMS swamping military communication links).Posted bynicknamenick, Thursday, 4 October 2018 12:35:00 PMAl/NNNyour "Jesus complex" is on your sleeve again.Posted bydiver dan, Thursday, 4 October 2018 1:00:46 PMThe sadest part of all this nonsense is that those innocent kids get badly hurt & traumatised & their future is guarateed to be just as bad when they grow up.It's a merry go round of mayhem.Posted byindividual, Thursday, 4 October 2018 5:40:17 PMinnocent kids get badly hurt & traumatised.Well then , a dozen nukes is a good idea then . Nuke the planet. If we don't who will , eh?Posted bynicknamenick, Thursday, 4 October 2018 7:07:18 PMPages:‹Page 12›AllNew postView articleRefresh this pageUser listForum Main PageEmail Alerts
Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) poses a serious security threat to Afghan civilians — primarily minority communities and foreign nationals.


Title: Why ISIS appears to be deadlier than the Taliban in Afghanistan - On Line Opinion - 4/10/2018
Become a subscriber or donor. Even $50 will make a difference.
We have a monthly audience of 70,000 and advertising packages from $200 a month.
We always need commissioning editors and sub-editors.
Got something to say? Submit an essay.
ISIS's affiliate in Afghanistan, also known as ISIS-Khorasan or Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), poses a serious security threat to Afghan civilians - primarily minority communities and foreign nationals.
This is evident from the recent high-profile terror attacks conducted by the group as well as other attacks in recent months that were given less global media coverage. The US strikes that have killed ISIS leaders, such as the August 2018 strike that killed Abu Sayeed Orakzai, are likely to have only a temporary impact on the group. The killings of then-leaders Abu Sayed in 2017, Abdul Hasib and Hafiz Sayed Khan in 2016 failed to make any significant impact on ISKP's vitality. ISIS has shown a tremendous ability to bounce back in Iraq and Syria by taking advantage of simmering disaffection, anger and frustration among rebel groups.
A UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) report released on July 15, 2018 indicated that even while the Taliban was responsible for more civilian casualties in the first half of 2018, according to the Taliban's own claims it was responsible for fewer civilian casualties across more attacks compared to ISIS, which perpetrates more civilian casualties across fewer attacks.
For instance, the report attributed 42 per cent of civilian casualties to the Afghan Taliban and 18 per cent to ISIS. The Taliban, however, claimed responsibility for 26 attacks resulting in 453 civilian casualties, while ISIS claimed responsibility for 15 attacks with 595 civilian casualties. Two points are revealing here. First, ISIS, though a new actor in the Afghan landscape, claimed responsibility for more casualties. It is possible that the Taliban, claiming as it does to be a legitimate actor, might have deliberately kept its reported number of civilian casualties low. Second, during the second half of 2018, which falls outside the purview of the report, ISIS perpetrated a number of dreadful attacks while the Taliban was at this time engaged in the peace process. The report stated that the number of civilians killed during the first six months of 2018 was the highest of the past decade. The appalling terror strikes perpetrated predominantly by ISIS in the second half of the year will see 2018 shaping up as one of the most violent years in Afghanistan on record.
Noticeably, the primary targets for the Taliban are Afghan government institutions and officials. This targeting tactic aims to pressure the US and Afghan governments so that they agree to its terms. ISIS not only targeted Afghan government officials and the foreign diplomatic presence it considers to be 'apostates', it also indiscriminately targeted those civilians ISIS believes to be 'heretics', primarily members of Afghanistan's religious minority communities. In May 2018, ISIS launched attacks on the Afghan Interior Ministry as well as the Finance Department, while the Education Department was attacked twice in July, 2018. The group targeted most of its offensives towards civilians in the Shiite sect and the Hazara ethnic community, considering these minority groups to be heretics. Religious minorities such as Hindu and Sikh are also not immune from ISIS terror strikes, as indicated by the offensives in the Afghan city of Jalalabad on July 1, 2018, which killed 19 people, including 17 members of the Sikh and Hindu communities there.
The Taliban has staked a claim to be a legal and political actor in Afghanistan and therefore is not likely to claim responsibility for attacks that result in large-scale killings of Afghan civilians. ISIS, on the other hand, has pan-Islamic objectives and openly claims its responsibility for attacks that take huge toll on those civilians who do not conform to their religious beliefs. Civilian casualties of the Taliban were primarily collateral damage from the armed clashes between the Afghan government and the Taliban, and between the Taliban on the one hand and NATO and American forces on the other. Taliban attacks on government institutions and the diplomatic presence of foreign countries also resulted in civilian deaths.
The objectives pursued by ISIS are far more dreadful and transnational than the objectives pursued by the Taliban in Afghanistan, as are their methods of torture. ISIS uses extremely brutal methods of torture, such as beheadings and forcing the victims to sit on explosives, while recording the dreadful event in order to arouse fear among other actors within Afghanistan, including foreign nationals and civilians of religious minority communities. ISIS's terrorizing of women through rape and abduction has contributed no less to the Afghan people's fear and anguish.
ISIS has claimed responsibility for despicable and horrendous terrorist attacks as well. For instance, successive terror attacks in Kabul on April 30, 2018 reportedly took lives of more than 40 civilians, including journalists and children. These strikes followed closely on the heels of a spate of serious attacks the week before in which more than 60 civilians were killed as they lined up to register to vote for the upcoming elections.
Attacks on August 15, 2018 claimed the lives of more than 48 young people, among whom 34 were students belonging to the Shiite minority sect who were preparing for their university entrance exams. The car-bomb attack on a gathering of Taliban and Afghan forces united to celebrate Eid ceasefire between June 15 and 17 claimed at least 26 lives and left several people wounded in the eastern province of Nangarhar. This attack could have no other objective except sabotaging the peace process and creating lawlessness in Afghanistan. Lawlessness will give ISIS the ability to spread its radical ideology and to recruit emotionally-tormented people.
The Taliban aspires to be a legal and political actor with firm indigenous roots. It is amenable to peace and reconciliation efforts despite its radical ambitions. ISIS, on the other hand, neither possesses any nationalist agenda nor does it adhere to any one indigenous character. For instance,a piece inThe Guardiannewspaper stated that ISIS in Afghanistan (ISKP) has been strengthened by Taliban defectors, fighters from Iraq and Syria, and militants from Sudan, Chechnya, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan. Russian sources continue to express their concern that ISIS has an enhanced presence in Afghanistan, with around 10,000 fighters spread across eight to nine provinces. This perception of an enhanced and threatening ISIS presence is also shared by China, Pakistan and Iran. Even while the US-led forces downplay ISIS's numbers and strength, the well-documented presence of the group in the eastern provinces of Nangarhar, Kunar and Nuristan along the Pakistani border and in the northern province of Jowzjan seems to be a major concern for neighboring countries. Cases of successful terror attacks conducted by the group in the city of Kabul lays bare the grim fact that whenever ISKP has advance notice of any slight slackening of security controls, the group has the ability to spread its influence to any part of Afghanistan.
This article was first published inEurasia Review.
This article was first published inEurasia Review.
See what other readers are saying about this article!
Click here to read & post comments.
10 posts so far.
10 comments
Printable version
Subscribe
Email to a friend
Dr Manoj Kumar Mishra is a Lecturer in Political Science at SVM Autonomous College, Odisha, India. He previously worked as Programme Director in the School of International Studies at Ravenshaw University, also in Odisha.
This work is licensed under aCreative Commons License.


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: US drone strike kills 21 ISIS fighters in Afghanistan, says military official  | The National
Asia
October 01, 2018
A suspected US drone strike killed 21 ISIS fighters in the eastern Afghan province of Nangarhar, officials said.
Major Haroon Yousafzai, a spokesman for the 201st "Selab" Corps said the strike took place on Sunday in the province's Khogyani district.
“The Afghan and US forces jointly targeted the ISIS hideouts in the Sikanar area of Wazir Tangi through unmanned aerial vehicles,” he said.
The Afghan branch of ISIS, known as ISIL-KP or Khorasan after the the historical region, has been battling both the Taliban and coalition forces since their emergence in 2015.
The US-led coalition has been engaged in regular airstrikes on ISIS positions across Nangarhar, the group's main hideout. “In Sunday’s airstrike a large number of weapons, ammunition and explosives were destroyed,” said Maj Yousafzai. The group's four top leaders have also been killed in recent US drone strikes.
_________
Read more:
Suicide bombing kills protesters in easternAfghanistan
Taliban say they're ready for second round of talks withUS
US threatens to arrest ICC judges who probe Afghan war crimes
_________
Speaking from an undisclosed location an ISIS commander toldThe Nationalthat a large number of civilians had been killed by US drone strikes, adding that the Afghan government was playing down the number of casualties.
"We will continue fighting these forces, including the Taliban, who are meeting these foreign forces for peace talks. We are true fighters and doing jihad,” he said.
Attacks on ISIS leadership were ramped up after a deadly blast in Jalalabad in Septemberkilled 68 people.
“I feel profound indignation at this latest wave of attacks deliberately targeting civilians,” said Tadamichi Yamamoto, the senior United Nations official in Afghanistan. “The planners [of the attacks] must face justice."
But not everyone is convinced of the military's success.
"ISIS is still a strong power in Eastern Afghanistan primarily in Nangarhar, there have been multiple operations...but they are still operating and initiating attacks even in the Kabul. I think Afghan government claims of killing ISIS fighters are false," Rahim ullah Yousafzai, a veteran Afghanistan analyst toldThe National.
“ISIS fighters are resilient, even the Taliban who won against ISIS in the north are reluctant to carry out operations against them in Nangarhar," said Mr Yousafzai.
US military commander General John Nicholson recently reiterated the need to eradicate the extremist group from the country.
"We are going fully at ISIS. And we also note that the Taliban is fighting ISIS and we encourage that because ISIS needs to be destroyed," he told the press.
In August the collapse of ISIS in the north led to the surrender of more than 150 militants, including 30 women and children in the northern Jowzjan province after weeks of fighting. The Taliban also took credit for the dismantling of the group in that area, claiming to have killed more than 150 ISIS fighters and arrested 130.
"There is no place for them [ISIS] in the future of Afghanistan," said General Nicholson.
A UK report on youth social media habits commissioned by advocacy group Volteface found a quarter of young people were exposed to illegal drug dealers on social media.
The poll of 2,006 people aged 16-24 assessed their exposure to drug dealers online in a nationally representative survey.
Of those admitting to seeing drugs for sale online, 56 per cent saw them advertised on Snapchat, 55 per cent on Instagram and 47 per cent on Facebook.
Cannabis was the drug most pushed by online dealers, with 63 per cent of survey respondents claiming to have seen adverts on social media for the drug, followed by cocaine (26 per cent) and MDMA/ecstasy, with 24 per cent of people.
SolarWinds supply chain attack:Came to light in December 2020 but had taken root for several months, compromising major tech companies, governments and its entities
Microsoft Exchange server exploitation:March 2021; attackers used a vulnerability to steal emails
Kaseya attack:July 2021; ransomware hit perpetrated REvil, resulting in severe downtime for more than 1,000 companies
Log4j breach:December 2021; attackers exploited the Java-written code to inflitrate businesses and governments
Name:Dr Hassan Mohsen Elhais
Position:legal consultant with Al Rowaad Advocates and Legal Consultants.
Director: Shady AliCast: Boumi Fouad , Mohamed Tharout and Hisham IsmaelRating: 3/5
Tests46; Runs2,103; Best166; Average32.85; 100s6; 50s8; Wickets42; Best4-47
A letter from the EU to the UK: our future partnership will be based on existing links and shared beliefs
Europe must continue pledging its support for the Syrian people
Name:Hassan Mohsen Elhais
Position:legal consultant with Al Rowaad Advocates and Legal Consultants.
Starring:Kareena Kapoor Khan, Ash Tandon, Prabhleen Sandhu
Director:Hansal Mehta
Rating:4 / 5
Engine: 1.5-litre turbo
Power: 181hp
Torque: 230Nm
Transmission: 6-speed automatic
Starting price: Dh79,000
On sale: Now

Title: Threat of ISIS to Afghanistan and the region - Daily Times
Daily Times
Your right to knowTuesday, September 24, 2024
Perspectives
The ISIS has an international agenda and the Taliban have domestic agendas only. Hence, now, Pakistan, Iran, CARs, Russia and China are in favour of supporting intra Afghan dialogue with the Taliban, and even the US has agreed to become a part of the dialogue
Col (R) Muhammad Hanif
October 5, 2018
The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), also called IS-Khorasan (IS-K), made itsentry into Afghanistanon January 2015. Initially, the IS-K comprised of some defectors from the Afghan Taliban and some from Pakistani Taliban, who had fled to Afghanistan, to escape from the Zarb-I-Azb operation of the Pakistan Army, and a merging of other factions from Afghanistan, who had pledged allegiance to the ISIS.
Later, the group was joined by some other factions of Afghanistan, the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) and the ISIS, that was suffering from a reversal in Iraq and Levant.
On April 2015, the IS-Ks’ presence was detected in the north-eastern Afghan provinces of Kunar and Nangarhar as the IS-K started attacking targets in the province. The Taliban began their offensive against the IS-K fighters in the Nangarhar province, as they are against ISIS presence in Afghanistan. Afterwards, the US and Afghan forces also attacked the IS-K. These operations have been going on intermittently since June 2015, and the Taliban have been limiting the IS-Ks’ ability to hold ground.
Although the IS-K has been suffering losses due to the Taliban operations, and the US bombing, they still have steady number because of reinforcements from the fleeing ISIS members from Iraq and Syria. After getting shot down by the Taliban in one province the IS-K goes to other provinces, where it finds space. Currently, it has made its presence known in the Farah and Helmand provinces.
The Independent (UK), on September 3, 2018, reported that “the IS-K in Afghanistan has gathered strength as the US military estimates that IS-K has around 2,000 fighters, although the IS-Ks’ grip on Afghanistan has been weakened by the killing of its country head, Abu Sayed Orakzai.” However, the Military Times, USA, wrote on 26 March 2018, that “According to our data, the IS presence in northeastern Afghanistan is rather serious, having thousands of gunmen”.
According to the foreign media, since April 2015, till 9 September 2018, the IS-K has launched a total of 72 suicide and other attacks in Afghanistan, including 2 attacks in 2015, 10 attacks in 2016, 20 attacks in 2017, and 40 attacks in 2018; with almost 28 suicide bombings conducted in Kabul. Around 14 attacks were conducted in Kabul in from September till 2018, this indicates that IS-K is still a potent threat to Afghanistan’s stability.
Although the IS-K has been suffering losses due to the Taliban operations, and the US bombing, they still have steady number because of reinforcements from the fleeing ISIS members from Iraq and Syria. After getting shot down by the Taliban in one province, the IS-K goes to other provinces where it successfully finds space
Furthermore, in another report, Iran warned Pakistan to be careful because of the relocation of the Islamic State, in the border region shared between Pakistan and Afghanistan. As published by theVoice of America(VOA), Middle East Chapter, on 12 March 2018, Iran accused the United States of helping the Islamic State militants in Afghanistan to fuel regional terrorism.
In light of the above discussed situation, Afghanistan’s neighbours and other regional countries think that a firm hold of the IS-K in Afghanistan would be more dangerous than the Taliban for the stability of Afghanistan and other regions. The ISIS has an international agenda and the Taliban have domestic agendas only. Hence, now, Pakistan, Iran, CARs, Russia and China are in favour of supporting intra Afghan dialogue with the Taliban, and even the US has agreed to become a part of the dialogue. Therefore, it is suggested that all the regional countries and extra-regional powers, who have a stake in Afghanistan should support the dialogue, and countries who have leverage with the Taliban should help in making the dialogue sustainable and successful.
The writer is an ex-Army Colonel, a former Research Fellow of Islamabad Policy Research Institute (IPRI), Islamabad and Senior Research Fellow, Strategic Vision Institute, Islamabad]. He can be reached at hanifsardar@hotmail.com
Published in Daily Times, October 5th2018.




More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category

HomeLead StoriesLatest NewsEditor’s Picks
CultureLife & StyleFeaturedVideos
EditorialsOP-EDSCommentaryAdvertise
CartoonsLettersBlogsPrivacy Policy
ContactCompany’s FinancialsInvestor InformationTerms & Conditions
FacebookTwitterInstagramYoutube
Copyright © 2024 Daily TimesWebsite Developed ByDaily Times Developers

Title: No title found


Title: Taliban Attempting to Outdo US in Fighting ISIS in Afghanistan | The Epoch Times
Friends Read Free
KHOGYANI, Afghanistan—The Taliban have resumed their fight against ISIS in Afghanistan, showing that eliminating the local chapter of the terrorist group isn’t just a goal of the United States.
Meanwhile, locals are concerned about both insurgent groups.
The clashes are taking place in Wazir Tangi, an area located in the mountains that straddle the Afghan–Pakistani border in the district of Khogyani in the eastern Afghan province of Nangarhar.
The Taliban, who controlled almost all of Afghanistan in the years prior to the toppling of their regime in the wake of the 9/11 terrorist attacks, have been fighting the local chapter of ISIS—which remains confined to several small pockets—since around the time of the group’s inception in 2015.
Zabihullah Mujahid, the official Taliban spokesman, claimed on Oct. 3 that the Taliban had cleared about half of Wazir Tangi from ISIS control, and that operations continue in the other half. This was however contested by Mohammad Ayub Bahor, the deputy district governor of Khogyani.
“The Taliban advanced a little, but the majority of Wazir Tangi is still held by Daesh,” Bahor told The Epoch Times on Oct. 2 in Kaga, the district center of Khogyani. Daesh is a derogatory Arabic term that refers to ISIS and is also used in Afghanistan.
Malek Gul Shirin, who hails from Wazir Tangi and commands a group of local vigilantes that man some outposts at the beginning of Wazir Tangi, said the situation can’t be evaluated accurately.
“The fighting takes place far away from our outposts and we don’t have exact information,” he said.
Given that virtually all local residents from Wazir Tangi fled a long time ago, there are no independent sources that could verify what happens there. Taliban propaganda only mentions the battles in Wazir Tangi to a limited extent, which may suggest that things aren’t going as well for the Taliban as in Jowzjan in July.
Further obscuring the situation are allegations about U.S. airstrikes. The Taliban openly accuse U.S. Forces–Afghanistan of supporting ISIS, for example by targeting Taliban fighters, when they attack ISIS. This fuels conspiracy theories, according to which ISIS is a secret U.S. project, that are believed by many Afghans, including well-educated ones.
Such theories are not only contradicted by U.S. assertions to defeat ISIS and statements from Gul Shirin and Bahor, but also by numerous U.S. airstrikes and raids targeting ISIS in Afghanistan.
In fact, reports indicated that on Sept. 30–i.e. during the recent clashes between Taliban and ISIS in Wazir Tangi–a U.S. drone strike killed 21 ISIS fighters there. This was contested by Mujahid however, who asserted that Taliban–and not ISIS fighters–were hit. Neither account could be verified.
“It is not clear, whether airstrikes [in Wazir Tangi] kill more Daeshis or more Taliban; but they do kill both,” said Gul Shirin.
In general, the men from Khogyani did not attach much importance to the differentiation between the Taliban and ISIS.
“Our sources said that the recent U.S. drone strike killed Daeshis; but even if it had been Taliban, it would make no difference–both of them are our enemies and we fight them,” deputy district governor Bahor said.
Gul Shirin also echoed this: “At the moment, our outposts at the beginning of Wazir Tangi are not under pressure. But we are worried that–in case the aerial bombardments should be ceased–it will become dangerous. We only have our Kalashnikovs, while the Taliban and Daesh have rockets and heavy weapons,” he added, implying that the local uprising is concerned about any insurgent group that might emerge victorious from the current clashes.
Asked about whether they would fear the Taliban or ISIS more, Gul Shirin simply replied: “They are both dangerous.”

Title: India IS: IS ‘recruit’ held in Afghanistan's US facility deported to India - The Economic Times
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Java Programming with ChatGPT: Learn using Generative AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Basics of Generative AI : Unveiling Tomorrow's Innovations
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Generative AI for Dynamic Java Web Applications with ChatGPT
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Mastering C++ Fundamentals with Generative AI: A Hands-On
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Master in Python Language Quickly Using the ChatGPT Open AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Zero to Hero in Microsoft Excel: Complete Excel guide 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Astrology
Vastu Shastra Course
By - Sachenkumar Rai, Vastu Shashtri
Data Science
SQL for Data Science along with Data Analytics and Data Visualization
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Web Development
A Comprehensive ASP.NET Core MVC 6 Project Guide for 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Mastering Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and 365
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Marketing
Digital marketing - Wordpress Website Development
By - Shraddha Somani, Digital Marketing Trainer, Consultant, Strategiest and Subject Matter expert
Web Development
Mastering Full Stack Development: From Frontend to Backend Excellence
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Finance
Financial Literacy i.e Lets Crack the Billionaire Code
By - CA Rahul Gupta, CA with 10+ years of domain experience, trainer
Leadership
Business Storytelling Masterclass
By - Ameen Haque, Founder of Storywallahs
Marketing
Future of Marketing & Branding Masterclass
By - Dr. David Aaker, Professor at Haas School of Business
HR
Human Potential and the Future of Employment
By - Lynda Gratton, Co-chair of the World Economic Forum Council on Work, Wages and Job Creation, Professor of Management Practice
Strategy
ESG and Business Sustainability Strategy
By - Vipul Arora, Partner, ESG & Climate Solutions at Sattva Consulting Author I Speaker I Thought Leader
Finance
Financial Reporting and Analytics
By - Dr. C.P. Gupta, Professor: Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi
(Catch all theBusiness News,Breaking News,Budget 2024Events andLatest NewsUpdates onThe Economic Times.)
Subscribe toThe Economic Times Primeand read theET ePaperonline.
(Catch all theBusiness News,Breaking News,Budget 2024Events andLatest NewsUpdates onThe Economic Times.)
Subscribe toThe Economic Times Primeand read theET ePaperonline.

Flyers are denied free airport lounge access. The behind the scenes that led to it.
In the new world trade order, is narrative shifting from profits to wages?
Alcobev firms undergo a hangover in Q1 FY25 despite premium push
8 things India should know about Pakistan’s new spy chief
A 98% haircut for SUUTI in Modern Syntex resolution plan raises eyebrows
Can BookMyShow’s Coldplay mess be Zomato’s big ticket opportunity?
US backs India, Japan & Germany for UNSC permanent seats
'Don’t make a mockery of our sentiments...'
A bird may sing in Kabul, but a girl may not: Meryl Streep
PM Modi caps his US trip with a meeting with Zelenskyy
Israel targets Hezbollah missiles buried in civilian buildings
MUDA scam case: K'taka HC's big jolt to CM Sidda
Iran seeks a world free of nuclear weapons: Pezeshkian
K'taka mandates Urdu proficiency for Anganwadi teachers' posts
Hugs, diplomacy, Bonhomie! Highlights from PM Modi’s US visit
Iron Dome Defends Israel from Hezbollah Rockets
Hot on Web
In Case you missed it
Top Searched Companies
Top Calculators
Top Definitions
Top Commodities
Top Slideshow
Private Companies
Top Prime Articles
Top Story Listing
Latest News
Follow us on:
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Reason for reporting:
Your Reason has been Reported to the admin.
Log In/Connect with:
Will be displayed
Will not be displayed
Will be displayed
Stories you might be interested in

Title: Islamic State Kills 13, Wounds 30 at Afghan Election Rally
The Islamic State (ISIS/ISIL) branch in Afghanistan claimed responsibility for Tuesday’s suicide bombing at an election rally in the eastern Afghan province of Nangarhar, home to the terrorist group’s most prominent stronghold in the region.
According to various media accounts, the Islamic State attack killed up to 14 people and wounded more than 30 others.
“A suicide bomber attacked an election rally on Tuesday in the eastern Afghan province of Nangarhar, killing at least 14 people and once again highlighting security concerns as candidates prepare for an Oct. 20 parliamentary vote amid a raging war,” theNew York Times (NYT)noted.
The attackerreportedlytargeted an election campaign event organized by parliamentary candidate Nasir Momand.
“Elders were speaking at the meeting when there was suddenly a huge blast,” said Sayed Humayoun, who had been at the rally in Nangarhar’s Kama district, outside the provincial capital Jalalabad, according toReuters.
“I was knocked unconscious but when I opened my eyes there were bodies scattered all around the blast area,” he said, adding that he could see scores of people dead and injured.
The campaigning season began on Friday and officials have warned of an increase in terrorist attacks during the elections.
Reuters reported:
The parliamentary election, delayed by three years, comes amid rising violence nationwide. Attaullah Khogyani, spokesman for the provincial governor in Nangarhar, said at least 13 bodies were taken to hospitals, but others said the toll was likely to be higher … Around 250 people had been at the rally, said Sohrab Qaderi, a member of the provincial council, adding that at least 30 were killed and dozens more wounded.
ISIS reportedly claimed it was behind the attack in a statement carried by its Amaq news agency.
According to the U.S. military, Nangarhar province houses ISIS’s top stronghold in South Asia.
In June, Brig. Gen. Lance R. Bunch, the top U.S. air commander in Afghanistan,notedthat the ISIS has repeatedly attempted to “establish” its own “caliphate” in Nangarhar, located along the Pakistan border.
The ISIS branch in Afghanistan, known as the Khorasan Province (ISIS-K), is believed to have 1,000 fighters in the region, down from a peak of 3,000, Voice of America (VOA)reportedin August.
According to areportfrom the United Nations Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) issued in June, ISIS-K was behind more than 50 percent of civilian casualties in the war-ravaged country through the first half of 2018.
The National Consortium for the Study of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism (START), an assessment of worldwide terrorist activity oftencitedby the U.S. State Department, listed ISIS-K among the top ten deadliest terrorist group’s in the world last year.
Citing the Independent Election Commission, Al Jazeerareportedthat terrorists have killed five candidates so far, warning that “there are fears violence will escalate.”
“More than 2,500 candidates will contest the ballot, which is seen as a test run for next year’s presidential election,” the news outlet noted.
“Some 54,000 members of Afghanistan’s security forces will be responsible for protecting more than 5,000 polling centers on election day. More than 2,000 polling centers that were supposed to open will be closed for security reasons,” Al Jazeera added.
Pleaselet us knowif you're having issues with commenting.




Copyright © 2024 Breitbart

Title: No title found


Title: Afghanistan: 42 Taliban militants killed in ANSF operation
FILE PHOTO
In Afghanistan, at least 42 Taliban militants have been killed while 40 others wounded during Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) operations in Nangarhar, Kunar, Nuristan and Kabul provinces.
During the operation weapons and explosives were also seized from the Taliban.

Title: Afghanistan: 57 Insurgents Killed by Afghanistan National Security Forces | LatestLY
Kabul, October 07:At least 57 armed insurgents have been killed by Afghanistan National Security Forces (ANSF) in the past 24 hours in various parts of the country, the Afghan Ministry of Defense (MoD) confirmed on Saturday.Afghanistan: Four Taliban Commanders Killed in Farah Drone Strikes.
The ministry stated that at least eight others were injured during the ground and air strikes conducted in as many as 15 different provinces of the country, Tolo News reported.US Drone Strikes kill 11 ISIS Militants in Afghanistan.
The operations were carried out in the provinces of Kunar, Helmand, Baghlan, Kandahar, Nangarhar, Herat, Ghazni, Badakhshan, Urozgan, Nimroz, Paktia, Faryab, Khost, Sar-e-Pul and Logar.
The MoD further stated that enemy shelters and weapons were also destroyed during air strikes conducted in the province of Farah. The ministry, however, abstained from providing details on civilian or security force casualties.
Meanwhile, the US Defence Department on Saturday revealed the identity of the soldier who died from an improvised explosive device (IED) blast in the Helmand province on Thursday as being 23-year-old James A. Slape, a resident of Morehead City, North Carolina. Slape was part of the 60th Troop Command of the North Carolina Army National Guard of Washington, North Carolina.
(This is an unedited and auto-generated story from Syndicated News feed, LatestLY Staff may not have modified or edited the content body)
Copyright ©Latestly.comAll Rights Reserved.

Title: 57 insurgents killed by Afghanistan National Security Forces in past 24 hours
Kabul:At least 57 armed insurgents have been killed by Afghanistan National Security Forces (ANSF) in the past 24 hours in various parts of the country, the Afghan Ministry of Defense (MoD) confirmed on Saturday. The ministry stated that at least eight others were injured during the ground and air strikes conducted in as many as 15 different provinces of the country, Tolo News reported.
The operations were carried out in the provinces of Kunar, Helmand, Baghlan, Kandahar, Nangarhar, Herat, Ghazni, Badakhshan, Urozgan, Nimroz, Paktia, Faryab, Khost, Sar-e-Pul and Logar. The MoD further stated that enemy shelters and weapons were also destroyed during air strikes conducted in the province of Farah. The ministry, however, abstained from providing details on civilian or security force casualties.
Meanwhile, the US Defence Department on Saturday revealed the identity of the soldier who died from an improvised explosive device (IED) blast in the Helmand province on Thursday as being 23-year-old James A. Slape, a resident of Morehead City, North Carolina. Slape was part of the 60th Troop Command of the North Carolina Army National Guard of Washington, North Carolina.
Watch Times NowLIVE TVfor latest and breaking news fromIndiaand around theworld.

Title: Afghanistan: National security forces kill 57 insurgents in 24 hours; eight others injured in ground and air strikes – Firstpost
The Afghanistan MoD further stated that enemy shelters and weapons were also destroyed during air strikes conducted in the province of Farah. The ministry, however, abstained from providing details on civilian or security force casualties.
Kabul:At least 57 armed insurgents have been killed by Afghanistan National Security Forces (ANSF) in the past 24 hours in various parts of the country, the Afghan Ministry of Defense (MoD) confirmed on Saturday.
The ministry stated that at least eight others were injured during the ground and air strikes conducted in as many as 15 different provinces of the country,Tolo Newsreported.
The operations were carried out in the provinces of Kunar, Helmand, Baghlan, Kandahar, Nangarhar, Herat, Ghazni, Badakhshan, Urozgan, Nimroz, Paktia, Faryab, Khost, Sar-e-Pul and Logar.
The MoD further stated that enemy shelters and weapons were also destroyed during air strikes conducted in the province of Farah. The ministry, however, abstained from providing details on civilian or security force casualties.
Meanwhile, the US Defence Department on Saturday revealed the identity of the soldier who died from an improvised explosive device (IED) blast in the Helmand province on Thursday as being 23-year-old James A Slape, a resident of Morehead City, North Carolina. Slape was part of the 60th Troop Command of the North Carolina Army National Guard of Washington, North Carolina.
Find us on YouTube
is on YouTube
Copyright @ 2024. Firstpost - All Rights Reserved

Title: US, Pakistan fail to break Afghanistan impasse – DW – 10/03/2018
The US continues to demand more commitment from Islamabad on the Afghan peace process. The new Pakistani government shows willingness but has yet to act conclusively. Anwar Iqbal reports from Washington.
On Tuesday, Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi met with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and national security advisor John Bolton in an attempt to revive relations between the two countries amid tensions involving Afghanistan, the resurgence of the Taliban andthe US cutting off Pakistan's military aid.
In September,the first round of US-Pakistan talkswas held in Islamabad, during which Secretary Pompeo expressed the desire to "reset" a rapidly deteriorating relationship between the two countries, while urging Pakistan to stop cross-border attacks into Afghanistan if it wants better relations with the US.
According to a statement released by the Pakistani embassy in Washington after the Tuesday meeting, Pompeo and Qureshi "agreed that the time was ripe for the Afghan Taliban to avail the opportunity for a political settlement by seizing the opportunity for dialogue."
Another statement, issued after Qureshi's meeting with Bolton, said that "Pakistan would continue to support the efforts for an Afghan-owned and Afghan-led peace and reconciliation process in Afghanistan."
The statement also underlined Pakistan's desire to revive a structured dialogue with the US that has remained suspended since February 2016.
"Going forward, a broad-based and structured framework for dialogue would best serve the two countries' shared interests," Qureshi reportedly told Pompeo.
"He reiterated Pakistan's support for a political settlement in Afghanistan, noting that the use of force had failed to deliver results," the official statement added.
US wants more on Afghanistan
While the US acknowledges Pakistan's verbal support for the Afghan peace process, it also complains that Islamabad does not match its words with action and allows militants – particularly the Pakistan-based Haqqani Network – to launch cross-border attacks into Afghanistan.
Qureshi said that peace in South Asia, which is a common goal of both the US and Pakistan, "would remain elusive until all disputes, including the core dispute of Jammu and Kashmir, were resolved."
The US acknowledges the need for a peaceful resolution of all India-Pakistan disputes but says that Washington can only play a role in promoting peace between the two nuclear-armed states if both ask it to do so. India rejects any external mediation in its disputes with Pakistan.
According to the Pakistani statement, at the end of the meeting, Pakistan and the US "agreed to remain engaged with a view to achieving their shared bilateral and regional objectives."
Diplomatic circles in Washington interpreted this as indicating that both sides have agreed to continue with talks but that key issues remain unresolved after Tuesday's meetings.
"Qureshi's body language showed that he was under pressure," said Faiz Rehman, a former head of Voice of America (VOA) Urdu, who now contributes to various think tanks as a South Asian affairs analyst. Rehman also noted that while Americans had not yet commented on the meetings, the Pakistan Embassy "issued a very routine and probably just a re-hashed statement from a previous meeting."
In previous statements, US officials have indicated that they want Pakistan to support their efforts to ensure the continuity of the current setup in Kabul. To ensure this continuity, the US has invited the Taliban to participate in this setup through the Afghan peace process and wants Pakistan to persuade the Taliban to do so.
Read more:Why Taliban won't make peace with Kabul

Regional issues
The Americans also believe that there can be no peace in Afghanistan as long as India and Pakistan continue to fight for influence in that country. According to some sources, China's role in South Asia, particularly its growing influence in Pakistan, was one of the topics discussed at the two meetings.
Read more:India and Pakistan clash in UN over terror support
The new Pakistani government headed by Prime Minister Imran Khan is believed to have reassured American negotiators that they do want to play a positive role in Afghanistan and would do whatever they could to persuade the Taliban to join the Afghan reconciliation process. But Pakistani officials also think there is the need for the US to address their concerns too, particularly about India's growing influence in Afghanistan.
Read more:How would the US deal with a 'Prime Minister Imran Khan'?
The US can play a role in restarting India-Pakistan talks, although pressure on the eastern border could dilute Pakistan's focus on the western border, where it has deployed hundreds of thousands of troops for combating the Taliban and other terror outfits.
Pakistani officials also explained why the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, a Beijing-led multi-billion dollar initiative, was important for Pakistan's progress.
Read more:Pakistan's bailout becomes a pawn in US-China tensions
Media reports had claimed that Islamabad and Washington would discuss a possible prisoner-exchange — Shakil Afridi for Aafia Siddiqui – but so far neither side has confirmed or denied these claims.
Michael Kugelman, a senior associate at the Washington-based Woodrow Wilson Center, told DW that such an exchange is unlikely. "Trump is keen to get Afridi released, and Pakistan may be inclined to release him. But it would likely want something in return," he said, adding that it would be doubtful that the Trump administration would swap Aafia Siddiqui."


Title: The Haqqani secret | The Indian Express
The grand old man of Afghan jihad, Jalaluddin Haqqani, died on September 3, 2018. The Afghan Taliban who announced his death, due to old age and poor health, said he died inside Afghanistan. The world outside may not believe it. He could have died hidden somewhere in North Waziristan in Pakistan’s Tribal Areas, according to some. His contribution to violence in Afghanistan was his Haqqani Network, run by his sons, all declared terrorists by the United States, except Jalaluddin himself. He was among the Pashtun darlings of the US when he fought the Soviets, but after 9/11 he was the most feared enemy.
He was charismatic and his Network was revered because it embodied the deep combination of religiosity and violence Muslims can’t resist. He took the name Haqqani from the seminary in Peshawar, Madrassa Haqqania, where he did so well with his Arabic that he started speaking colloquial Arabic fluently and got close to the Arabs doing jihad with American and Saudi money. One of his sons finally married into the ruling clans of the United Aran Emirates. (Anas Haqqani is from an Arab second wife of Jalaluddin.) He got close to Osama bin Laden and facilitated his various clandestine residences in Pakistan. One of his “handlers”, the chief of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) General Hamid Gul, was slavish in his allegiance to him.
In an interview given to the London-based Arab journal Asharq Al-Awsat (April 2009), he (Gul) revealed the deep psychological origin of his hating and loving America, highlighting “the psychological problems among the officers who dealt with the Americans on the one hand and the Afghan warlords on the other as partners in Afghanistan, and their ultimate break with the post-9/11 decisions made in Islamabad”. He said: “The Taliban are fighting to avenge what took place in Pakistan following the 11 September 2001 attacks, especially those (Taliban) fighting to avenge what happened during the military operation that was carried out by Pakistan army in Lal Masjid in Islamabad (which caused al Qaeda to announce the formation of the Pakistani Taliban). Who are these Taliban, who apparently went to Afghanistan after 9/11 to fight the Americans and then got offended with the Lal Masjid operation in 2007 and turned on Pakistan?”
In Asharq Al-Awsat interview, Gul said that he sent his two sons to jihad against the Soviet forces and they fought alongside Jalaluddin Haqqani’s men. Gul asserted in what can be called key to understanding the deeply conflicted mind of the Pakistan army’s officer class: “I am a retired official but the al Qaeda Afghan elements — Abdul Rasul Sayyaf, Karzai, and others — are against Pakistan, but they are my friends”.
The 2007 Lal Masjid operation by the Pakistan army under General Pervez Musharraf was provoked by clear evidence that the mosque had become a gathering point of al Qaeda and Taliban terrorists. Its power over Islamabad was palpable and was replacing the power of the state, choosing to attack and punish people it considered “sinful”. The most powerful religious leaders of Pakistan had stood behind its vigilante terror. Some day, Pakistan will understand that Lal Masjid was the underside of Pakistan’s Taliban policy of “strategic depth”.
Then in 2009, the Haqqani Network began to be linked to Pakistan more disturbingly. The US intelligence agencies “apparently” intercepted messages in which Pakistani army chief General Kayani referred to Afghan militant commander Jalaluddin Haqqani as a “strategic asset” operating in the border areas between Khost province in Afghanistan and North Waziristan agency of Pakistan.
Serious “misunderstanding” between Pakistan and the US occurred when one hideout of Osama bin Laden was understood by the latter to be a Haqqani-Pakistan project: The Bin Laden camp targeted by US cruise missiles in August 1998 on the border between Afghanistan and Pakistan, was “built by Pakistani contractors, funded by Pakistan’s ISI Directorate and protected under the patronage of a local and influential Jadran tribal leader, Jalaluddin Haqqani”.
In February 2016, US drones killed five Haqqani Network terrorists likewise in Hangu taking time off from their depredations in Khost, Paktika and Logar provinces in Afghanistan in addition to the capital, Kabul. In 2013, the drones killed a commander of the Network again in Hangu after Pakistan had arrested and released him in 2010 along with other senior members of the infamous Quetta Shura of the Afghan Taliban. Hangu, it develops, is a mustering point of the Network considered the real mover and shaker of the Afghan Taliban that now controls more than half of the Afghan provinces.
The writer is consulting editor, Newsweek Pakistan
How Marxist Anura Kumara Dissanayake won Sri Lanka’s PresidencySubscriber Only
Sound of guns is normal: No rest for village onSubscriber Only
Why AAP chose Atishi: How it gives party chance toSubscriber Only
PM Modi in US: What is the Quad grouping?
UPSC Key | Takeaways of Quad Summit, Joint Commanders’ Conference,Subscriber Only
17 years on, kidnap victim gives closing argument in ownSubscriber Only
If we still have a Kashmir problem, it’s because ofSubscriber Only
100 years of the discovery of the Indus CivilisationSubscriber Only
India’s data centre ambitions will have to go through Malaysia,Subscriber Only
Sanjeev Kumar, a talented actor, had a passion for food and even rented a house to satisfy his love for non-vegetarian dishes. Fellow actors Shammi Kapoor, Shatrughan Sinha, and Randhir Kapoor would often join him for late-night feasts. Sachin Pilgaonkar revealed this in a recent interview, highlighting Sanjeev's love for food and his bond with his colleagues.



Title: MSN


Title: Pakistan appoints new head of powerful intelligence agency | News | Al Jazeera
Lieutenant-General Asim Munir will take over from outgoing ISI chief Lieutenant-General Naveed Mukhtar, says military.
Islamabad, Pakistan– Pakistan has appointed a new chief for its powerful intelligence agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), as the previous appointee completed his term, the military said.
Lieutenant-General Asim Munir will take over from the outgoing ISI chief Lieutenant-General Naveed Mukhtar, the military’s press wing said in a briefstatementreleased on Wednesday.




Munir, who was promoted late last month, previously served as the head of Military Intelligence.
A decorated army officer, Munir has previously commanded Pakistani forces in the northern district of Gilgit-Baltistan.
The Pakistani military and ISI, the Pakistani intelligence service tasked with external operations, has long been accused by theUnited Statesand regional rivalIndiaof only taking selective action against armed groups, a charge Pakistan has consistently denied.
The US has accused the ISI of backing the AfghanTalibanand Haqqani Network in the war against Afghan and NATO forces in neighbouringAfghanistan.
In 2011, then US military chief Admiral Mike Mullentermedthe Haqqani Network “a veritable arm” of the ISI.




In 2016, Afghan Taliban chief Mullah Akhtar Mansour waskilledin a US drone attack while travelling in the southwestern Pakistani province of Balochistan.
Relations between the erstwhile allies have been rocky since US President Trump cut more than $1.1bn in security assistance to the country,accusingPakistan of “[having] given us nothing but lies & deceit”.
In July, Prime MinisterImran Khan‘s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party took the reins of power in the country after a general election, vowing to renegotiate its relationships with regional and international powers based on “mutual respect”.
Since then, top Pakistani and US officials have met several times. Last month, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo visitedPakistanfor talks both sides said were fruitful. Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi reciprocated the visit earlier this month.
On Tuesday, Qureshi met newly appointed US envoy on Afghan reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad in Islamabad.
“[Khalilzad] consulted with Pakistani leaders on how best to achieve a durable political settlement in Afghanistan,” said a US statement. “Special Representative Khalilzad reiterated that peace in Afghanistan is vital to the long-term stability of Pakistan and the wider region.”
Pakistan has repeatedly stressed its desire for a politically negotiated settlement to hostilities in Afghanistan, where the Afghan Taliban and its allies have been battling US-led NATO forces for more than 17 years.
Lieutenant-General Munir, as the new chief of the ISI, will be expected to play an active role in facilitating that process.









Follow Al Jazeera English:

Title: No title found
