Title: 
            Top US negotiator in Kabul to brief Afghan government
          
US
Zalmay Khalilzad's visit comes after meetings with the Taliban in Pakistan
COMMENTS
Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive.
For more information, please see ourComments FAQ
Ryan Murphy responds to Erik Menendez's criticism of Netflix's 'Monsters: The Lyle and Erik Menendez Story’
This news follows reports that Kim is becoming increasingly worried about Kanye’s recent behavior.
Fans react as Meek Mill declares, 'I wanna hire an investigative team,' offering $100K to clear his name in Diddy case
TikToker Jacob Savage faces controversy after alleged explicit video of him cheating with ex Rachel Weaver goes viral.
Trump vows to call Xi Jinping to enforce trade deal if re-elected
Zelensky favours Democrats in 2024 US election: Donald Trump
Images show massive crater from Russia's apparently failed ICBM test
Idaho man charged with threatening to kill Trump in calls to Mar-a-Lago
Outrage after woman sexually assaulted at police station in India's Odisha
Donald Trump surprises Pennsylvania mom with grocery gift of $100
Increasing Commercial Confidence through Meditation
Future of higher education
TAPI progression and prospect of Pakistan-Iran gas pipeline
Understanding constitutional package: a logical approach
Pakistan-BD proximity and scepticism in India
Bharat and the idea of India
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
redistributed or derived from. Unless otherwise stated, all content is
copyrighted © 2024 The Express Tribune.

Title: The US Bombing Campaign in Afghanistan at Highest Level in 9 Years - Business Insider
As peace negotiations between the Taliban and US unraveled, the US dramatically ramped up its air campaign against militants in Afghanistan.
According to US Air Forces Central Command, US aircraft dropped 948 munitions in Afghanistan during the month of September.
That's the highest number of munitions dropped for a single month since October 2010 — near the height of America's involvement in the 18-year long war. In October 2010, according to figures provided by AFCENT, US and coalition aircraft dropped roughly 1,043 munitions.
The US had nearly 100,000 troops on the ground by October 2010, as part of then-President Barrack Obama's troop surge. Today, there are roughly 14,000 service members operating in Afghanistan.
The spike in bombs released show a dramatic escalation of American air power aimed at militants following the collapse of peace negotiations with the Taliban in early September. In August, the US dropped 783 munitions.
Secretary of Defense Mark Esper confirmed that the US had increased its attacks against the Taliban in an October 5 interview with reporters.
"We did step up our attacks on the Taliban since the talks broke down. You know, the president spoke about this publicly — we did pick up the pace considerably,"Espertold reporters in early October.
At aPentagon9/11 ceremony Trump said that the US was hitting the enemy in Afghanistan "harder than they have ever been hit before."
President Donald Trump ended negotiations with the Taliban in September following a suicide attack in Kabul that killed a US service member.
At the end of August and through early September, Taliban fighters launched brazen attacks against Kunduz and other urban centers across Afghanistan. The Taliban failed to capture any cities during the attacks, but a military official told Military Times that B-52s were postured to provide support if needed.
In September, Secretary of State Pompeo said nearly 1,000 Taliban fighters were killed over a 10-day period. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani estimated the Taliban lost nearly 2,000 fighters in its failed attempt to capture an Afghan city.
The Taliban still hold considerable sway over much of rural Afghanistan following their ouster from power in 2001.
The Associated Press reported that the Taliban met the US envoy for Afghanistan peace negotiations Zalmay Khalilzad on October 4 in Pakistan. It was the first meeting between the Taliban and the Khalilzad since peace talks ended.
Jump to

Title: Can China make peace between Kabul and Taliban? – DW – 10/27/2019
China has stepped up efforts to mediate in the Afghan conflict after US President Donald Trump called off Doha peace talks with the insurgent group in September. Could Beijing's influence on the Taliban be helpful?
Rival Afghan groups are going to hold talks in China in the coming days to discuss the possibility of a ceasefire in Afghanistan.
"China has invited a delegation ... to participate in the intra-Afghan dialogue," Suhail Shaheen, a Taliban spokesman in Doha, said on October 22.
The so-called intra-Afghan dialogue is aimed at reconciliation between the Taliban militant group and the Afghan government and has been running parallel to the talks between the insurgents and the US.
But the Taliban said the Afghan government officials would participate in the China talks in an unofficial capacity. The Islamist group does not recognize Afghanistan's elected government and refers to it as a "US puppet."
"All participants will be attending the meeting in their personal capacity and they will share their personal opinions for solving the Afghan issue," Shaheen said.
Taliban negotiators and Afghan officials have held talks in the past.
Read more:Explosion at Afghan mosque kills dozens
The stumbling block
Fresh intra-Afghan talks in China are deemed crucial as peace negotiations have stalled since President Donald Trump abruptly called off US-Taliban talks in Doha last month.
Read more:US-Taliban talks: DW reporters' firsthand account from Doha

It was a huge setback to Afghan peace efforts as US and Taliban negotiators went very close to agreeing to a deal.
Shaheen told DWin September that the Taliban had reached an agreement with the US in Doha. "We had finalized the document about how the agreement would be implemented … The US president's tweets took us by surprise. We still don't understand how the US can call off the deal that took months to negotiate and finalize. This move has undermined the US' credibility," Shaheen said.
Read more:Why did President Donald Trump call off Taliban talks?
China and Pakistan have since stepped up efforts to restart talks. Last month, a Taliban delegation met with China's special representatives for Afghanistan in Beijing.
"China has kept a close eye on the Afghan peace process for years," Horoon Mir, a Kabul-based Afghan analyst, told DW.
"China enjoys considerable influence on the Taliban through its close ally, Pakistan. Beijing has also established good ties with the Afghan politicians that back negotiations with the insurgent group," Mir added.
Read more:Afghan Taliban meet with Chinese officials after talks with US collapse
On Friday, representatives from Russia, China, the US and Pakistan agreed in Moscow that negotiations, including an early resumption of direct US talks with the Taliban, are the only way to peace in Afghanistan.

Experts say that the differences between the Taliban and Kabul are a major obstacle in achieving a political settlement in Afghanistan. Until these issues are not resolved, talks between Washington and the Taliban can't be fruitful.
For this reason, if the Chinese government can mediate between Afghanistan's rival groups, and force them to resolve their issues, the Washington-led talks to withdraw US troops from Afghanistan can resume and be even successful.
"If the Taliban are serious about peace talks, they should talk to the Afghan government," stressed Mir.
Read more:Will elections settle any of Afghanistan's problems?
Other reasons for China's involvement
China shares a short border with Afghanistan to its far-western region of Xinjiang. Beijing has long been worried about links between militant groups operating in Xinjiang, home to the Turkic-speaking mostly Muslim Uighur people.
"China is interested in the Afghan peace process also because of its domestic issues. China is concerned that Uighur insurgents in Xinjiang province are taking advantage of the Afghan conflict," Jawid Kohistani, an Afghan security analyst in Kabul, told DW.
Analyst Mir is of the view that Beijing is also interested in bringing Afghanistan into the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, a Eurasian political, economic, and security alliance created in 2001.
Kohistani also believes that China wants NATO and US forces out of Afghanistan so it could expand its economic influence in the region.
Experts say that more than any other country, there is a greater chance for China to bring all stakeholders to the negotiating table and push for a long-term solution to the 18-year-long Afghan conflict.
Read more:US to reduce troops in Afghanistan by 5,000
Additional reporting by Masood Saifullah.
Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.

Title: Pakistan-Taliban meet irks Afghanistan, questions legitimacy of meet | Republic World
Published 19:21 IST, October 3rd 2019
19:14 IST, October 3rd 2019
© 2024 Republic. All rights reserved.
Big Stories
Quick
Live TV
Video

Title: Three Indian Hostages Freed in Exchange for 11 Taliban Prisoners - Reports
Three Indian engineers held hostage for over a year have reportedly been swapped with 11 captive Taliban members, including some high-ranking members of the group.
The Taliban officials have refused to reveal who the militant group exchanged the prisoners with and whether the freedTaliban memberswere being held by Afghan authorities or US forces in Afghanistan.
According to multiple media reports, the freed Taliban members include Sheikh Abdur Rahim and Mawlawi Abdur Rashid; both served as governors of Kunar and Nimroz provinces during the Taliban administration before the US-led intervention in 2001.
The Indian daily, The Hindu, said this was the result of the ice-breaking meeting between theAfghan Taliban and US Special Representative for Afghanistan ReconciliationZalmay Khalilzad in Islamabad, Pakistan’s capital city.
The daily reported that the Afghan Taliban members were freed from the Bagram airbase, the largest US military base in Afghanistan, citing sources and speculating that the prisoner swap deal was done between the Taliban and the US.
Afghan authorities have not confirmed the release of the Indian engineers so far. Seven Indian engineers working for a power plant in Afghanistan’s Baghlan Province were kidnapped in May 2018.

Title: Peace in Afghanistan means Peace in Pakistan - Daily The Patriot
Syed Haider A. Gardezi
The U.S. invasion of Afghanistan began shortly after the
horrible September 11, 2001, attacks, however before the formal invasion, a
covert operations Unit, of the 5thSpecial Forces Group of the U.S.
Army landed in Afghanistan, with a mission to coordinate with the Northern
Alliance to launch a campaign against the Taliban regime. This mission has been
discussed in detail in the book ‘Horse Soldiers’ written by Doug Stanton.  This task force was given the mandate to
serve as advisors to the Northern Alliance Warlords, to coordinate with U.S.
Military and defense establishment and to call in air strikes in support of
advancing Northern Alliance forces.
A few weeks in to the invasion, the United States Coalition
and the Northern Alliance had toppled the Taliban regime, and Kabul was
secured. The Taliban had fled to the mountains, their command and control
infrastructure was destroyed and they were in military terms crippled. By
December 2001, it seemed that Taliban are history and U.S. Operations against
Al-qaeda terrorists and Afghan Taliban leaders were in full swing.  Meanwhile United States installed a regime to
govern Afghanistan under Hamid Karzai, which had a herculean task to rebuild
the institutions in Afghanistan from scratch.
By 2002, the Afghan Taliban had consolidated themselves, and
they made a comeback by stepping up operations against the U.S. and NATO forces
stationed in the country.  This is also
known as the resurgence of Taliban in Afghanistan. From here on, the U.S. and
NATO forces faced a tough resistance, and the Taliban which started off as hit
and run guerilla operations, had started capturing districts and announced
their De Facto government, calling themselves as the Islamic Emirate of
Afghanistan. This government was not just a name, but they established courts,
and administrative institutions, in the districts they controlled.  The locals also resorted to using these
institutions as they provided better services than the government institutions.
Hence a parallel shadow government of the Taliban has been operating in
Afghanistan ever since.
Karzai government went, Ghani Government was formed, the
Taliban kept on gaining momentum. The CIA and ISAF forces in Afghanistan
started using a litmus test for assessing their progress in the country, known
as the district maps. It consisted of Afghanistan with all districts marked on
it, and the regions colored as to where U.S. NATO and Afghan government were in
control, districts that were in Taliban control, and districts which were
contested areas, where there was a mixed government, or a fight to control it
was going on. These were the most popular maps for bureaucrats and high-ranking
Generals and officials in Washington as it laid out the picture simply and
clearly for them.  This was a problem for
the U.S. Forces fighting in Afghanistan as it undermined the complexity of
their war fighting effort, which was more complex than attacking capturing and
holding a district, only to hand it over to Afghan government, which was again
retaken by Taliban.
The Pashtun population of Afghanistan, is widely against the
foreign presence in the country and also against post invasion governments,
since they strongly believe that they are being discriminated against, in this
new form of system. Which is true, the Pashtun population, which forms the
major bulk of the ethnicities, is far away from power structures, as they do
not have equal representation in the national landscape, hence one of the
reasons why they prefer Taliban over the Afghan government.
Recently after Pakistan defeated the Indian sponsored
Pakistani Taliban (TTP), these terrorists fled to Afghanistan, where they
aligned themselves, with the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP). ISKP
recently surfaced in Afghanistan, and operates as a franchise of the global
Islamic State terrorist movement.  ISKP,
primarily operates against the Taliban. The Taliban often attack Indian
infrastructure in their country, and hence, some analysts have deduced that
ISKP might be working as a mercenary group for India. These terrorists have
also targeted Pakistani forces, by staging themselves in Afghanistan, all the
more reason to suspect Indian involvement in their operations.  The presence of Islamic State in Afghanistan
is a huge threat to Pakistani security and stability, as they have been
launching attacks on Pakistan from Afghanistan and we cannot afford to have
their footprint in our backyard.
The contemporary environment in Afghanistan is that Taliban
control majority of the districts, with many of them contested, as battles for
control between Afghan government forces and Taliban continues. Along with this
aspect of conflict the Taliban are also engaged in a brutal fight with the
ISKP, which is also contesting for control of various districts in eastern
Afghanistan. This is a cause of concern for Pakistan as well as it cannot
afford to have ISKP footprint especially in areas adjoining the Pakistan
Afghanistan border.
The political state of Afghanistan is very unstable. The
elections in the past, and the elections recently have been riddled with
accusations of corruption and misconduct, along with very low voter turnout,
since either Taliban do not allow elections to take place and the majority
Pashtun population does not come out to vote.
The question now arises, where is the war in Afghanistan
heading? This beautiful country has continuously seen war, conflict and unrest
for almost half a century now, and there is still no peace in sight. From a
realistic point of view, Afghanistan saw a very bright chance to establish
peace, in the recent negotiations between the Afghan Taliban and the United
States, facilitated by Pakistan, however, the sudden pulling out of President
Trump from these negotiations, moments before the Taliban delegation was to
meet Mr. President at camp David, served as a death sentence for the hope of
peace in Afghanistan.
Although some still believe that Pakistan can bring United
States, U.S. Government and Afghan Government back to the negotiating table,
and I pray that this is the case, however the chances of this happening anytime
soon are very thin. This is because United States cannot leave Afghanistan
until it reaches some sort of agreement with Pakistan that guarantees a role
for India in Afghanistan, since the new strategic partnership between United
States and India dictates it to do so. This is something that is unacceptable
to Pakistan since, having India in our backyard, is nothing short than a
strategic and security risk for us. Since India has been sponsoring terrorism
in Pakistan as a policy to keep Pakistan engaged and cause internal discord.
Moreover, certain lobbies in the United States do not want to pull out of
Afghanistan for certain capital and political gains.
This is one of the biggest challenges for Pakistan, to ensure
that the Afghanistan of the future does not remain a threat to its national
security. The future of Afghanistan depends on following things. Firstly, the
regime in Afghanistan, which should be as per the aspirations of the people of
Afghanistan. Secondly minimizing the role of hostile forces, including the
Indian sponsored ISKP and Baloch separatists, that have been carrying out
terrorist attacks across the border. Thirdly as Prime Minister Imran Khan has
repeatedly said, the inclusion of Afghan Taliban in the national political
landscape because they are a reality, and they have political capital in the
country, representing the largest ethnic group of Afghanistan. Peace in
Afghanistan is the only way forward, since Pakistan strongly believes without
peace in Afghanistan, there can be no peace in Pakistan.

The hearing on the appeal of the Election Commission of Pakistan (ECP) regarding the formation of election tribunals in Punjab...
© 2023DAILY PATRIOT-For the latest news updates from the Daily Patriot.
Download Our Apps
© 2023DAILY PATRIOT-For the latest news updates from the Daily Patriot.
Download Our Apps
Login to your account below


Remember Me

Fill the forms below to register



Please enter your username or email address to reset your password.



Title: Punjab issues alert RAW, NDS may attack Fazl
LAHORE: The Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) or the National Directorate of Security (NDS) can attack the ongoing Azadi March of the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam, targeting Maulana Fazlur Rehman in any part of Pakistan.According to an alert issued by the Provincial Intelligence Centre (PIC), the Home Department, Punjab, dated October 28, 2019 and titled “Threat Perception”, a copy of which is available with The News, it has been stated the Indian RAW and the Afghan NDS want to target Maulana Fazlur Rehman in the near future. For this purpose, they are making contacts with target-killing groups in Pakistan and offering $1 million for the assassination of Maulana.The Hizb-e-Islami Afghanistan (HIA) has tasked terrorists with exploiting the fragile security/political situation in the country. A huge amount of money was provided for the task. The terrorist activities will focus on bomb blast/suicide attack on the JUI-F procession/sit-ins.It has reliably been learnt that terrorists backed by the HIA have planned to target the JUI-F Azadi March. Miscreants are likely to infiltrate in the garb of protesters and reportedly attempt to launch an opportunistic attack. Moreover, the likely presence of young madrasa students may present both a target as well as an appearance to emulate for the prospective attackers. The impact of any terrorist activity in the midst of the march could be of enormous proportions. Reportedly, a suicide jacket for the purpose has been dispatched via Chaman border.It is learnt that the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) prompted by the HIA is planning to launch a terrorist attack during the Azadi March. The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has also planned to target the march. Terrorists are planning to take benefit of the potential rowdy mob by infiltrating in the garb of protesters.A copy of the alert has been forwarded to Maulana Amjad Khan, Ameer JUI-F, Punjab, to inform Maulana Fazlur Rehman not to allow unchecked persons to get close to him.
According to an alert issued by the Provincial Intelligence Centre (PIC), the Home Department, Punjab, dated October 28, 2019 and titled “Threat Perception”, a copy of which is available with The News, it has been stated the Indian RAW and the Afghan NDS want to target Maulana Fazlur Rehman in the near future. For this purpose, they are making contacts with target-killing groups in Pakistan and offering $1 million for the assassination of Maulana.The Hizb-e-Islami Afghanistan (HIA) has tasked terrorists with exploiting the fragile security/political situation in the country. A huge amount of money was provided for the task. The terrorist activities will focus on bomb blast/suicide attack on the JUI-F procession/sit-ins.It has reliably been learnt that terrorists backed by the HIA have planned to target the JUI-F Azadi March. Miscreants are likely to infiltrate in the garb of protesters and reportedly attempt to launch an opportunistic attack. Moreover, the likely presence of young madrasa students may present both a target as well as an appearance to emulate for the prospective attackers. The impact of any terrorist activity in the midst of the march could be of enormous proportions. Reportedly, a suicide jacket for the purpose has been dispatched via Chaman border.It is learnt that the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) prompted by the HIA is planning to launch a terrorist attack during the Azadi March. The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has also planned to target the march. Terrorists are planning to take benefit of the potential rowdy mob by infiltrating in the garb of protesters.A copy of the alert has been forwarded to Maulana Amjad Khan, Ameer JUI-F, Punjab, to inform Maulana Fazlur Rehman not to allow unchecked persons to get close to him.
The Hizb-e-Islami Afghanistan (HIA) has tasked terrorists with exploiting the fragile security/political situation in the country. A huge amount of money was provided for the task. The terrorist activities will focus on bomb blast/suicide attack on the JUI-F procession/sit-ins.It has reliably been learnt that terrorists backed by the HIA have planned to target the JUI-F Azadi March. Miscreants are likely to infiltrate in the garb of protesters and reportedly attempt to launch an opportunistic attack. Moreover, the likely presence of young madrasa students may present both a target as well as an appearance to emulate for the prospective attackers. The impact of any terrorist activity in the midst of the march could be of enormous proportions. Reportedly, a suicide jacket for the purpose has been dispatched via Chaman border.It is learnt that the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) prompted by the HIA is planning to launch a terrorist attack during the Azadi March. The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has also planned to target the march. Terrorists are planning to take benefit of the potential rowdy mob by infiltrating in the garb of protesters.A copy of the alert has been forwarded to Maulana Amjad Khan, Ameer JUI-F, Punjab, to inform Maulana Fazlur Rehman not to allow unchecked persons to get close to him.
It has reliably been learnt that terrorists backed by the HIA have planned to target the JUI-F Azadi March. Miscreants are likely to infiltrate in the garb of protesters and reportedly attempt to launch an opportunistic attack. Moreover, the likely presence of young madrasa students may present both a target as well as an appearance to emulate for the prospective attackers. The impact of any terrorist activity in the midst of the march could be of enormous proportions. Reportedly, a suicide jacket for the purpose has been dispatched via Chaman border.It is learnt that the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) prompted by the HIA is planning to launch a terrorist attack during the Azadi March. The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has also planned to target the march. Terrorists are planning to take benefit of the potential rowdy mob by infiltrating in the garb of protesters.A copy of the alert has been forwarded to Maulana Amjad Khan, Ameer JUI-F, Punjab, to inform Maulana Fazlur Rehman not to allow unchecked persons to get close to him.
It is learnt that the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) prompted by the HIA is planning to launch a terrorist attack during the Azadi March. The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has also planned to target the march. Terrorists are planning to take benefit of the potential rowdy mob by infiltrating in the garb of protesters.A copy of the alert has been forwarded to Maulana Amjad Khan, Ameer JUI-F, Punjab, to inform Maulana Fazlur Rehman not to allow unchecked persons to get close to him.
A copy of the alert has been forwarded to Maulana Amjad Khan, Ameer JUI-F, Punjab, to inform Maulana Fazlur Rehman not to allow unchecked persons to get close to him.
Some prisoners struggled to return to civilian life after their release
Iran shares a more than 900-kilometre border with Afghanistan
Economic Coordination Committee of Pakistan had already approved the export, facilitating the deal
Management of the institution has laid off 8 officers and employees to reduce administrative expenses
Both sides, it was learnt, were using heavy and automatic weapons during the skirmishes
Establishment Division has issued notification of the extension of suspension
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: Punjab issues alert: RAW, NDS may attack Fazl
LAHORE: The Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) or the National Directorate of Security (NDS) can attack the ongoing Azadi March of the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam, targeting Maulana Fazlur Rehman in any part of Pakistan.According to an alert issued by the Provincial Intelligence Centre (PIC), the Home Department, Punjab, dated October 28, 2019 and titled “Threat Perception”, a copy of which is available with The News, it has been stated the Indian RAW and the Afghan NDS want to target Maulana Fazlur Rehman in the near future. For this purpose, they are making contacts with target-killing groups in Pakistan and offering $1 million for the assassination of Maulana.The Hizb-e-Islami Afghanistan (HIA) has tasked terrorists with exploiting the fragile security/political situation in the country. A huge amount of money was provided for the task. The terrorist activities will focus on bomb blast/suicide attack on the JUI-F procession/sit-ins.It has been learnt that terrorists backed by the HIA have planned to target the JUI-F Azadi March.Miscreants are likely to infiltrate in the garb of protesters and reportedly attempt to launch an opportunistic attack. Moreover, the likely presence of young madrassa students may present both a target as well as an appearance to emulate for the prospective attackers.The impact of any terrorist activity in the midst of the march could be of enormous proportions. Reportedly, a suicide jacket for the purpose has been dispatched via Chaman border.It is learnt that the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) prompted by the HIA is planning to launch a terrorist attack during the Azadi March. The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has also planned to target the march. Terrorists are planning to take benefit of the potential rowdy mob by infiltrating in the garb of protesters. A copy of the alert has been forwarded to Maulana Amjad Khan, Ameer JUI-F, Punjab, to inform Maulana Fazlur Rehman not to allow unchecked persons to get close to him.
According to an alert issued by the Provincial Intelligence Centre (PIC), the Home Department, Punjab, dated October 28, 2019 and titled “Threat Perception”, a copy of which is available with The News, it has been stated the Indian RAW and the Afghan NDS want to target Maulana Fazlur Rehman in the near future. For this purpose, they are making contacts with target-killing groups in Pakistan and offering $1 million for the assassination of Maulana.The Hizb-e-Islami Afghanistan (HIA) has tasked terrorists with exploiting the fragile security/political situation in the country. A huge amount of money was provided for the task. The terrorist activities will focus on bomb blast/suicide attack on the JUI-F procession/sit-ins.It has been learnt that terrorists backed by the HIA have planned to target the JUI-F Azadi March.Miscreants are likely to infiltrate in the garb of protesters and reportedly attempt to launch an opportunistic attack. Moreover, the likely presence of young madrassa students may present both a target as well as an appearance to emulate for the prospective attackers.The impact of any terrorist activity in the midst of the march could be of enormous proportions. Reportedly, a suicide jacket for the purpose has been dispatched via Chaman border.It is learnt that the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) prompted by the HIA is planning to launch a terrorist attack during the Azadi March. The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has also planned to target the march. Terrorists are planning to take benefit of the potential rowdy mob by infiltrating in the garb of protesters. A copy of the alert has been forwarded to Maulana Amjad Khan, Ameer JUI-F, Punjab, to inform Maulana Fazlur Rehman not to allow unchecked persons to get close to him.
The Hizb-e-Islami Afghanistan (HIA) has tasked terrorists with exploiting the fragile security/political situation in the country. A huge amount of money was provided for the task. The terrorist activities will focus on bomb blast/suicide attack on the JUI-F procession/sit-ins.It has been learnt that terrorists backed by the HIA have planned to target the JUI-F Azadi March.Miscreants are likely to infiltrate in the garb of protesters and reportedly attempt to launch an opportunistic attack. Moreover, the likely presence of young madrassa students may present both a target as well as an appearance to emulate for the prospective attackers.The impact of any terrorist activity in the midst of the march could be of enormous proportions. Reportedly, a suicide jacket for the purpose has been dispatched via Chaman border.It is learnt that the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) prompted by the HIA is planning to launch a terrorist attack during the Azadi March. The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has also planned to target the march. Terrorists are planning to take benefit of the potential rowdy mob by infiltrating in the garb of protesters. A copy of the alert has been forwarded to Maulana Amjad Khan, Ameer JUI-F, Punjab, to inform Maulana Fazlur Rehman not to allow unchecked persons to get close to him.
It has been learnt that terrorists backed by the HIA have planned to target the JUI-F Azadi March.Miscreants are likely to infiltrate in the garb of protesters and reportedly attempt to launch an opportunistic attack. Moreover, the likely presence of young madrassa students may present both a target as well as an appearance to emulate for the prospective attackers.The impact of any terrorist activity in the midst of the march could be of enormous proportions. Reportedly, a suicide jacket for the purpose has been dispatched via Chaman border.It is learnt that the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) prompted by the HIA is planning to launch a terrorist attack during the Azadi March. The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has also planned to target the march. Terrorists are planning to take benefit of the potential rowdy mob by infiltrating in the garb of protesters. A copy of the alert has been forwarded to Maulana Amjad Khan, Ameer JUI-F, Punjab, to inform Maulana Fazlur Rehman not to allow unchecked persons to get close to him.
Miscreants are likely to infiltrate in the garb of protesters and reportedly attempt to launch an opportunistic attack. Moreover, the likely presence of young madrassa students may present both a target as well as an appearance to emulate for the prospective attackers.The impact of any terrorist activity in the midst of the march could be of enormous proportions. Reportedly, a suicide jacket for the purpose has been dispatched via Chaman border.It is learnt that the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) prompted by the HIA is planning to launch a terrorist attack during the Azadi March. The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has also planned to target the march. Terrorists are planning to take benefit of the potential rowdy mob by infiltrating in the garb of protesters. A copy of the alert has been forwarded to Maulana Amjad Khan, Ameer JUI-F, Punjab, to inform Maulana Fazlur Rehman not to allow unchecked persons to get close to him.
The impact of any terrorist activity in the midst of the march could be of enormous proportions. Reportedly, a suicide jacket for the purpose has been dispatched via Chaman border.It is learnt that the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) prompted by the HIA is planning to launch a terrorist attack during the Azadi March. The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has also planned to target the march. Terrorists are planning to take benefit of the potential rowdy mob by infiltrating in the garb of protesters. A copy of the alert has been forwarded to Maulana Amjad Khan, Ameer JUI-F, Punjab, to inform Maulana Fazlur Rehman not to allow unchecked persons to get close to him.
It is learnt that the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) prompted by the HIA is planning to launch a terrorist attack during the Azadi March. The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has also planned to target the march. Terrorists are planning to take benefit of the potential rowdy mob by infiltrating in the garb of protesters. A copy of the alert has been forwarded to Maulana Amjad Khan, Ameer JUI-F, Punjab, to inform Maulana Fazlur Rehman not to allow unchecked persons to get close to him.
Some prisoners struggled to return to civilian life after their release
Iran shares a more than 900-kilometre border with Afghanistan
Economic Coordination Committee of Pakistan had already approved the export, facilitating the deal
Management of the institution has laid off 8 officers and employees to reduce administrative expenses
Both sides, it was learnt, were using heavy and automatic weapons during the skirmishes
Establishment Division has issued notification of the extension of suspension
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: Punjab issues alert, RAW, NDS may attack Fazl
LAHORE: The Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) or the National Directorate of Security (NDS) can attack the ongoing Azadi March of the Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam, targeting Maulana Fazlur Rehman in any part of Pakistan.According to an alert issued by the Provincial Intelligence Centre (PIC), the Home Department, Punjab, dated October 28, 2019 and titled “Threat Perception”, a copy of which is available with The News, it has been stated the Indian RAW and the Afghan NDS want to target Maulana Fazlur Rehman in the near future. For this purpose, they are making contacts with target-killing groups in Pakistan and offering $1 million for the assassination of Maulana.The Hizb-e-Islami Afghanistan (HIA) has tasked terrorists with exploiting the fragile security/political situation in the country. A huge amount of money was provided for the task. The terrorist activities will focus on bomb blast/suicide attack on the JUI-F procession/sit-ins.It has reliably been learnt that terrorists backed by the HIA have planned to target the JUI-F Azadi March. Miscreants are likely to infiltrate in the garb of protesters and reportedly attempt to launch an opportunistic attack.Moreover, the likely presence of young madrasa students may present both a target as well as an appearance to emulate for the prospective attackers. The impact of any terrorist activity in the midst of the march could be of enormous proportions. Reportedly, a suicide jacket for the purpose has been dispatched via Chaman border.It is learnt that the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) prompted by the HIA is planning to launch a terrorist attack during the Azadi March. The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has also planned to target the march.Terrorists are planning to take benefit of the potential rowdy mob by infiltrating in the garb of protesters. A copy of the alert has been forwarded to Maulana Amjad Khan, Ameer JUI-F, Punjab, to inform Maulana Fazlur Rehman not to allow unchecked persons to get close to him.
According to an alert issued by the Provincial Intelligence Centre (PIC), the Home Department, Punjab, dated October 28, 2019 and titled “Threat Perception”, a copy of which is available with The News, it has been stated the Indian RAW and the Afghan NDS want to target Maulana Fazlur Rehman in the near future. For this purpose, they are making contacts with target-killing groups in Pakistan and offering $1 million for the assassination of Maulana.The Hizb-e-Islami Afghanistan (HIA) has tasked terrorists with exploiting the fragile security/political situation in the country. A huge amount of money was provided for the task. The terrorist activities will focus on bomb blast/suicide attack on the JUI-F procession/sit-ins.It has reliably been learnt that terrorists backed by the HIA have planned to target the JUI-F Azadi March. Miscreants are likely to infiltrate in the garb of protesters and reportedly attempt to launch an opportunistic attack.Moreover, the likely presence of young madrasa students may present both a target as well as an appearance to emulate for the prospective attackers. The impact of any terrorist activity in the midst of the march could be of enormous proportions. Reportedly, a suicide jacket for the purpose has been dispatched via Chaman border.It is learnt that the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) prompted by the HIA is planning to launch a terrorist attack during the Azadi March. The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has also planned to target the march.Terrorists are planning to take benefit of the potential rowdy mob by infiltrating in the garb of protesters. A copy of the alert has been forwarded to Maulana Amjad Khan, Ameer JUI-F, Punjab, to inform Maulana Fazlur Rehman not to allow unchecked persons to get close to him.
The Hizb-e-Islami Afghanistan (HIA) has tasked terrorists with exploiting the fragile security/political situation in the country. A huge amount of money was provided for the task. The terrorist activities will focus on bomb blast/suicide attack on the JUI-F procession/sit-ins.It has reliably been learnt that terrorists backed by the HIA have planned to target the JUI-F Azadi March. Miscreants are likely to infiltrate in the garb of protesters and reportedly attempt to launch an opportunistic attack.Moreover, the likely presence of young madrasa students may present both a target as well as an appearance to emulate for the prospective attackers. The impact of any terrorist activity in the midst of the march could be of enormous proportions. Reportedly, a suicide jacket for the purpose has been dispatched via Chaman border.It is learnt that the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) prompted by the HIA is planning to launch a terrorist attack during the Azadi March. The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has also planned to target the march.Terrorists are planning to take benefit of the potential rowdy mob by infiltrating in the garb of protesters. A copy of the alert has been forwarded to Maulana Amjad Khan, Ameer JUI-F, Punjab, to inform Maulana Fazlur Rehman not to allow unchecked persons to get close to him.
It has reliably been learnt that terrorists backed by the HIA have planned to target the JUI-F Azadi March. Miscreants are likely to infiltrate in the garb of protesters and reportedly attempt to launch an opportunistic attack.Moreover, the likely presence of young madrasa students may present both a target as well as an appearance to emulate for the prospective attackers. The impact of any terrorist activity in the midst of the march could be of enormous proportions. Reportedly, a suicide jacket for the purpose has been dispatched via Chaman border.It is learnt that the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) prompted by the HIA is planning to launch a terrorist attack during the Azadi March. The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has also planned to target the march.Terrorists are planning to take benefit of the potential rowdy mob by infiltrating in the garb of protesters. A copy of the alert has been forwarded to Maulana Amjad Khan, Ameer JUI-F, Punjab, to inform Maulana Fazlur Rehman not to allow unchecked persons to get close to him.
Moreover, the likely presence of young madrasa students may present both a target as well as an appearance to emulate for the prospective attackers. The impact of any terrorist activity in the midst of the march could be of enormous proportions. Reportedly, a suicide jacket for the purpose has been dispatched via Chaman border.It is learnt that the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) prompted by the HIA is planning to launch a terrorist attack during the Azadi March. The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has also planned to target the march.Terrorists are planning to take benefit of the potential rowdy mob by infiltrating in the garb of protesters. A copy of the alert has been forwarded to Maulana Amjad Khan, Ameer JUI-F, Punjab, to inform Maulana Fazlur Rehman not to allow unchecked persons to get close to him.
It is learnt that the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) prompted by the HIA is planning to launch a terrorist attack during the Azadi March. The Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) has also planned to target the march.Terrorists are planning to take benefit of the potential rowdy mob by infiltrating in the garb of protesters. A copy of the alert has been forwarded to Maulana Amjad Khan, Ameer JUI-F, Punjab, to inform Maulana Fazlur Rehman not to allow unchecked persons to get close to him.
Terrorists are planning to take benefit of the potential rowdy mob by infiltrating in the garb of protesters. A copy of the alert has been forwarded to Maulana Amjad Khan, Ameer JUI-F, Punjab, to inform Maulana Fazlur Rehman not to allow unchecked persons to get close to him.
Some prisoners struggled to return to civilian life after their release
Iran shares a more than 900-kilometre border with Afghanistan
Economic Coordination Committee of Pakistan had already approved the export, facilitating the deal
Management of the institution has laid off 8 officers and employees to reduce administrative expenses
Both sides, it was learnt, were using heavy and automatic weapons during the skirmishes
Establishment Division has issued notification of the extension of suspension
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: No title found


Title: 
	Pakistan may avoid being blacklisted by terror financing watchdog - The Hindu

To enjoy additional benefits
CONNECT WITH US
Updated- October 18, 2019 08:56 am IST - New Delhi
The Financial Action Task Force, is the United Nation watchdog against terror financing. Photo: Twitter/@FATFNews
Pakistan could escape being blacklisted by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) on Friday, but even if it does, the international watchdog on terror finance is likely to issue strong warnings to the South Asian nation’s government, in addition to keeping the country on the grey list, sources said.
On Tuesday, the FATF’s International Co-operation Review Group (ICRG) discussed Pakistan’s actions for countering terror financing and anti- money laundering (CFT/AML), and the final discussion is scheduled to be held on Friday.
Diplomatic sources stressed that no decision on the Pakistan listing had been taken as yet by the task force, and that the 39-member body would only decide whether to continue keeping Pakistan on the grey list or downgrade it to the blacklist, at its final plenary meeting on Friday. Given that China, Turkey and Malaysia were ranged against blacklisting Pakistan at the plenary session in June, and continued to support Pakistan during the UNGA on other issues, officials have been saying that it was unlikely these countries would allow a blacklisting at this time.
The latest mutual evaluation report released by the Asia Pacific Group (APG) on CFT and AML released on October 14, assigned a national risk-rating of ‘medium’ to Pakistan.

The report said that “several United Nations listed organisations continue to operate openly in Pakistan, including holding fundraising events” and that since February 2018 Pakistan had taken positive actions against these organisations “but UNSCR 1267 is not being fully implemented”.
Pakistan is expected to be kept under “significant and sustained” pressure to deliver on the 27-point action plan by February 2020, when the next plenary session will be held, the sources added. “While there has been acknowledgement that some action has been taken [by Pakistan], it is not enough, and the pressure will only increase from this point on,” said a diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity. Government officials expect that Pakistan will be issued severe warnings to comply with the full plan in the next few months.
Pakistan was previously placed on the FATF’s grey list in February 2012, and had been removed from the grey list in 2015 after it passed a National Action Plan (NAP) to deal with terrorism after the Peshawar School massacre in December 2014. The country, which had been placed under severe restrictions between 2008-2012, was put back on the grey list in 2018. The FATF is an inter-governmental body established in 1989 to combat money laundering, terrorist financing and other related threats to the integrity of the international financial system.
The APG said in its report that Pakistan faces “significant risks of terrorist financing both from legitimate and illegitimate sources as well as weak, or no, regulation/supervision of certain sectors (such as hawala/hundi) and porous borders.”
“Pakistan’s geographical links to regional neighbours (Afghanistan and Iran, in particular) heighten Pakistan’s terrorist financing (TF) risks associated with bulk cash smuggling. Also terrorist groups operating in Pakistan are reported to include, but not limited to, Islamic State in Khorasan province (ISKP), Tehrik-e Taliban Pakistan, Quetta, Shura Taliban, Haqqani Network, and Lashkar-e-Taiba (including its affiliates Jamaat-ud-Dawa and Falah-i-Insaniat Foundation), which raise funds through a variety of means including direct support, public fundraising... and through criminal activities,” the APG said.
In the period under review, Pakistan registered 228 TF cases and convicted 58 individuals, which is not consistent with Pakistan’s overall level of TF risk, the group said.
“The vast majority of TF investigations, and all of the convictions entered, were obtained at the provincial level with 49 convictions in Punjab. A total of nine TF convictions for all other provinces in Pakistan is not consistent with province-specific TF risks,” the APG said.
Earlier this week, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval lauded the efforts of Indian agencies at the FATF platform. He said that the “biggest pressure on Pakistan is from FATF” and this could be done as evidence collected by various agencies against Pakistan’s involvement in terror activities was placed before the international body.
Published- October 17, 2019 11:51 pm IST
terrorism (crime)/Pakistan/national security
Copyright© 2024, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
BACK TO TOP
Terms & conditions|Institutional Subscriber
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by ourcommunity guidelinesfor posting your comments.
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.

Title: “They’ve Shot Many Like This”: Abusive Night Raids by CIA-Backed Afghan Strike Forces | HRW
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
Download the full report in English
Download the appendices to the report
Map
Download the full report in English
Download the appendices to the report
Abusive Night Raids by CIA-Backed Afghan Strike Forces
A car burned during a raid by the Khost Protection Force in Tani district, Khost province, Afghanistan, July 28, 2019.

                                      © 2019 Stefanie Glinski
Through much of 2019, the United States government and Taliban insurgents were engaged in negotiations toward an agreement that could lead to the eventual withdrawal of US forces in Afghanistan. Those negotiations officially halted, at least temporarily, on September 7, 2019. In the absence of a larger political settlement, any agreement between the US and Taliban would not end the armed conflict between the Afghan government and the Taliban, nor resolve a range of conflicts that have fueled fighting among various Afghan factions for over four decades. If there is a political settlement, the kind of Afghan government that emerges, the structure of the country’s defense forces, and the extent to which existing militia and insurgent forces demobilize and disarm will all be critically important.
One glaring omission in the negotiations so far has been discussion of the future of clandestine Afghan forces operating as part of the covert operations of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in Afghanistan, with ground support from US special forces seconded to the CIA and air support from the US military, including intelligence and surveillance in the identification of targets. A number of US military officials have sought to retain these Afghan paramilitary forces in Afghanistan as a bulwark against Al-Qaeda and the Islamic State (also known as ISIS). These troops include Afghan strike forces who have been responsible for extrajudicial executions and enforced disappearances, indiscriminate airstrikes, attacks on medical facilities, and other violations of international humanitarian law, or the laws of war.
Among the recent cases Human Rights Watch has documented:
These are not isolated cases. This report documents 14 cases in which CIA-backed Afghan strike forces committed serious abuses between late 2017 and mid-2019. They are illustrative of a larger pattern of serious laws-of-war violations—some amounting to war crimes—that extends to all provinces in Afghanistan where these paramilitary forces operate with impunity.
In the course of researching this report, Afghan officials, civil society and human rights activists, Afghan and foreign healthcare workers, journalists, and community elders all described abusive raids and indiscriminate airstrikes as having become a daily fact of life for many communities—often with devastating consequences. Speaking to Human Rights Watch, one diplomat familiar with Afghan strike force operations referred to them as “death squads.”
Afghan paramilitary forces nominally belong to the Afghan National Directorate of Security (NDS), the country’s primary intelligence agency. However, these forces do not fall under the ordinary chain of command within the NDS, nor under normal Afghan or US military chains of command. They largely have been recruited, trained, equipped, and overseen by the CIA. They often have US special forces personnel deployed alongside them during kill-or-capture operations; these US forces, primarily Army Rangers, have been seconded to the CIA. Afghan paramilitary strike forces generally carry out operations with US logistical support and are dependent on US intelligence and surveillance for targeting.
Search operations in Afghan villages to “kill or capture” insurgents conducted at night (“night raids”) have long raised controversy in Afghanistan because they frequently harm civilians and civilian property. Nonetheless, there has been a sharp increase in these operations since late 2017.
In 2017, in a departure from previous policy, the US authorized Afghan special forces, including these paramilitary units, to call in airstrikes for support even without US forces present to identify the targets. Changes to targeting directives have meant that airstrikes are hitting more residential buildings, while a decreased US ground presence and a reliance on local Afghan intelligence sources has meant there is less information available about the possible presence of civilians in those buildings.
Taliban forces have frequently committed violations of the laws of war and human rights abuses, including indiscriminate attacks that have killed and injured civilians, as well as using civilians as shields. Afghan National Defense and Security Force (ANDSF) officials and their US counterparts contend that night raids backed by air operations are necessary in a war in which insurgent forces deploy among the civilian population. But Taliban forces unlawfully putting civilians at risk does not justify Afghan and US military operations that cause indiscriminate or disproportionate loss of civilian life, nor attacks on medical facilities. The deliberate killing of civilians or combatants in custody is never lawful.
In many of the night raids that Human Rights Watch investigated, Afghan paramilitary forces seem to have unlawfully targeted civilians because of mistaken identity, poor intelligence, or political rivalries in the locality.
In many cases, paramilitary units apparently targeted houses for night raids or airstrikes based on intelligence that family members had provided food to Taliban or ISIS insurgents (often under duress); were nearby when insurgents carried out attacks on government forces; or may have had political or tribal links that made them susceptible to local rivalries and false accusations of links with insurgent groups.
In some cases, these paramilitary forces targeted medical staff working in clinics in contested or Taliban-controlled areas because they treated wounded insurgents. Civilians in these areas also described living in fear that the near constant presence of drones, aircraft, and helicopters searching for insurgents who live in their villages left them vulnerable to being targeted at any time as fighters.
In many cases, paramilitary strike forces summarily executed persons taken into custody or forcibly disappeared them, not telling their families about their fate or whereabouts. In none of the cases Human Rights Watch investigated did the civilians who were killed offer resistance or act in any way that justified the use of force.
Under the laws of war, the government has an obligation to investigate alleged war crimes by its forces and appropriately prosecute those responsible. Neither the Afghan military nor the government has developed any meaningful capacity to investigate possible violations arising from their military operations, despite years of training by the US and others. They lack both the capacity and the political will to investigate incidents involving these CIA-backed paramilitary forces.
In the very few cases in which the Afghan government has promised to investigate incidents, no findings have been made public. We are unaware of any cases in which those responsible for serious crimes, including murder, have been held to account, nor have the victims been able to obtain redress. Foreign forces taking part in military operations are also obligated to investigate alleged wrongdoing. As a matter of policy, the US military does not respond to questions about clandestine operations.
At their core, the behavior of these Afghan paramilitary forces reflects the propensity of the US and Afghan governments to prioritize short-term military fixes over long-term reforms that would promote security and the rule of law. As these forces commit serious abuses without accountability, they foster an environment that contributes to, rather than reduces, general lawlessness and distrust of the government in the areas in which they deploy.
Even though the paramilitary strike forces operate outside of the usual Afghan military chain of command and have repeatedly been involved in rights abuses, official calls to preserve them remain strong. Ultimately, the strike forces are just the latest manifestation of US and Afghan government attempts since 2001 to unleash forces largely unbound by the laws of war in a counterproductive approach to combatting insurgency, from the Taliban to Al-Qaeda to ISIS. Rather than bringing stability to Afghanistan, they have undermined Afghan institutions and put many Afghans at risk.
All parties to the armed conflict in Afghanistan, including insurgent forces, are obligated to abide by international humanitarian law, or the laws of war. Specifically, the laws of war prohibit deliberate or indiscriminate attacks on civilians and civilian structures, including medical workers and facilities; summary executions of anyone in custody; and enforced disappearances, including secret detention.
Human Rights Watch conducted research for this report in Afghanistan between November 2017 and August 2019. Human Rights Watch researchers interviewed 39 local residents and other witnesses to night raids in Ghazni, Helmand, Kabul, Kandahar, Nangarhar, Paktia, Uruzgan, Wardak, and Zabul provinces. We identified incidents on the basis of reports from local media and Afghan NGOs tracking civilian casualties. We also interviewed staff at Afghan human rights groups who have documented these raids, and NGO officials whose Afghan staff have been caught up in raids. Most interviews were conducted in Dari and Pashto. Some of the interviews were conducted by telephone.
All of the witnesses with whom we spoke were informed of the purpose of the interview and the ways in which the information would be used, and were offered anonymity in our reporting. This report withholds identifying information for most interviewees to protect their privacy and security. None of the interviewees received financial or other incentives for speaking with us.
Human Rights Watch also interviewed staff members of Afghanistan-based NGOs and international humanitarian organizations, representatives from the United Nations, journalists, and military analysts familiar with Afghanistan’s security institutions and oversight of special forces operations.
In August 2019, Human Rights Watch asked the Afghan government and US military for information, including any investigations into the incidents documented in this report, and for their comments. Responses from the US Forces-Afghanistan and Resolute Support and from the CIA are included in appendices to this report.
United States and Afghan security force operations in Afghanistan are claiming the highest civilian toll in more than a decade. According to the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA), international and Afghan government forces caused more civilian deaths than the Taliban and other insurgent groups in Afghanistan in the first six months of 2019.[1]Airstrikes, many of which hit residential buildings, have been the leading cause of these deaths, but UNAMA also noted a 79 percent increase in civilian casualties from search operations conducted by Afghan paramilitary strike forces as of mid-2019.[2]
Kill-or-capture operations conducted at night (“night raids”) have long been a controversial military tactic in Afghanistan.[3]Soon after the US-led invasion of Afghanistan in late 2001, the Central Intelligence Agency recruited forces from among existing anti-Taliban militias to conduct kill-or-capture operations as an early feature of US special forces operations after 2001.
Such raids increased during the “surge” of 2009-2010 that brought 50,000 additional US troops to Afghanistan.[4]Between December 2010 and February 2011, US special forces, often accompanying Afghan government forces, carried out on average 19 night raids per night.[5]Following public protests in Afghanistan and criticism from human rights organizations about rising civilian casualties in these operations, as well as concerns for rising numbers of deaths of US special forces personnel, the US military in 2011 cut back the involvement of its special forces in night raids.[6]In subsequent years, however, the CIA expanded its recruitment and training of Afghan paramilitary units to work with CIA operatives to carry out kill-or-capture operations.[7]
According to theNew York Times, Afghan paramilitary strike force units recruited, trained, equipped, and overseen by the CIA operate “in a parallel mission to the United States military’s, but with looser rules of engagement,” in which Afghan security institutions maintain only a “liaison relationship.”[8]The development of these strike forces is linked to the US military’s practice of lending US special forces to the CIA through a program initially known by the code name Omega.[9]Although Afghan forces “are doing the assaulting and the killing and the capturing,” US special forces, principally US Army Rangers, are often, but not always, deployed alongside them.[10]Even where no US forces take part in the operation, the US military often provides logistical and tactical support to these CIA-backed operations, including planning, delivering the forces to the location via helicopters, and providing air support.[11]
From the initial weeks after the September 11, 2001 attacks on the US, the CIA worked with existing Afghan anti-Taliban forces and recruited new Afghan militias to pursue Al-Qaeda militants.[12]The early versions of these paramilitary strike forces were in place and operating as part of the CIA’s covert operations before other US ground forces arrived in Afghanistan in November 2001, before the Bonn Agreement was signed in December 2001, and more than a year before the Afghan National Army was created in December 2002.[13]
Since 2001, the CIA has maintained a counterterrorism operation in Afghanistan parallel to the US military operation.[14]Some US special forces personnel have been seconded to this CIA operation over the years, initially under the Omega program which began in 2001.[15]The CIA counterterrorism operation, which falls under different US legal authorities than the US military operation, has continued to recruit, equip, train, and deploy Afghan paramilitary forces in pursuit of Al-Qaeda and Taliban forces, and, after 2014, militants affiliated with ISIS. CIA officers from the agency’s Special Activities Center oversee operations along with operatives from Afghanistan’s intelligence agency—the National Directorate of Security, which was established by the CIA in 2002—outside of the ordinary NDS chain of command.[16]The operations include elite US troops from the Joint Special Operations Command, generally Army Rangers, and contractors.[17]The majority of the forces taking part in these operations are Afghan.[18]
The earliest of these Afghan forces, the Khost Protection Force (KPF), has operated since the mid-2000s, and the Kandahar Strike Force (KSF) since at least 2009.[19]Operations by the NDS 04 paramilitary force first garnered headlines in 2013 following airstrikes in Kunar that killed 26 civilians;[20]the first reports about NDS 01 and NDS 02 operations appeared from 2017.[21]The KPF and KSF operate out of CIA bases (Camp Chapman and “Mullah Omar’s house,” respectively). They function as part of US covert operations and often have US special forces officers deployed alongside them during kill-or-capture operations.[22]They carry out operations with US logistical support and are dependent on US intelligence and surveillance for targeting.[23]Since 2017, these paramilitary strike forces have stepped up night raids, apparently as part of a US strategy to cause maximum casualties to the Taliban and other insurgents before a US troop withdrawal.[24]
The Afghan National Defense and Security Forces, including the Afghan National Army and Afghan National Police, have their own special forces.[25]They are not part of the CIA’s covert operations.
CIA operations involving Afghan paramilitary strike forces fall under the authority of Title 50 of the US Code, covering covert activities.[26]The US commander in Afghanistan—currently Gen. Austin Scott Miller, a former Army Ranger—is head of both the US counterterrorism mission, Operation Freedom’s Sentinel (OFS), and the NATO mission, Resolute Support. Only OFS is a combat operation; NATO ceased combat operations at the end of 2014.[27]
All US military commands, including the Joint Special Operations Command (JSOC), operate under the US Commander. “White” special force operations include US forces who support the Afghan National Army in conventional operations and Crisis Response Units in Kabul.“Black” special forces operations include those of JSOC.[28]
The most clandestine “black ops” units are also drawn from JSOC and seconded to the CIA. Initially known as the Omega program and drawn primarily from SEAL Team 6, the program has since 2009 recruited experienced Army Rangers. The objectives for these units have evolved from the original counterterrorism pursuit teams of the early 2000s, focused on Al-Qaeda, to become more focused on the Taliban, especially after 2009, then on groups linked to ISIS after 2014. As of 2019, the focus is largely on the Taliban leadership, ISIS-affiliated groups, and groups claiming to be Al-Qaeda.[29]
Since 2015, Afghan paramilitary strike forces have stepped up night raids against the Taliban and other insurgents. The US military does not publish statistics on the numbers of such raids, but there has been a sharp increase in these operations since late 2017 as part of the new US South Asia policy that expanded both airstrikes and CIA operations to target the Taliban as well as Al-Qaeda.[30]In October 2017, senior US administration officials told theNew York Timesthat the CIA was expanding its covert operations in Afghanistan by sending officers and contractors to work with Afghan forces to “hunt and kill” Taliban militants.[31]On October 12, then-CIA Director Mike Pompeo publicly announced that under the Trump administration, the CIA was adopting a more aggressive approach:
The UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan has raised concerns about “the lack of transparency for command, control, rules of engagement, and policy framework” guiding these forces, noting that no one “within the Afghan national security forces or civilian government administration has been willing or able to discuss incidents … or address issues of accountability.”[33]
UNAMA noted in February 2019 that a significant reason for the increase in civilian casualties caused by pro-government forces was kill-or-capture operations attributed to NDS special forces and the Khost Protection Force.[34]These forces operate as part of the covert program backed by the CIA. With regard to the Khost Protection Force, UNAMA said:
In 2018, UNAMA documented 353 civilian casualties (284 deaths and 69 injured) from search operations, with the majority caused by NDS special forces and the Khost Protection Force, and noted that the “high number of fatalities compared to the number of injured suggests that force was employed indiscriminately.”[36]Following the alleged killing of 11 men in Zurmat district in August 2019 (described below), the former head of UNAMA’s human rights unit tweeted that the killings needed “investigating, not only the incident but the pattern.”[37]
Peace talks between the Taliban and the US government, which began in late 2018, have focused on the withdrawal of US forces, but the status and fate of these paramilitary forces remains unclear. Some US officials have pushed for retaining all intelligence forces to continue the fight against ISIS and other groups and to act as a deterrent against groups like Al-Qaeda regaining a strong presence in Afghanistan. But the continued presence of paramilitary forces implicated in serious human right abuses—in some cases possibly fueled by tribal or political loyalties—would pose a threat to communities already victimized by these forces.[38]
In many cases, night raids have been accompanied by airstrikes that have indiscriminately and disproportionately killed Afghan civilians.[39]According to UNAMA, civilian casualties from US airstrikes have increased steadily since 2017.[40]In a departure from previous policy, sometime after 2016, the US authorized Afghan forces to call in airstrikes for support even without US forces present to identify the targets.[41]
Changes to targeting directives have meant that airstrikes are hitting more residential buildings, at a time when a decreased ground presence and a reliance on local Afghan intelligence sources have limited the amount of information about the possible presence of civilians in those buildings.[42]Such strikes carry inherently greater risks for civilians because of the difficulties in determining whether civilians are inside prior to a strike.[43]
This intensification in offensive operations has coincided with decreased US government transparency. While CIA operations and actions by CIA-backed forces have never been made public, Resolute Support, the US-led NATO mission in Afghanistan, published a monthly breakdown of air operations from the NATO mission from January 2015 through October 2017. This stopped after October 2017. In October 2018, Resolute Support resumed publishing strike data, but from November 2018, the data no longer included information about targets due to “operational concerns.”[44]The decision to remove targeting data followed a report by the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, which maintains a strike log for US operations in Afghanistan, on the increase in civilian casualties from airstrikes on residential buildings.[45]
Before the drawdown of most international forces from Afghanistan in 2014, the CIA began expanding the number of Afghan paramilitary units fighting the Taliban and other insurgents. A 2013 report by the Afghanistan Analysts Network described a military operation in Kunar province carried out by a paramilitary unit known as NDS 04, led by CIA officers. NDS 04 had called in two airstrikes over a two-month period in Kunar that killed 26 civilians.[46]Reports on NDS 01 and 02 appeared in 2017. The numbers refer to the regional NDS directorates. Specific operations led by NDS strike forces may include units from other Afghan National Defense and Security Forces, including the Afghan National Army (ANA) and Afghan National Police (ANP).
While these forces are nominally under the National Directorate of Security, they operate outside the normal chain of command of the Afghan security forces and as part of CIA-backed covert operations. The forces are reliant on the US military for logistical and air support, including helicopters to transport the forces during operations—even for operations that are not directly partnered by US or allied non-Afghan special forces.
Operates in Afghanistan’s central region, in Kabul, Parwan, Wardak, Logar, and possibly other bordering provinces.[47]
Operates in Afghanistan’s eastern region, in Nangarhar and possibly other bordering provinces.
One of the older counterterrorism pursuit teams established by the CIA to “pursue” Al-Qaeda suspects into Pakistan after 2001 (like the KPF, below). The KSF is based in Kandahar in the former compound of the late Taliban leader Mullah Omar, renamed “Gekho” after US forces occupied it, but still commonly referred to as “Mullah Omar’s house.” It operates in Afghanistan’s southern region, in Kandahar, Helmand, and Uruzgan. Ahmad Wali Karzai, the late brother of former president Hamid Karzai, reportedly oversaw KSF operations until his assassination in 2011.[48]
Operates in Nuristan, Kunar, and other bordering northeastern provinces.[49]
The first of the CIA-supported special forces units established in the mid-2000s.[50]As with the NDS strike force units listed above, CIA officers or contractors sometimes accompany the KPF on operations. At the same time, according to UNAMA, a KPF commander “participates in the weekly security meetings in Khost province, chaired by the provincial governor, alongside Afghan national security forces, which suggests some degree of information-sharing and tacit consent by the [Afghan] government of its operations.”[51]The KPF base is Camp Chapman outside Khost city. It reportedly has battalions in Sharana, Paktika province, and Gardez, Paktia province, and is the largest of the paramilitary strike forces, with between 3,000 and 10,000 men and a network of informants.[52]
Night raids by US and Afghan forces aimed at killing or capturing insurgents largely occur in rural areas of Afghanistan that are under Taliban control or being contested by Afghan government forces. Urban-based journalists have little access to the incidents, and many do not get reported in the mainstream Afghan media, particularly in English-language outlets. Journalists based in the provinces report on some of the incidents, particularly those that spark protests from local residents.[53]An Afghan NGO staff member based in Kabul described the incidents as “severely and maybe sometimes intentionally under reported,” because Afghan media outlets are under pressure from Afghanistan’s security institutions not to publish reports critical of the security forces.[54]
The modus operandi of night raids by Afghan paramilitary forces is that helicopters arrive late at night or early morning, airlifting a strike force unit to a designated area.[55]These forces then breach the outer walls of residential compounds, clinics, offices, or other facilities, generally by using an explosive. Upon entering the buildings, they separate men and teenage boys from women, teenage girls, and younger children, who usually remain in a single room. Following questioning, some of the men may be detained and taken away by the forces for further interrogation.[56]In some cases, those detained are brought to the Parwan detention facility in Bagram, on the US military base north of Kabul. Others have been detained in facilities in different parts of Afghanistan. Cases where family members are not informed of their detained relatives’ whereabouts constitute enforced disappearances. In some other cases, the suspect is shot, execution-style.
While the targeting of a specific area or house for a night raid is supposed to be based on accurate intelligence about insurgent activity, in practice, certain activities leave local residents who are not involved in insurgent activity vulnerable to being targeted. These include providing food to Taliban insurgents, even if under duress; proximity to insurgent activities; or incidental contact with insurgent groups. Political rivalries within the community have also been a factor in targeting civilians who demonstrated no belligerent conduct or status.[57]
These problems were identified several years ago and were supposed to have been addressed in revised rules of engagement. A 2011 report on night raids observed similar abuses at a time when the Afghan administration under President Karzai sought to curtail US-led night raids: “The lack of transparency or strong accountability mechanisms have reinforced Afghan perceptions that international military use night raids to kill, harass, and intimidate civilians with impunity.”[58]
An Afghan employee of a Kabul-based NGO described his experience of being in the vicinity of a night raid during the Eid holidays in June 2019:[59]
Strike force units have conducted multiple raids in Zurmat district in Paktia province since 2018, killing at least 17 civilians.
On August 11, 2019, a raid by NDS 01 in Kulalgo village began at about 10:30 p.m.[60]According to a witness whose house was targeted, the Afghan strike forces were accompanied by US forces who blew open the doors of the house and shot four men in front of the rest of the family. In another house, they fatally shot three shopkeepers and one of their guests, all of whom were home for Eid celebrations. In the third incident, they killed a religious teacher and two construction workers.[61]
The Afghanistan Analysts Network (AAN), a Kabul-based research NGO, identified the men who were killed in the second house as Rahatullah, Nasratullah, and Hekmatullah, brothers who had a shop in Ghazni city. Nasratullah was also studying at Ghazni University to become a teacher, while Hekmatullah was a high school teacher.
Relatives told AAN that the strike force had asked males to present their ID cards. Said one:
According to AAN, eight of the men belonged to one tribe, and the four cousins were part of the extended family of a well-known local tribal elder—a family “known not to be associated with the Taleban or any other armed opposition group.”[63]In fact, the family patriarch, who died some years ago, was openly critical of the Taliban and had been forced to live out the last years of his life in Kabul.[64]
AAN also noted that on the same night, local residents reported a raid on a known Taliban house elsewhere in Zurmat that proved unsuccessful, as the Talban fighters escaped. That both raids occurred on the same night in Zurmat, and that the National Directorate of Security initially claimed that the 11 killed were Taliban, suggests that the strike forces might have targeted the wrong house, or operated on faulty intelligence, possibly fueled by local rivalries.[65]The laws of war prohibit the summary execution of any individual in custody; those responsible for such acts are committing war crimes.[66]
On August 15, 2019, the Afghan government ordered an investigation into the Kulalgo killings. At time of writing, no findings had been made public.
According to the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, an earlier night raid occurred in Zurmat on December 30, 2018, when the Khost Protection Force killed six civilians during a nighttime kill-or-capture operation that targeted a member of the provincial peace council and a tribal elder.[67]In the manner of other night raids, a helicopter delivered the KPF forces, who first breached the compound walls with an explosive, then shouted at those inside the house not to move or turn on the lights.[68]
One of the survivors, Ghulam Mohammad, told AAN that the strike forces forced him to come outside, where they questioned him about the Taliban. When the forces left and he returned to the house, Ghulam Mohammad found they had killed his son, Mohammad Karim, a student in his 20s; his brothers Sayid Hassan, mid-40s, and Naim Faruqi, 60; his nephews Attiqullah and Fath al-Rahman, students in their 20s; and Mohammad Omar, a neighbor in his 40s. Naim had been shot in the eye, and Karim in the mouth.[69]
The family decided to take the bodies to the governor in Gardez city to protest the killings, where they were joined by 100 residents demanding justice.[70]However, no investigation was announced.
Nerkh district in Wardak province has been a contested area for at least a decade, with a history of special operations abuses against local civilians.[71]As of mid-2019, the Taliban dominated much of the district. Clashes between Afghan security forces and the Taliban have been frequent.
M., anustad(teacher) and elder from Pair Dad village in Nerkh, told Human Rights Watch that NDS 01 activity had increased in recent months:
On October 8, 2018, a strike force conducted a large-scale operation with US air support to search for Taliban fighters in the area.[73]D.D., a 70-year-old farmer, had four daughters in Nerkh, one son working in Kabul, and two sons who had returned in mid-2018 from Iran, where they had worked as laborers for several years. One of those sons was shot dead in the raid and another was taken into custody. D.D. described what happened:
Around March 21, 2019, a strike force unit arrived in Panjwai at night and ordered all the men in the village to come outside, where they tied their hands and hooded them. After questioning them, they took two men, only one of whom has returned. Based on their uniforms, the fact that Gekho base is the only base in the vicinity reachable by road, and the fact that they had carried out previous raids in the district, witnesses identified the unit as belonging to the NDS 03, or Kandahar Strike Force, based at Gekho, west of Kandahar city.[75]
A few weeks later, on April 10, a strike force unit carried out a raid in Talokan village and neighboring villages in Panjwai. They killed Mohammad Gul, 60, who had been the principal of the primary school since 2011.[76]M.M., a relative, said that Mohammad Gul had been at home with his wife and daughters at the time of the raid. Based on their uniforms and the fact they traveled by road from east of Panjwai, M.M. believed the forces had come from the US base in Gekho, which is also known as “Mullah Omar’s house.” M.M. said:
The forces also detained five men—one from Talokan and four from Sarkilla village—and took them to an undisclosed location, effectively forcibly disappearing them.[78]According to M.M.:
On October 23, 2018, an NDS strike force unit carried out a raid in the Rodat district of Nangarhar, after first calling in an airstrike. G.G., a resident of Shahidanu Mena, Rodat, said that it was the NDS 02 unit.[80]He said they came at midnight and began shooting almost immediately, killing five members of one family and injuring two others:
The Bureau of Investigative Journalism investigated the raid and documented 13 civilian deaths in the incident, including the guard at the government school and the village pharmacist. Jamal Khan, a relative of the school guard, told the Bureau of Investigative Journalism that the raid started with an airstrike. “First, they attacked us with bombs,” he said. “Then they entered the living room and started to shoot around. They didn't care about who they were killing. They killed my uncle and his 9-year-old son. His wife and his other child were injured.”[82]
The government claimed that all those killed were ISIS fighters, but G.G. said that district officials had visited him to look into the incident and told him that what happened “was wrong.” He said NDS paid compensation to the affected families.[83]
On the evening of January 31, 2018, an Afghan paramilitary force unit backed by US airstrikes began an offensive against Taliban insurgents in the Band-e Timor area of Maiwand district and the Reg area of Panjwai district, long-time Taliban strongholds located on a strategic transportation route.[84]A witness in Band-e Timor told Human Rights Watch that the Afghan forces opened fire on men as they attempted to flee, killing Taliban fighters and at least 20 civilians.[85]
Another witness told Human Rights Watch: “When the airplanes came, we fled. But as the people were running away, the forces were shooting them.”[86]He said security force personnel dragged some men from their homes and shot them.[87]The NDS claimed that the air and ground operation killed 50 militants, and that 32 suspects had been detained.[88]
A Kandahar-based civil society activist who had contacted local officials told Human Rights Watch that the forces included NDS 03, as well as counterinsurgency forces of the Afghan National Police under Lt. Col. Sultan Mohammad.[89]The Kandahar police have been accused of systematic human rights violations, including torture, enforced disappearances, and extrajudicial executions.[90]
Several border districts of southern Nangarhar province, particularly Dehbala, Achin, and Khogyani, have seen intense fighting since 2016. Afghan government forces operating with US air support have stepped up military operations in areas that have been controlled or heavily influenced by the Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP), an insurgent group that has affiliated itself with ISIS.[91]Since January 2017, US forces have carried out numerous air operations in eastern Nangarhar province, in some cases accompanying raids by NDS 02 strike forces.[92]
D.D., 65, a resident of Dehbala district, described a deadly night raid in August 2017 that included forces who spoke English, which he identified as NDS 02:
D.D. said that when the forces entered the compound, they shot one of his brothers and a nephew, then detained another brother of his, whom they took when they left:
D.D. said the village held a protest, and he reported the incident to the district governor:
It is unclear whether US or Afghan authorities carried out an investigation. No findings have been made public.
Air operations may precede or follow a night raid. In a number of incidents Human Rights Watch investigated, airstrikes or helicopter-fired munitions killed and injured civilians before or after night raids. The dramatic increase in civilian casualties from US air operations in Afghanistan may reflect a result of changes to tactical directives that eliminated former measures that had reduced civilian harm.
In 2008, civilian harm from US airstrikes in Afghanistan was at what was then an all-time high (it was surpassed in 2018-2019). After UNAMA began publishing reports detailing civilian harm from airstrikes, and Human Rights Watch published its report on civilian casualties,Troops in Contact, NATO created a civilian casualties tracking unit within its mission designed to have direct input to lessons learned that could feed into air operations. The changes that were implemented—including restrictions on targeting, not using explosive weapons with wide impact in populated areas unless troops were under attack, and the use of precise, low-collateral weapons where appropriate—had a measurable impact in terms of reduced civilian casualties.[96]
However, after 2014, NATO’s noncombat Resolute Support mission significantly reduced its civilian casualty tracking team. The Afghan government took over basic tracking of casualties caused by its forces at the Presidential Information Coordination Center, known as the Tawhid Center, which collects information but does not conduct independent investigations.
Since then, the US military has rescinded directives restricting targeting, and has authorized ground troops to approve targets and Afghan special forces to call in airstrikes, even in situations where there is limited information about civilian presence in the identified target area.[97]
On March 10, 2019, an Afghan paramilitary strike force carried out a search in Nasir Khil, a village about four kilometers north of the district center of Hesarak, in Nangarhar province. According to theNew York Timesand witnesses who spoke with Human Rights Watch, the unit was NDS 02. The strike force arrived in the early morning and called in air support after coming under fire. The strikes killed at least 13 civilian members of two families, including several children.[98]One resident told Human Rights Watch:
According to aNew York Timesreport, a Resolute Support spokesperson said that the mission was looking into the situation:
The governor of Nangarhar, Shahmahmood Miakhel, claimed that “an important Taliban commander” had been killed in the strikes, but witnesses said that the airstrikes did not hit a house known to belong to a Taliban commander, instead hitting civilian houses.[101]The father of the killed soldier asked Human Rights Watch, “Why didn’t they know which house?”[102]
On the night of September 22, 2018, US and NDS 01 forces carried out a raid in the village of Mullah Hafiz, Jaghatu district, in Wardak province. The next morning, US forces carried out an airstrike that killed 12 civilians, all of whom were women and children from the same family.[103]The children ranged in age from 4 to 16 years old.[104]
Masih Ur-Rahman Mubarez, whose entire family was killed, told Human Rights Watch that a Taliban prison was located in the area. He said that US forces and Afghan strike forces had been searching for the prison, checking all the houses in the area. He said that in the middle of the night, his wife, Amina, called him to say there was a raid in the village.[105]He told her to keep the phone on so he could reach her.[106]
Mubarez later learned that after he spoke with Amina, fighting had broken out in the village between the Taliban and US and Afghan forces. Sometime between 9 and 10 a.m. the next morning, US forces carried out several airstrikes, one of which destroyed his family’s house and killed everyone inside, including his wife and seven children. He said: “I tried to call my family that morning. I could not reach them. Then a neighbor called and told me my house had been hit.… I have lost everyone—I am alone now.”[107]
Those killed were Masih Ur-Rahman Mubarez’s wife, Amina, 32; daughters Anisa, 14, Safia, 12, Samina, 7, and Fahima, 5; sons Mohammad Wiqad, 10, Mohammad Ilyas, 8, and Fayaz, 4; and nieces Rahmania, 16, Nafisa, 14, Zarifa, 12, and Amina, 10. Mubarez said no one had come from the government to investigate the incident. Because of fighting in the area, Mubarez said that villagers could not retrieve the bodies from under the rubble of the house for two days.[108]
Human Rights Watch documented an increase in Afghan special forces raids on medical facilities between May 2018 and July 2019. The forces that carried these out were NDS 01, NDS 02, the Kandahar Strike Force (NDS 03), and other special forces units, all of which are supported, and sometimes accompanied, by US forces. During these kill-or-capture operations, the forces involved assaulted and, in some cases, killed medical staff; assaulted or killed accompanying civilian or noncombatant caregivers; and caused damage to the facilities.
The laws of war, applicable to the armed conflict in Afghanistan, protects patients, including wounded soldiers, and all medical personnel from attack. Hospitals and other medical facilities are also protected from attack unless they are being used outside their humanitarian function to commit acts harmful to the enemy, such as to fire artillery or store munitions. Commanders and combatants who willfully violate these protections are responsible for war crimes.
Ghazni province has seen significant fighting since August 2018 when the Taliban took control of the city for 10 days before US airstrikes and special forces operations forced them out. The Taliban have maintained a significant presence in many districts of Ghazni province, including Andar, which lies south of Ghazni city.[109]From April 15 to May 7, 2019, US forces carried out 55 airstrikes in Ghazni province, many of them in Andar district, as well as many night raids.[110]
Several raids took place in Andar on May 14, including one in which a strike force unit accompanied by US forces searched an NGO-run clinic.[111]The forces questioned staff members about the identities of patients who had sought treatment at the clinic, specifically a Taliban commander in the area. According to an unpublished report, the forces took the staff members’ phones and searched the contents. They questioned the staff about any explosives in the clinic, then took them to a nearby building, forcing the staff to walk ahead of them in the dark, with the forces taking cover behind them. When the Afghan and US forces left at 3:30 a.m., they took the staff members’ phones with them, as well as the clinic’s patient logbook.[112]
While medical facilities can be searched to ensure they are genuinely providing medical services, using the staff as a civilian shield against insurgent attack, disrupting operations by questioning staff, and stealing medical equipment are all unlawful.
On January 14, 2019, an NDS 03 unit carried out an operation during which they deliberately caused damage to the NGO-run Surmurghab Adda clinic, which provides services to nearby villages.[113]
Before the raid there had been fighting nearby, across a river from the clinic. Taliban fighters had opened fire, and a special forces helicopter had fired on the fighters, killing them.[114]The strike force raid on the clinic began at about 12:30 a.m. A member of the clinic staff said:
On the night of July 8, 2019, a special forces unit identified by witnesses as NDS 01 raided an NGO medical clinic in Day Mirdad, Wardak province. A member of the local health council told Human Rights Watch that at about 9 p.m. on July 8, he heard helicopters and knew a raid was underway. At 5 a.m., he and others from the health council went to the clinic and found the guard’s room shattered by a rocket that had left a crater.[116]
A clinic staff member said that the strike force had tied the hands of all the staff and visiting family caregivers and taken them to a room, where they questioned them about the whereabouts of the Taliban. Then they took four men with them, including the clinic’s director, Dr. Wahidullah, and told the remaining staff to stay in the room.[117]
After the Afghan forces left, villagers discovered the bodies of three of the men who had been taken. The villagers were unable to locate Dr. Wahidullah, whom they believe the forces may have detained. The body of a family caregiver was also found on the premises.[118]
On July 11, the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan, a humanitarian organization that runs the clinic, described the incident as a “shocking violation” of international humanitarian law, and said that “such outrageous use of force against civilians and health facilities constitutes a serious violation of applicable international humanitarian law and it affects provision of health services delivery to the people in the local community.”[119]
A media report cited Haji Waheed Akbarzai, a member of the Wardak provincial assembly, saying that the clinic was located in an area that is under Taliban control. “The Afghan forces raided the hospital because they received information that Taliban [members] were being treated and were hiding there,” he said.[120]
Afghan forces had previously targeted the Day Mirdad clinic. On February 17, 2016, Afghan forces accompanied by international forces raided the facility, dragging away two patients and a visiting 11-year-old and shooting dead all three outside the hospital premises.[121]
On the night of July 9, 2019, a special forces unit carried out a raid on an NGO clinic in the Zamindawar area of Kajaki district, Helmand. Kajaki has been under Taliban control for several years. The clinic provided basic health services and first aid.
The raid began at about 2:30 a.m. when helicopters arrived, dropping the unit. The staff described the unit as commandos who spoke in a Kandahari accent.[122]The modus operandi of arriving by helicopters at night is similar to that of the NDS 03 based at Gekho in Kandahar.
The forces tied the hands of the five clinic staff members and questioned them as to the location of the Taliban, before departing about an hour later.[123]A farmer who lived nearby said that he went to the clinic in the morning and the staff told him the soldiers had beaten them; one had a black eye and others had bruises. They told him the strike force had taken the doctor who was in charge of the clinic to an undisclosed location. According to the clinic staff, he has not been released, and his whereabouts remain unknown.[124]
The armed conflict in Afghanistan is considered to be a non-international conflict under international humanitarian law, or the laws of war. Even though many countries have been involved in the armed conflict in Afghanistan, the fighting does not involve one state engaged in hostilities with another state, so it is considered a non-international armed conflict. As a practical matter, the laws of war are largely the same for international and non-international armed conflicts.
Afghanistan’s armed conflict is governed by law set out in treaties and in the rules of customary international law.[125]The most important treaty law is Common Article 3 to the Geneva Conventions of 1949, which sets forth minimum standards for all parties to non-international conflicts.[126]Afghanistan is also party to Protocol II to the Geneva Conventions, which provides further protections for combatants and civilians during non-international armed conflicts.[127]
All parties to Afghanistan’s armed conflict—including non-state armed groups—are responsible for complying with the requirements of international humanitarian law. This obligation does not depend on reciprocity; parties to a conflict must respect the requirements whether or not the opposing side abides by them.[128]
The laws of war provide protections to civilians and other noncombatants from the hazards of armed conflict. It addresses the conduct of hostilities—the means and methods of warfare—by all sides. Foremost are the principles of “civilian immunity” and “distinction”—the requirements that civilians may never be the deliberate target of attacks and that parties to a conflict must distinguish at all times between combatants and civilians, and between military objectives and civilian objects.[129]Parties to the conflict are required to take all feasible precautions to minimize harm to civilians and civilian objects, and to not carry out attacks that fail to discriminate between combatants and civilians, or would cause disproportionate harm to the civilian population.[130]
Common Article 3 provides a number of fundamental protections for civilians and those who are no longer taking part in hostilities, such as captured combatants and those who have surrendered or are unable to fight because of wounds or illness. It prohibits violence against them—particularly murder, cruel treatment, and torture—as well as outrages against their personal dignity and degrading or humiliating treatment.[131]
Even during armed conflicts, international human rights law remains in effect. Afghanistan and the other countries involved in the fighting are all party to a number of human rights treaties, including the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment.[132]These treaties outline guarantees for fundamental rights, many of which correspond to the rights to which combatants and civilians are entitled under international humanitarian law (for example, the right to a fair trial and the prohibition on torture and inhuman and degrading treatment).
International law prohibits enforced disappearances, which are defined as the arrest or detention of anyone by government forces or their agents followed by a refusal to acknowledge the detention or whereabouts of the person.[133]
Under international human rights law, detainees are entitled to judicial review of the legality of their detention, and all the rights to a fair trial, including the right to be tried and convicted for a criminal offense only by a court of law. Unacknowledged detention is prohibited at all times.[134]
The laws of war limit attacks to “military objectives.” Military objectives are personnel and objects that are making an effective contribution to military action and whose destruction, capture, or neutralization offers a definite military advantage.[135]This would include enemy fighters, weapons and ammunition, and objects being used for military purposes. While humanitarian law recognizes that some civilian casualties are inevitable during armed conflict, it imposes a duty on parties to the conflict at all times to distinguish between combatants and civilians, and to target only combatants and other military objectives.
Combatants include members of a country’s armed forces and commanders and fighters in non-state armed groups.[136]They are subject to attack at all times during hostilities unless they are captured or incapacitated. Civilians lose their immunity from attack when and only for such time as they are “directly participating in hostilities.”[137]The International Committee of the Red Cross says that the laws of war distinguish members of the organized fighting forces of a non-state party, who may be targeted when there is fighting, from those who assume exclusively political, administrative, or other non-combat functions, who may not be targeted even when there is fighting. An individual recruited, trained, and equipped by a non-state armed group is considered integrated into that group even before carrying out a hostile act at a time of fighting.[138]
The laws of war also protect “civilian objects,” which are defined as anything not considered a military objective. Direct attacks against civilian objects—such as homes, apartments and civilian businesses, places of worship, medical clinics and hospitals, and schools—are prohibited unless they are being used for military purposes and thus become military objectives.[139]This would be the case if military forces are deployed in what are normally civilian objects. Where there is doubt about the nature of an object, the attacking force must presume it to be civilian.[140]
Direct attacks on civilians and civilian objects, as noted above, are prohibited.[141]The laws of war also prohibit indiscriminate attacks, which strike military objectives and civilians or civilian objects without distinction. Examples are attacks that are not directed at a specific military objective or that use weapons that cannot be directed at a specific military objective.[142]
Military commanders must choose a means of attack that can be directed at military targets and will minimize incidental harm to civilians. If the weapons used are so inaccurate that they cannot be directed at military targets without imposing a substantial risk of civilian harm, then they should not be deployed.
Attacks that violate the principle of proportionality are also prohibited. An attack is disproportionate if it may be expected to cause incidental loss of civilian life or damage to civilian objects that would be excessive in relation to the concrete and direct military advantage anticipated from the attack.[143]
The laws of war do not prohibit fighting in urban areas, although the presence of many civilians places greater obligations on parties to the conflict to take steps to minimize harm to civilians. Parties to a conflict are required to take constant care during military operations to spare the civilian population and “take all feasible precautions” to avoid or minimize the incidental loss of civilian life and damage to civilian objects.[144]These precautions include doing everything feasible to verify that the objects of attack are military objectives and not civilians or civilian objects, and giving “effective advance warning” of attacks when circumstances permit.[145]
Forces must take all feasible precautions to protect civilians under their control from the effects of attacks.[146]They should remove civilians from the vicinity of military operations and avoid locating military objectives near densely populated areas.[147]They are prohibited from deliberately using civilians to shield military objectives or operations from attack.[148]
The attacking party is not relieved of its obligation to take into account the risk to civilians simply because it considers the defending party responsible for locating legitimate military targets within or near populated areas. The use of explosive weapons with wide-area effects (weapons with a wide blast radius or indirect-fire weapons without adequate spotting) against military objectives in populated areas heightens concerns of unlawful indiscriminate and disproportionate attacks.[149]All parties to armed conflict should thus avoid the use of explosive weapons with a wide impact area in populated areas.[150]
Medical units are civilian objects that have special protections under the laws of war. They include hospitals, clinics, medical centers and similar facilities, whether military or civilian. While other presumptively civilian structures become military objectives if they are being used for a military purpose, hospitals lose their protection from attack only if they are being used, outside their humanitarian function, to commit “acts harmful to the enemy.”[151]
Several types of acts do not constitute “acts harmful to the enemy,” such as the presence of armed guards or when small arms from the wounded are found in the hospital. Even if military forces misuse a hospital to store weapons or shelter able-bodied combatants, the attacking force must issue a warning to cease this misuse, setting a reasonable time limit for it to end, and attacking only after such a warning has gone unheeded.[152]
Under the laws of war, doctors, nurses, and other medical personnel must be permitted to provide care and attention to the wounded and sick without adverse distinction. They may not be punished for performing their medical duties.[153]
Armed personnel may enter medical facilities “for legitimate purposes such as searching for alleged criminals; interrogating and arresting suspects; searching for and arresting combatants or fighters posing an imperative threat to their security; or verifying that a medical unit is not used for military purposes.” At the same time, the military personnel may not disrupt the normal functioning of the medical facility, interfering with or denying medical treatment.[154]
Serious violations of international humanitarian law committed with criminal intent—that is, deliberately or recklessly—are war crimes. War crimes, listed in the “grave breaches” provisions of the Geneva Conventions and as customary law in the International Criminal Court statute and other sources, include a wide array of offenses for which individuals may be held criminally liable—deliberate, indiscriminate, and disproportionate attacks harming civilians; hostage taking; using human shields; and imposing collective punishment, among others.[155]Individuals also may be held criminally liable for attempting to commit a war crime, as well as assisting in, facilitating, aiding, or abetting a war crime.
Responsibility also may fall on people planning or instigating a war crime.[156]Commanders and civilian leaders may be prosecuted for war crimes as a matter of command responsibility when they knew or should have known about the commission of war crimes and took insufficient measures to prevent them or punish those responsible.[157]
Ensuring justice for serious violations is, in the first instance, the responsibility of the country whose nationals are implicated in the violations. Governments have an obligation to investigate serious violations that implicate their officials or other people under their jurisdiction. The government must ensure that military or domestic courts or other institutions impartially investigate whether serious violations occurred, identifying and prosecuting the individuals responsible for those violations in accordance with international fair trial standards, and imposing punishments on individuals found guilty that are commensurate with their deeds.[158]
While non-state armed groups do not have the same legal obligation to prosecute violators of the laws of war within their ranks, they are nonetheless responsible for ensuring compliance with the laws of war and have a responsibility when they do conduct trials to do so in accordance with international fair trial standards.[159]
This report was written by Patricia Gossman, associate Asia director at Human Rights Watch. Brad Adams, Asia director, edited the report. James Ross, legal and policy director, and Joseph Saunders, deputy program director, provided legal and program review. John Sifton, Asia advocacy director, and Andrea Prasow, deputy Washington director, provided additional review. The report was prepared for publication by Jose Martinez, administrative officer, and Fitzroy Hepkins, senior administrative manager.
Human Rights Watch wishes to thank those who agreed to be interviewed in Afghanistan, those who facilitated research, and the many Afghan activists, lawyers, health care providers, and rights advocates who provided input. In deference to their concerns, we have honored their requests for anonymity.

[1]UNAMA, “Midyear Update on the Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict: 1 January to 30 June 2019,” July 30, 2019, https://unama.unmissions.org/sites/default/files/unama_poc_midyear_update_2019_-_30_july_english.pdf (accessed August 22, 2019).
[2]Ibid. Between January 1 and June 30, 2019, UNAMA recorded 519 civilian casualties (363 deaths and 156 injured), 150 of which were children (89 deaths and 61 injured), a 39 percent increase from aerial operations in comparison to the first half of 2018. UNAMA also documented 218 civilian casualties (159 deaths and 59 injured) as a result of search operations, more than half of which were caused by NDS special forces. In the first half of 2018, such search operations caused 122 civilian casualties (99 deaths and 23 injured).
[3]Open Society Foundations and The Liaison Office, “The Cost of Kill/Capture: Impact of the Night Raid Surge on Afghan Civilians,” September 2011, https://www.opensocietyfoundations.org/publications/cost-killcapture-impact-night-raid-surge-afghan-civilians (accessed August 22, 2019).
[4]Adding to the 50,000 already there. “Afghanistan War: Trump’s Allies and Troop Numbers,”BBC News, August 22, 2017, https://www.bbc.com/news/world-41014263 (accessed August 22, 2019).
[5]Open Society Foundations and The Liaison Office, “The Cost of Kill/Capture.”
[6]Human Rights Watch telephone interview with military analyst, September 21, 2019.
[7]Before 2011, the CIA was already working with some Afghan units as “counterterrorism pursuit teams,” created to “pursue” Al-Qaeda militants into Pakistan, where the US military had no legal authority to conduct operations. Some of these units, particularly the Khost Protection Force and Kandahar Strike Force, conducted operations inside Afghanistan. In 2013, then-President Hamid Karzai responded to public protests over disappearances and killings by US forces during night raids in Maidan Wardak by greatly restricting the use of such raids. However, when President Ashraf Ghani took office in September 2014, he lifted the restrictions and authorized the presence of US special operations forces to accompany Afghan forces in an “advisory” capacity during the raids. John Wendle, “Fear and Loathing in Afghanistan,”Independent, March 12, 2013, https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/asia/fear-and-loathing-in-afghanistan-8531601.html (accessed October 19, 2019); Rod Nordland and Taimoor Shah, “Afghanistan Quietly Lifts Ban on Nighttime Raids,”New York Times, November 23, 2014, https://www.nytimes.com/2014/11/24/world/asia/afghanistan-quietly-lifts-ban-on-night-raids.html (accessed October 19, 2019).
[8]Mujib Mashal, “C.I.A.’s Afghan Forces Leave a Trail of Abuse and Anger,”New York Times, December 31, 2018, https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/31/world/asia/cia-afghanistan-strike-force.html (accessed August 5, 2019). Members of these forces are paid about US$1,000 monthly, much more than an ordinary soldier. Stefanie Glinski, “How the CIA Aims to Keep a Footprint in Afghanistan,”Foreign Policy, August 8, 2019, https://foreignpolicy.com/2019/08/08/how-the-cia-aims-to-keep-a-footprint-in-afghanistan-taliban-talks/ (accessed August 20, 2019).
[9]Wesley Morgan, “U.S. Soldier Killed in Afghanistan Was Part of CIA Operation,”Politico, July 24, 2018, https://www.politico.com/story/2018/07/24/afghanistan-defense-cia-operation-704929 (accessed August 20, 2019).
[10]Ibid.
[11]Human Rights Watch telephone and text interviews with military analyst and former US special forces officer, September 11 and 15, 2019.
[12]For extensive documentation of this effort, see Steve Coll,Directorate S: The C.I.A. and America’s Secret Wars in Afghanistan and Pakistan(New York: Penguin Press, 2018).
[13]International Crisis Group, “A Force in Fragments: Reconstituting the Afghan National Army,” May 12, 2010.
[14]In 2002, President Bush gave written legal authority to the CIA to “hunt down and kill the terrorists without seeking further approval.” James Risen and David Johnston, “Threats and Responses: Hunt for Al Qaeda; Bush Has Widened Authority of C.I.A. to Kill Terrorists,”New York Times, December 15, 2002, https://www.nytimes.com/2002/12/15/world/threats-responses-hunt-for-al-qaeda-bush-has-widened-authority-cia-kill.html (accessed October 9, 2019); Human Rights Watch,“Enduring Freedom”: Abuses by U.S. Forces in Afghanistan, March 2004, https://www.hrw.org/report/2004/03/07/enduring-freedom/abuses-us-forces-afghanistan; Coll,Directorate S; Bob Woodward,Obama’s Wars(New York: Simon and Schuster, 2010).
[15]Human Rights Watch telephone interview with military analyst, September 21, 2019; Coll,Directorate S, p. 118, 160-161, 237; Morgan, “U.S. Soldier Killed in Afghanistan Was Part of CIA Operation,”Politico.
[16]Michael E. DeVine, “Covert Action and Clandestine Activities of the Intelligence Community: Selected Definitions in Brief,” Congressional Research Service, June 14, 2019, https://fas.org/sgp/crs/intel/R45175.pdf (accessed September 26, 2019); Mashal, “C.I.A.’s Afghan Forces Leave a Trail of Abuse and Anger,”New York Times; Glinski, “How the CIA Aims to Keep a Footprint in Afghanistan,”Foreign Policy; Kate Clark, “What Exactly is the CIA Doing in Afghanistan? Proxy Militias and Two Airstrikes in Kunar,” Afghanistan Analysts Network, April 28, 2013, https://www.afghanistan-analysts.org/what-exactly-is-the-cia-doing-in-afghanistan-proxy-militias-and-two-airstrikes-in-kunar (accessed October 8, 2019); Coll,Directorate S.
[17]Kenneth Anderson, “CIA, Drones and Proxy Forces, and the Exit from Afghanistan,”Lawfare, March 3, 2012, https://www.lawfareblog.com/cia-drones-and-proxy-forces-and-exit-afghanistan (accessed October 9, 2019); Morgan, “U.S. Soldier Killed in Afghanistan Was Part of CIA Operation,”Politico.
[18]Thomas Gibbons-Neff, Eric Schmitt, and Adam Goldman, “A Newly Assertive C.I.A. Expands Its Taliban Hunt in Afghanistan,”New York Times, October 22, 2017, https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/22/world/asia/cia-expanding-taliban-fight-afghanistan.html (accessed August 23, 2019).
[19]UNAMA has documented abuses by the Khost Protection Force for many years. In its 2018 annual report, UNAMA stated: “The Khost Protection Force is a pro-Government paramilitary group that has carried out specialized operations in the southeast of Afghanistan since at least 2007. It functions outside of the regular military command and control structures, does not exist in the official Governmenttashkil, and its operations are often not coordinated with local authorities or the National Directorate of Security.… The vast majority of civilian deaths attributed to the Khost Protection Force were caused by intentional shooting, mostly in the context of search operations.” See also Sudarsan Raghavan, “CIA Runs Shadow War with Afghan Militia Implicated in Civilian Killings,”Washington Post, December 3, 2015, https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/cia-backed-afghan-militias-fight-a-shadow-war/2015/12/02/fe5a0526-913f-11e5-befa-99ceebcbb272_story.html (accessed October 8, 2019). The Wikileaks war logs, released in 2010, contain references to the CIA’s private army in Khost. Martin Smith and Stephen Grey, “The Secret War,” PBS Frontline, January 3, 2012, https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/frontline/film/secret-war/ (accessed October 8, 2019); Jules Cavendish, “CIA Trains Covert Units of Afghans to Continue the Fight against Taliban,”Independent, July 20, 2011, https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/asia/cia-trains-covert-units-of-afghans-to-continue-the-fight-against-taliban-2317182.html (accessed October 8, 2019).
[20]Aimal Faizy, then spokesperson for President Hamid Karzai, called the NDS 04 a “CIA proxy” that was “not armed by the NDS, not paid by the NDS, and not sent to operations by the NDS.” Emma Graham-Harrison, “Hamid Karzai Seeks to Curb CIA Operations in Afghanistan,”Guardian, April 19, 2013, https://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/apr/19/hamid-karzai-curb-cia-afghanistan-operations (accessed October 8, 2019); Clark, “What Exactly is the CIA Doing in Afghanistan?” Afghanistan Analysts Network.
[21]While UNAMA reported on NDS special forces working with international forces in its 2017 annual report, it did not name the individual NDS 01 and 02 units until 2018. Human Rights Watch first investigated a night raid by 02 in 2017.
[22]Mashal, “C.I.A.’s Afghan Forces Leave a Trail of Abuse and Anger,”New York Times; Glinski, “How the CIA Aims to Keep a Footprint in Afghanistan,”Foreign Policy.
[23]Human Rights Watch telephone and text interviews with military analysts and former US special forces officer, September 11, 15, and 21, 2019.
[24]Craig Nelson, “Afghans Supported by U.S. Repel Taliban to Increase Leverage in Talks,”Wall Street Journal, June 25, 2019, https://www.wsj.com/articles/afghans-supported-by-u-s-repel-taliban-to-increase-leverage-in-talks-11561392312 (accessed October 9, 2019).
[25]US Department of Defense, “Enhancing Security and Stability in Afghanistan,” June 2019, https://media.defense.gov/2019/Jul/12/2002156816/-1/-1/1/ENHANCING-SECURITY-AND-STABILITY-IN-AFGHANISTAN.PDF (accessed October 9, 2019).
[26]DeVine, “Covert Action and Clandestine Activities of the Intelligence Community,” Congressional Research Service.
[27]“NATO and Afghanistan,” March 5, 2019, https://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/topics_8189.htm (accessed October 18, 2019).
[28]In Afghanistan, these include US Army Rangers, who partner with Afghanistan’s Ktah Khas counterterrorism brigade, created in 2009, which relies on the US for intelligence, targeting, and air transportation. Human Rights Watch telephone and text interviews with military analysts and former US special forces officer, September 11, 15, and 21, 2019.
[29]Ibid.
[30]UNAMA, “Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict: Annual Report 2018,” February 2019, https://unama.unmissions.org/sites/default/files/unama_annual_protection_of_civilians_report_2018_-_23_feb_2019_-_english.pdf (accessed September 10, 2019); Gibbons-Neff, Schmitt, and Goldman, “A Newly Assertive C.I.A. Expands Its Taliban Hunt in Afghanistan,”New York Times; Astri Suhrke and Antonio De Lauri, “The CIA’s ‘Army’: A Threat to Human Rights and an Obstacle to Peace in Afghanistan,” Brown University, August 21, 2019, https://watson.brown.edu/costsofwar/files/cow/imce/papers/2019/Costs%20of%20War%2C%20CIA%20Afghanistan_Aug%2021%2C%202019.pdf (accessed August 23, 2019).
[31]Gibbons-Neff, Schmitt, and Goldman, “A Newly Assertive C.I.A. Expands Its Taliban Hunt in Afghanistan,”New York Times.
[32]CIA Director Mike Pompeo, “Remarks at UT Austin National Security Forum,” October 12, 2017, https://www.cia.gov/news-information/speeches-testimony/2017-speeches-testimony/pompeo-delivers-remarks-at-ut-austin-national-security-forum.html (accessed September 12, 2019).
[33]UNAMA, “Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict: Annual Report 2018,” p. 36.
[34]UNAMA, “Midyear Update on the Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict: 1 January to 30 June 2019.”
[35]Atashkilis the Afghan government’s official list of required ANA and ANP personnel by position and rank. UNAMA, “Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict: Annual Report 2018,” p. 37.
[36]Ibid., p. 42.
[37]Richard Bennett (@richard11215), Twitter, August 15, 2019, https://twitter.com/richard11215/status/1162190350951170048 (accessed August 22, 2019).
[38]Suhrke and De Lauri, “The CIA’s ‘Army,’” Brown University.
[39]Gibbons-Neff, Schmitt, and Goldman, “A Newly Assertive C.I.A. Expands Its Taliban Hunt in Afghanistan,”New York Times.
[40]“Throughout 2018, UNAMA documented a steady increase in civilian casualties caused by aerial operations by Pro-Government Forces. This follows from a relaxation of the rules of engagement for airstrikes by United States forces in Afghanistan at the end of 2017. In 2018, UNAMA documented … a 61 percent increase in civilian casualties from this tactic from 2017. This is the highest number of civilian casualties from airstrikes in a single year since UNAMA began systematic documentation in 2009.” UNAMA, “Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict: Annual Report 2018,” p. 38. UNAMA noted a further 39 percent increase in civilian casualties from air operations in the first half of 2018. UNAMA, “Midyear update on the protection of civilians in armed conflict: 1 January to 30 June 2019.”
[41]Jessica Purkiss, Abigail Fielding-Smith, and Emran Feroz, “CIA-Backed Afghan Unit Accused of Atrocities Is Able to Call in Air Strikes,” Bureau of Investigative Journalism, February 8, 2019, https://www.thebureauinvestigates.com/stories/2019-02-08/cia-backed-afghan-unit-atrocities (accessed October 10, 2019).
[42]With the advent of President Trump’s South Asia policy in August 2017 which abrogated tactical directives that had imposed constraints on US military operations, Afghanistan has witnessed an unprecedented increase in air operations and dropped munitions. Aaron Mehta, “Mattis Reveals New Rules of Engagement,”Military Times, October 3, 2017, https://www.militarytimes.com/flashpoints/2017/10/03/mattis-reveals-new-rules-of-engagement (accessed August 18, 2019). For more on the tactical directives and how they reduced civilian casualties, see Marc Garlasco, “How to Fix the US Military’s Broken Targeting System,”Just Security, December 12, 2017, https://www.justsecurity.org/49133/fix-militarys-broken-targeting-system/ (accessed August 18, 2019); Center for Civilians in Conflict, “Civilian Harm Tracking: Analysis of ISAF Efforts in Afghanistan,” 2014, https://civiliansinconflict.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/09/ISAF_Civilian_Harm_Tracking.pdf (accessed August 18, 2019). Human Rights Watch made recommendations on these directives in its 2008 report,Troops in Contact: Airstrikes and Civilian Deaths in Afghanistan,September 2008, https://www.hrw.org/sites/default/files/reports/afghanistan0908web_0.pdf.
[43]In 2008, Gen. Stanley McChrystal, then serving as the top US commander in Afghanistan, banned airstrikes that targeted residential buildings except in the most extreme cases. “The directive calls for military commanders to ‘scrutinize’ and ‘limit’ the use of close air support (CAS) against residential compounds and other areas likely to result in civilian casualties.” Jonathan Burch, “New U.S. Combat Order to Cut Afghan Civilian Deaths,” Reuters,July 6, 2009, https://www.reuters.com/article/us-afghanistan-civilian-casualties-sb-idUSTRE56549C20090706 (accessed August 18, 2019).
[44]Abigail Fielding-Smith and Jessica Purkiss, “US Ends Blackout on Afghan Air Strike Data,” Bureau of Investigative Journalism, October 5, 2018, https://www.thebureauinvestigates.com/stories/2018-10-05/us-resumes-release-of-afghan-strike-data (accessed August 18, 2019). This data did not include drone operations or other air operations by other agencies, notably the CIA.
[45]Ibid.
[46]President Karzai’s spokesperson at the time referred to the unit as a counterterrorism pursuit team. The term has been applied to other US-backed Afghan paramilitary forces. Rod Nordland, “After Airstrike, Afghan Points to C.I.A. and Secret Militias,”New York Times, April 18, 2013, https://www.nytimes.com/2013/04/19/world/asia/after-airstrike-afghan-points-to-cia-and-secret-militias.html (accessed September 2, 2019).
[47]UNAMA, “Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict: Annual Report 2018,” p. 41, fn. 158.
[48]Kate Clark, “CIA-Proxy Militias, CIA-Drones in Afghanistan: ‘Hunt and Kill’ Deja Vu,” Afghanistan Analysts Network, October 26, 2017, https://www.afghanistan-analysts.org/cia-proxy-militias-cia-drones-in-afghanistan-hunt-and-kill-deja-vu (accessed September 1, 2019).
[49]Clark, “What Exactly is the CIA Doing in Afghanistan?” Afghanistan Analysts Network.
[50]“The Khost Protection Force emerged out of the 25th Division of the ‘Afghan Military Forces,’ the term used to describe the various Afghan armed forces that came under formal Ministry of Defence command in 2001 and 2002 and received US funding.… The Afghan Military Forces encompassed a wide range of militias and forces drawn from the Northern Alliance and those loyal to pro-US Pashtun commanders. The 25th Division in Khost was unusual in that it had a high proportion of former members of the PDPA army, from the party’s Khalqi wing.… The 25th Division was spared Disarmament, Demobilisation and Reintegration (DDR) because of its good links to the CIA.” Kate Clark, “Khost Protection Force Accused of Fresh Killings: Six Men Shot Dead in Zurmat,” Afghanistan Analysts Network, January 21, 2019, https://www.afghanistan-analysts.org/khost-protection-force-accused-of-fresh-killings-six-men-shot-dead-in-zurmat/ (accessed August 22, 2019).
[51]UNAMA, “Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict: Annual Report 2018,” p. 36.
[52]Clark, “Khost Protection Force Accused of Fresh Killings,” Afghanistan Analysts Network; Mashal, “C.I.A.’s Afghan Forces Leave a Trail of Abuse and Anger,”New York Times. In previous years, UNAMA documented KPF incidents exclusively in Khost province; in 2018, however, it noted a geographic expansion in KPF operations, with 14 incidents with civilian casualties in Khost, four in Paktika, and four in Paktia. UNAMA, “Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict: Annual Report 2018.”
[53]For example, after an NDS 01 raid killed three members of a family in Jabal Saraj, Parwan province, on the night of November 23, 2018, villagers blocked the Parwan-Kabul highway in protest, claiming that the forces had been searching for a known criminal and had targeted the family by mistake. Farid Tanha, “3 Civilians Killed, 4 Injured in Parwan Overnight Raid,”Pajhwok, November 23, 2018, https://www.pajhwok.com/en/2018/11/23/3-civilians-killed-4-injured-parwan-overnight-raid (accessed September 1, 2019). Following numerous night raids in Wardak province in July 2019, residents threatened to close roads and “boycott” the government. “If Civilian Killings Continue, We Will Boycott Govt,”Pajhwok, July 22, 2019, https://www.pajhwok.com/en/2019/07/22/%E2%80%98if-civilian-killings-continue-we-will-boycott-govt%E2%80%99 (accessed September 1, 2019).
[54]Human Rights Watch email correspondence with NGO staff member, Kabul, July 17, 2019.
[55]In some cases where operations are closer to the forces’ command center, or do not entail extensive travel through insurgent-held territory, the units may travel by road.
[56]“Americans have a presence at bases where detainees have accused the units of torture and abuse, officials say.… Sabrina Hamidi, who leads the Afghan Human Rights Commission in the east, said that during her 13 years of work at the commission, she could not recall a single example of access to the regional forces to examine accusation of abuses. ‘In their operations, most of the times the harm to civilians is direct,’ Ms. Hamidi said about the 02 unit. ‘When they make arrests, there is usually torture involved, also.’” Mashal, “C.I.A.’s Afghan Forces Leave a Trail of Abuse and Anger,”New York Times.
[57]Open Society Foundations and The Liaison Office, “The Cost of Kill/Capture.”
[58]Ibid.
[59]Human Rights Watch telephone interview with NGO staff member, Kabul, July 16, 2019. Identifying details of the raid have been withheld to protect the source.
[60]NDS 01 took credit for the raid in a tweet on August 12; other media reported it as well. NDS 01 Unit (@NDS_Afghanistan), Twitter, August 12, 2019, https://twitter.com/NDS_Afghanistan/status/1160810703357468675 (accessed August 24, 2019); “11 Civilians Killed in Special Unit’s Raid in Paktia: Residents,”Tolo News, August 14, 2019, https://www.tolonews.com/afghanistan/11-civilians-killed-special-unit%E2%80%99s-raid-paktia-residents (accessed August 24, 2019).
[61]Human Rights Watch telephone interview with Afghan human rights activist who interviewed the relatives of the victims, August 16, 2019.
[62]Thomas Ruttig and AAN team, “‘Murder Is Always’: The Kulalgo Night Raid Killings,” Afghanistan Analysts Network,August 17, 2019, https://www.afghanistan-analysts.org/murder-is-always-the-kulalgo-night-raid-killings (accessed August 24, 2019).
[63]Ibid.
[64]Ibid.
[65]Tolo News (@TOLOnews), Twitter, August 12, 2019, https://twitter.com/TOLOnews/status/1160822773780025344?s=20 (accessed August 25, 2019).
[66]Common Article 3 of the 1949 Geneva Conventions prohibits at any time and in any place whatsoever “violence to life and person, in particular murder of all kinds” and “the carrying out of executions without previous judgment pronounced by a regularly constituted court, affording all the judicial guarantees which are recognized as indispensable by civilized peoples” with respect to “persons taking no active part in hostilities, including members of armed forces who have laid down their arms and those placedhors de combatby sickness, wounds, detention, or any other cause.” See International Committee of the Red Cross, “Customary Law: Practice Relating to Rule 89. Violence to Life,” https://ihl-databases.icrc.org/customary-ihl/eng/docs/v2_rul_rule89 (accessed August 24, 2019).
[67]UNAMA, “Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict: Annual Report 2018,” p. 43.
[68]Clark, “Khost Protection Force Accused of Fresh Killings,” Afghanistan Analysts Network.
[69]The families were known to be staunchly anti-Haqqani, which makes any accusation of supporting the Taliban baffling. For an in-depth analysis of the possible political motivations for the killings, see Clark, “Khost Protection Force Accused of Fresh Killings,” Afghanistan Analysts Network.
[70]UNAMA, “Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict: Annual Report 2018,” p. 43.
[71]The district first garnered international media attention when US Green Berets established themselves at a US military base there in late 2012. By my mid-2013, they had left under a cloud as evidence of alleged war crimes came to light. Over a period of months, US special forces had detained 18 Nerkh men whose bodies were found in a shallow grave near the base or elsewhere in the vicinity. UNAMA stated that the disappearances and killings—if proven to be the responsibility of a party to the conflict—amounted to war crimes. In August 2015, the US military reopened a criminal investigation into 17 alleged murders of civilians by the special forces team. Matthieu Aikens, “The A-Team Killings,”Rolling Stone, November 6, 2013, https://www.rollingstone.com/interactive/feature-a-team-killings-afghanistan-special-forces/ (accessed August 24, 2019); Rod Nordland, “U.S. Army Reopens Criminal Inquiry into Afghan Civilians’ Deaths,”New York Times,August 24, 2015, https://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/25/world/asia/us-army-reopens-criminal-inquiry-into-afghan-civilians-deaths.html (accessed August 24, 2019). The findings of that investigation have not been made public.
[72]Human Rights Watch interview with M., Kabul, November 5, 2018.
[73]The US Forces-Resolute Support press release on the October 8 airstrikes in Wardak has been removed. Bureau of Investigative Journalism, “Afghanistan: Reported US Covert Actions 2018,” https://www.thebureauinvestigates.com/drone-war/data/afghanistan-reported-us-covert-actions-2018 (accessed September 11, 2019).
[74]Human Rights Watch interview with D.D., Kabul, November 5, 2018.
[75]Human Rights Watch telephone interview with M.M., April 13, 2019. Camp Gekho is a US base located west of Kandahar city.
[76]Fahim Abed, “Afghan War Casualty Report: April 5-11,”New York Times, April 11, 2019, https://www.nytimes.com/2019/04/11/magazine/afghan-war-casualty-report.html (accessed August 25, 2019).
[77]Human Rights Watch telephone interview with M.M., April 13, 2019.
[78]Mujib Mashal (@MujMash), Twitter, April 11, 2019, https://twitter.com/MujMash/status/1116224969741164544 (accessed August 25, 2019). Human Rights Watch has been unable to learn if any had been released. The arrest or detention of anyone by government forces followed by a refusal to acknowledge the detention or whereabouts of the person, is considered an enforced disappearance under human rights law. International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance, adopted December 20, 2006, G.A. Res. 177 (LXI), U.N. Doc. A/RES/61/177 (2006), entered into force December 23, 2010.
[79]Human Rights Watch telephone interview with M.M., April 13, 2019.
[80]Human Rights Watch interview with G.G., November 4, 2018.
[81]Ibid.
[82]Bureau of Investigative Journalism, “Afghanistan: Reported US Covert Actions 2018.”
[83]Ibid.; Human Rights Watch interview with G.G., November 4, 2018. The NDS pays up to 100,000 afghanis (US$1,280) in cases of wrongful death.
[84]“‘Dozens’ of Taliban Militants Killed in Southern Afghanistan,” Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, February 2, 2018, https://www.rferl.org/a/afghanistan-kandahar-dozens-taliban-killed/29011526.html (accessed October 6, 2018). Band-e Timor was a Taliban stronghold before 2002. In April 2002, Ishaqzai tribal elders in Band-e Timor, who had supported the Taliban, pledged their allegiance to President Hamid Karzai. However, Gul Agha Sherzai, the former governor of Kandahar whose depredations helped pave the way for a Taliban takeover in 1994, saw the Ishaqzai as rivals and informed US officials that they were all Taliban sympathizers. In a single operation in May 2002, US special forces raided villages in the district. The US forces shot and wounded several men and detained 55. Haji Burget Khan, the most senior elder in the community who had persuaded the others to support Karzai, died of gunshot wounds five days later. Over the next two years, Band-e Timor became a stronghold of the Taliban resurgence. Gul Agha Sherzai again became governor of Kandahar and was implicated in a number of corruption scandals related to lucrative US contracts for the Kandahar airfield and US military base. See Anand Gopal, “Dick Cheney’s Gift to the Middle East: How America Created an Afghan Blackwater,”Salon, April 12, 2015, https://www.salon.com/2015/04/12/dick_cheneys_gift_to_the_middle_east_how_america_created_an_afghan‌_blackwater_partner/ (accessed August 26, 2019).
[85]Human Rights Watch telephone interview with witness in Kandahar, February 14, 2018.
[86]Human Rights Watch interview with witness from Kandahar, Kabul, February 14, 2018.
[87]Human Rights Watch email correspondence with witness in Kabul, February 16, 2018.
[88]“50 Taliban Militants Killed in Kandahar Offensive,”Tolo News, February 2, 2018,https://www.tolonews.com/afghanistan/50-taliban-militants-killed-kandahar-offensive (accessed August 26, 2019).
[89]Human Rights Watch interview with witness from Kandahar, Kabul, February 14, 2018. See also “‘Dozens’ of Taliban Militants Killed in Southern Afghanistan,” Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty.
[90]Human Rights Watch,“Today We Shall All Die”: Afghanistan’s Strongmen and the Legacy of Impunity, March 2015, https://www.hrw.org/report/2015/03/03/today-we-shall-all-die/afghanistans-strongmen-and-legacy-impunity.
[91]The ISKP emerged in 2015 out of a loose affiliation of militant organizations driven out of Pakistan by military operations in 2009-2010. ISKP has exercised brutal control over these districts, extorting taxes, forcing schools and clinics to close, and summarily executing some who resisted. ISKP cells have carried out suicide bombings in Jalalabad, Kabul, and other cities, killing and injuring hundreds of civilians. Human Rights Watch,“No Safe Place”: Insurgent Attacks on Civilians in Afghanistan, May 2018,https://www.hrw.org/sites/default/files/report_pdf/afghanistan0518_web_1.pdf, p. 8-11.
[92]In December 2017 and February 2018, Human Rights Watch interviewed residents from Nangarhar districts who said that some of these air operations killed and injured civilians. Human Rights Watch, “Afghanistan: Weak Investigations into Civilian Airstrike Deaths,” May 16, 2018, https://www.hrw.org/news/2018/05/16/afghanistan-weak-investigations-civilian-airstrike-deaths.
[93]Human Rights Watch interview with D.D., Jalalabad, November 30, 2017.
[94]Ibid.
[95]Ibid.
[96]Tactical directives that NATO’s International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) put in place after 2007 were a major factor in reducing civilian deaths by airstrikes in Afghanistan by nearly 70 percent from 2008 to 2012. See Garlasco, “How to Fix the US Military’s Broken Targeting System,”Just Security.
[97]Previously, under the tactical directives, every strike directed against a building had to be authorized by an admiral or general. “In practice, this means that a strike approval coming from a flag officer sitting in an operations center has myriad checks and balances.… Relinquishing this authority to troops in the field potentially curtails many of the checks and balances built into the system to protect civilians.” Garlasco, “How to Fix the US Military’s Broken Targeting System,”Just Security.
[98]Zabihullah Ghazi and Fahim Abed, “13 Civilians Reported Killed in U.S. Airstrikes in Afghanistan,”New York Times, March 10, 2019, https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/10/world/asia/airstrikes-nangarhar-afghanistan.html (accessed August 26, 2019).
[99]Human Rights Watch telephone interview with witness in Nangarhar, April 13, 2019.
[100]Statement attributed to Sgt. First Class Debra Richardson, who added that “the Afghans had been targeting a Taliban operations center.” Ghazi and Abed, “13 Civilians Reported Killed in U.S. Airstrikes in Afghanistan,”New York Times.
[101]Bureau of Investigative Journalism, “Afghanistan: Reported US Covert Actions 2019,” https://www.thebureauinvestigates.com/drone-war/data/afghanistan-reported-us-covert-actions-2019 (accessed September 12, 2019).
[102]Human Rights Watch telephone interview with witness in Nangarhar, April 13, 2019.
[103]UNAMA, “Preliminary Findings Indicate Airstrike Killed 12 Civilians in Maidan Wardak Province,” September 25, 2018, https://unama.unmissions.org/preliminary-findings-indicate-airstrike-killed-12-civilians-maidan-wardak-province (accessed August 26, 2019); Jessica Purkiss and Mateen Arian, “How US ‘Good Guys’ Wiped Out an Afghan Family,” Bureau of Investigative Journalism, June 3, 2019, https://www.thebureauinvestigates.com/stories/2019-06-03/us-bomb-kills-afghan-family (accessed October 5, 2019).
[104]Purkiss and Arian, “How US ‘Good Guys’ Wiped Out an Afghan Family,” Bureau of Investigative Journalism.
[105]Human Rights Watch telephone interview with Masih Ur-Rahman Mubarez, April 13, 2019.
[106]According to the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, she had been told to switch off the phone. Purkiss and Arian, “How US ‘Good Guys’ Wiped Out an Afghan Family,” Bureau of Investigative Journalism.
[107]Human Rights Watch telephone interview with Masih Ur-Rahman Mubarez, April 13, 2019.
[108]Ibid. According to the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, the US military mission in Afghanistan first denied responsibility for the airstrike, then confirmed that US forces on the ground had called for air support, and a strike had been carried out in “self-defense.” Purkiss and Arian, “How US ‘Good Guys’ Wiped Out an Afghan Family,” Bureau of Investigative Journalism.
[109]In mid-2012, the Taliban lost control of Andar district in the so-called Andar Uprising, which the Afghan government and US military seized on as a hoped-for turning point in the war. However, the Taliban’s temporary setback had much more to do with local power dynamics, and by 2017 the district was again in Taliban control. Fazal Muzhary and Kate Clark, “Uprising, ALP and Taleban in Andar: The Arc of Government Failure,” Afghanistan Analysts Network, May 22, 2018, https://www.afghanistan-analysts.org/uprising-alp-and-taleban-in-andar-the-arc-of-government-failure (accessed August 24, 2019).
[110]On the number of airstrikes, see Bureau of Investigative Journalism, “Afghanistan: Reported US Covert Actions 2019.”
[111]For an account of some of the night raids, see Fazal Muzhary, “One Land, Two Rules (7): Delivering Public Services in Insurgency-Affected Andar District in Ghazni Province,” Afghanistan Analysts Network, June 13, 2019, https://www.afghanistan-analysts.org/one-land-two-rules-7-delivering-public-services-in-insurgency-affected-andar-district-in-ghazni-province/ (accessed August 24, 2019).
[112]Unpublished report on threats to healthcare facilities in Afghanistan, 2019, on file with Human Rights Watch.
[113]Ibid.
[114]Human Rights Watch telephone interview with clinic staff member, August 25, 2019. Details corroborated in unpublished report on threats to healthcare facilities in Afghanistan.
[115]Ibid.
[116]Human Rights Watch telephone interview with two local health council members in Day Mirdad, July 12, 2019.
[117]Ibid.
[118]Ibid.
[119]Swedish Committee of Afghanistan, “SCA Strongly Condemns Attack on Health Clinic in Wardak Province,” July 14, 2019, https://swedishcommittee.org/blog/sca-strongly-condemns-attack-health-clinic-wardak-province-0 (accessed August 24, 2019).
[120]Shehreena Qazi, “Swedish-Run Clinics Stay Shut in Afghanistan for Fifth Day,”Al Jazeera, July 18, 2019, https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2019/07/swedish-run-clinics-stay-shut-afghanistan-day-190717080408361.html (accessed August 24, 2019).
[121]Human Rights Watch, “Afghanistan: Investigate Army Killings of Hospital Patients,” February 19, 2016, https://www.hrw.org/news/2016/02/19/afghanistan-investigate-army-killings-hospital-patients.
[122]Human Rights Watch telephone interview with resident of Kajaki, August 30, 2019.
[123]Ibid.; unpublished report on threats to healthcare facilities in Afghanistan, 2019, on file with Human Rights Watch.
[124]Ibid.
[125]See generally, International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC),Customary International Humanitarian Law(Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2005).
[126]Article 3 common to the First, Second, Third, and Fourth Geneva Conventions (Common Article 3). Afghanistan became a party to the Geneva Conventions in 1956; the US became a party to the Geneva Conventions in 1955.
[127]Protocol Additional to the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949, and Relating to the Protection of Victims of Non-International Armed Conflicts (Protocol II), 1125 U.N.T.S. 609, entered into force December 7, 1978. Article 1 states the protocol applies to “dissident armed forces or other organized armed groups which, under responsible command, exercise such control over a part of its territory as to enable them to carry out sustained and concerted military operations and to implement this Protocol.”
[128]See generally the discussion of the applicability of international humanitarian law to non-state armed groups in ICRC,Customary International Humanitarian Law, p. 497-498.
[129]ICRC,Customary International Humanitarian Law,rules 1-10,citing, for example, Protocol Additional to the Geneva Conventions of 12 August 1949, and Relating to the Protection of Victims of International Armed Conflicts (Protocol I), adopted June 8, 1977, 1125 U.N.T.S. 3, entered into force December 7, 1978.
[130]ICRC,Customary International Humanitarian Law,rules 15-21.
[131]Common Article 3(1).
[132]International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), G.A. res. 2200A (XXI), 21 U.N. GAOR Supp. (No. 16) at 52, U.N. Doc. A/6316 (1966), 999 U.N.T.S. 171, entered into force Mar. 23, 1976; Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, G.A. res. 39/46, annex, 39 U.N. GAOR Supp. (No. 51) at 197, U.N. Doc. A/39/51 (1984), entered into force June 26, 1987.
[133]International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance, adopted December 20, 2006, G.A. Res. 177 (LXI), U.N. Doc. A/RES/61/177 (2006), entered into force December 23, 2010, art. 2; see also ICRC,Customary International Humanitarian Law,rule 98.
[134]ICCPR, arts. 9 and 14.
[135]ICRC,Customary International Humanitarian Law,rules 7-10, citing Protocol I, art. 48, 52(2).
[136]Ibid.,rule 1.
[137]Ibid.,rule 6.
[138]See generally, ICRC, “Interpretive Guidance on the Notion of Direct Participation in Hostilities under International Humanitarian Law,” May 2009.
[139]ICRC,Customary International Humanitarian Law,rules 7-10.
[140]Protocol I, art. 52(3).
[141]ICRC,Customary International Humanitarian Law,rules 1 and 7.
[142]Ibid.,rules 11-13, citing Protocol I, art. 51(4).
[143]Ibid., rule 14, citing Protocol I, art. 51(5).
[144]Ibid., rule 15, citing Protocol I, art. 57.
[145]Ibid., rule 20, citing Protocol I, art. 57(2).
[146]Ibid., rule 22, citing Protocol I, art. 58.
[147]Ibid., rule 24, citing Protocol I, art. 58.
[148]Ibid., rule 97, citing Third Geneva Convention, art. 23; Fourth Geneva Convention, art. 28; and Protocol I, art. 51.
[149]See “ICRC Q&A on the Issue of Explosive Weapons in Populated Areas,”International Review of the Red Cross, vol. 98, no. 901 (2016), p. 97-105.
[150]See “Explosive Weapons in Cities: Civilian Devastation and Suffering Must Stop,” UN Secretary-General and ICRC President joint statement, September 18, 2019.
[151]ICRC,Customary International Humanitarian Law,rule 28, citing Protocol II, art. 11(1).
[152]Ibid.
[153]Ibid., rule 26, citing Protocol II, arts. 9 and 10.
[154]See Alexander Breitegger, “The Legal Framework Applicable to Insecurity and Violence Affecting the Delivery of Health Care in Armed Conflicts and Other Emergencies,”International Review of the Red Cross, vol. 95, no. 889 (2013), p. 117-118.
[155]ICRC,Customary International Humanitarian Law, rule 156.
[156]Ibid., rule 151.
[157]Ibid., rule 153.
[158]Ibid., rule 158.
[159]Ibid., rule 150.
Disband All Irregular Paramilitary Forces, Cooperate With Independent Investigations
US, Afghan Forces Need to Visit Sites, Obtain Witness Accounts
4 Civilians Executed in Second Attack on Facility in Wardak Province
Human Rights Watch defends the rights of people in close to 100 countries worldwide, spotlighting abuses and bringing perpetrators to justice
Human Rights Watchis a 501(C)(3) nonprofit registered in the US under EIN: 13-2875808

Title: ISIS in Afghanistan is still able to field thousands of fighters despite hellacious fight to destroy it
In April 2017, U.S. forces dropped one of the largest non-nuclear bombs on an ISIS cave complex in Nangarhar province, Afghanistan. Dubbed the ‘mother of all bombs’ it killed dozens of fighters.
Former U.S. Afghanistan commander Gen. John Nicholson’s decision to unleash such an immense display of American air power against a militant group that at the time was estimated to number less than a 1,000 fighters was highly criticized.
But, despite years of American bombardment and hundreds of counterterrorism operations launched against the militant group largely cornered in remote pockets of Kunar and Nangarhar provinces, ISIS fighters in Afghanistan number in the thousands while maintaining the ability to launch deadly high profile attacks across the country.
A recentUN reportsaid ISIS terrorists in Afghanistan numbered between 2,500 and 4,000 fighters. A 2019DoD reporton Afghanistan estimates the size of the terrorist group to be less than 2,000 fighters.
ISIS’ staying power marches on in the mountainous region of eastern Afghanistan despite major territorial losses in 2018, and immense pressure from sustained operations by Afghan and U.S. forces.
Its power and resurgence has ebbed and flowed with its ability to easily move weapons and supplies through Pakistan. On the recruitment front, its foreign fighters predominately hail from Central and South Asia, and the group often takes on disaffected Taliban fighters disillusioned by various infighting and political disagreements.
A UN report estimated that less than 10 percent of ISIS’ fighters in Afghanistan have experience fighting for the core ISIS group in Iraq and Syria.
Officials with Resolute Support told Military Times that its assessment of the capabilities and trajectory of the terror group is “concerning.”
“Da’esh is active in the east and southeast and is trying to expand its territory and recruiting,” Resolute Support told Military Times in an emailed statement.
The UN report detailed that Afghan security forces have “intensified” their operations against the ISIS militants, and since April 2018, Afghan forces have launched 300 land and air operations killing nearly 1,200 fighters.
A special operations task force was awarded 34 valor awards to include five Silver Stars and nine Bronze Stars during a six month deployment combating Taliban, Afghan ISIS militants, Haqqani network and Al-Qaida fighters, according to Army Times.
An official with Resolute Support said no U.S. troops have died as a result of combat operations in Nangarhar province in 2019. But, U.S. and Afghan special operations forces have been slugging it out for several years against ISIS fighters in Nangarhar — the terror group’s center of gravity.
ISIS fighters in Afghanistan have also locked horns with Taliban fighters over control of territory in the war-torn region. Those battles have been costly for the terror group.
In one stinging defeat, ISIS fighters in July 2018, were routed by Taliban fighters in the northern Afghan province of Jowzjan. Skirmishes with Taliban forces coupled with attacks by Afghan special forces and airstrikes forced an ISIS commander to surrender nearly 250 of his fighters to the Afghan government, the UN report detailed.
The surrender of hundreds of ISIS fighters in Jowzjan, and the collapse of ISIS’ foothold in northern Afghanistan was widely reported in media circles.
But, those setbacks have not deterred ISIS from seeking to expand presence out of the remote corners of eastern Afghanistan, or from launching deadly attacks in Kabul.
ISIS “remained resilient, despite Afghan and international military forces maintaining a high tempo of operations against its strongholds in Nangarhar and Kunar provinces,” anotherUN reportreads.
“Despite significant territorial losses in late 2018, ISIL-KP [Islamic State Khorasan Province] has launched several offensives against Taliban-held areas in both provinces since January 2019, with some battlefield gains reported in Kunar Province,” the UN report detailed.
A DoD report said the ISIS offshoot in Afghanistan plays an “active role” in managing other ISIS affiliates in India and Bangladesh, but “progress in enabling or inspiring” attacks outside of Afghanistan or Pakistan has been “limited.”
ISIS in Afghanistan still remains connected to the core ISIS fighters in Iraq and Syria, but despite the demise of the physical caliphate in that region ISIS in Afghanistan continues to persevere.
The group has become more self-reliant in funding its operations and paying its fighters through revenues collected through illegal mining, logging, extortion, and taxing local households, according to the UN report.
“Payments to ISIL rank-and-file membership appear to have decreased significantly,” the UN report reads.
“ISIS-K maintained the ability to defend itself and conduct attacks, and made territorial gains in its strongholds in eastern Afghanistan despite pressure from the Coalition, ANDSF, and the Taliban,” a 2019 DoD report on Afghanistan reads.
“We are countering the threat through enabling our Afghan security partners to fight our common enemy; through partnered operations; and with unilateral strikes and operations when appropriate,” Resolute Support told Military Times.
Shawn Snow is the senior reporter for Marine Corps Times and a Marine Corps veteran.
Military Times  © 2024

Title: ISIS in Afghanistan is still able to field thousands of fighters despite hellacious fight to destroy it
In April 2017, U.S. forces dropped one of the largest non-nuclear bombs on an ISIS cave complex in Nangarhar province, Afghanistan. Dubbed the ‘mother of all bombs’ it killed dozens of fighters.
Former U.S. Afghanistan commander Gen. John Nicholson’s decision to unleash such an immense display of American air power against a militant group that at the time was estimated to number less than a 1,000 fighters was highly criticized.
But, despite years of American bombardment and hundreds of counterterrorism operations launched against the militant group largely cornered in remote pockets of Kunar and Nangarhar provinces, ISIS fighters in Afghanistan number in the thousands while maintaining the ability to launch deadly high profile attacks across the country.
A recentUN reportsaid ISIS terrorists in Afghanistan numbered between 2,500 and 4,000 fighters. A 2019DoD reporton Afghanistan estimates the size of the terrorist group to be less than 2,000 fighters.
ISIS’ staying power marches on in the mountainous region of eastern Afghanistan despite major territorial losses in 2018, and immense pressure from sustained operations by Afghan and U.S. forces.
Its power and resurgence has ebbed and flowed with its ability to easily move weapons and supplies through Pakistan. On the recruitment front, its foreign fighters predominately hail from Central and South Asia, and the group often takes on disaffected Taliban fighters disillusioned by various infighting and political disagreements.
A UN report estimated that less than 10 percent of ISIS’ fighters in Afghanistan have experience fighting for the core ISIS group in Iraq and Syria.
Officials with Resolute Support told Military Times that its assessment of the capabilities and trajectory of the terror group is “concerning.”
“Da’esh is active in the east and southeast and is trying to expand its territory and recruiting,” Resolute Support told Military Times in an emailed statement.
The UN report detailed that Afghan security forces have “intensified” their operations against the ISIS militants, and since April 2018, Afghan forces have launched 300 land and air operations killing nearly 1,200 fighters.
A special operations task force was awarded 34 valor awards to include five Silver Stars and nine Bronze Stars during a six month deployment combating Taliban, Afghan ISIS militants, Haqqani network and Al-Qaida fighters, according to Army Times.
An official with Resolute Support said no U.S. troops have died as a result of combat operations in Nangarhar province in 2019. But, U.S. and Afghan special operations forces have been slugging it out for several years against ISIS fighters in Nangarhar — the terror group’s center of gravity.
ISIS fighters in Afghanistan have also locked horns with Taliban fighters over control of territory in the war-torn region. Those battles have been costly for the terror group.
In one stinging defeat, ISIS fighters in July 2018, were routed by Taliban fighters in the northern Afghan province of Jowzjan. Skirmishes with Taliban forces coupled with attacks by Afghan special forces and airstrikes forced an ISIS commander to surrender nearly 250 of his fighters to the Afghan government, the UN report detailed.
The surrender of hundreds of ISIS fighters in Jowzjan, and the collapse of ISIS’ foothold in northern Afghanistan was widely reported in media circles.
But, those setbacks have not deterred ISIS from seeking to expand presence out of the remote corners of eastern Afghanistan, or from launching deadly attacks in Kabul.
ISIS “remained resilient, despite Afghan and international military forces maintaining a high tempo of operations against its strongholds in Nangarhar and Kunar provinces,” anotherUN reportreads.
“Despite significant territorial losses in late 2018, ISIL-KP [Islamic State Khorasan Province] has launched several offensives against Taliban-held areas in both provinces since January 2019, with some battlefield gains reported in Kunar Province,” the UN report detailed.
A DoD report said the ISIS offshoot in Afghanistan plays an “active role” in managing other ISIS affiliates in India and Bangladesh, but “progress in enabling or inspiring” attacks outside of Afghanistan or Pakistan has been “limited.”
ISIS in Afghanistan still remains connected to the core ISIS fighters in Iraq and Syria, but despite the demise of the physical caliphate in that region ISIS in Afghanistan continues to persevere.
The group has become more self-reliant in funding its operations and paying its fighters through revenues collected through illegal mining, logging, extortion, and taxing local households, according to the UN report.
“Payments to ISIL rank-and-file membership appear to have decreased significantly,” the UN report reads.
“ISIS-K maintained the ability to defend itself and conduct attacks, and made territorial gains in its strongholds in eastern Afghanistan despite pressure from the Coalition, ANDSF, and the Taliban,” a 2019 DoD report on Afghanistan reads.
“We are countering the threat through enabling our Afghan security partners to fight our common enemy; through partnered operations; and with unilateral strikes and operations when appropriate,” Resolute Support told Military Times.
Shawn Snow is the senior reporter for Marine Corps Times and a Marine Corps veteran.
Marine Corps Times  © 2024

Title: UN says 14,000 'grave violations' against Afghan kids in 4 years | The National
Asia
October 04, 2019

Title: ISIS in Afghanistan is still able to field thousands of fighters despite hellacious fight to destroy it
In April 2017, U.S. forces dropped one of the largest non-nuclear bombs on an ISIS cave complex in Nangarhar province, Afghanistan. Dubbed the ‘mother of all bombs’ it killed dozens of fighters.
Former U.S. Afghanistan commander Gen. John Nicholson’s decision to unleash such an immense display of American air power against a militant group that at the time was estimated to number less than a 1,000 fighters was highly criticized.
But, despite years of American bombardment and hundreds of counterterrorism operations launched against the militant group largely cornered in remote pockets of Kunar and Nangarhar provinces, ISIS fighters in Afghanistan number in the thousands while maintaining the ability to launch deadly high profile attacks across the country.
A recentUN reportsaid ISIS terrorists in Afghanistan numbered between 2,500 and 4,000 fighters. A 2019DoD reporton Afghanistan estimates the size of the terrorist group to be less than 2,000 fighters.
ISIS’ staying power marches on in the mountainous region of eastern Afghanistan despite major territorial losses in 2018, and immense pressure from sustained operations by Afghan and U.S. forces.
Its power and resurgence has ebbed and flowed with its ability to easily move weapons and supplies through Pakistan. On the recruitment front, its foreign fighters predominately hail from Central and South Asia, and the group often takes on disaffected Taliban fighters disillusioned by various infighting and political disagreements.
A UN report estimated that less than 10 percent of ISIS’ fighters in Afghanistan have experience fighting for the core ISIS group in Iraq and Syria.
Officials with Resolute Support told Military Times that its assessment of the capabilities and trajectory of the terror group is “concerning.”
“Da’esh is active in the east and southeast and is trying to expand its territory and recruiting,” Resolute Support told Military Times in an emailed statement.
The UN report detailed that Afghan security forces have “intensified” their operations against the ISIS militants, and since April 2018, Afghan forces have launched 300 land and air operations killing nearly 1,200 fighters.
A special operations task force was awarded 34 valor awards to include five Silver Stars and nine Bronze Stars during a six month deployment combating Taliban, Afghan ISIS militants, Haqqani network and Al-Qaida fighters, according to Army Times.
An official with Resolute Support said no U.S. troops have died as a result of combat operations in Nangarhar province in 2019. But, U.S. and Afghan special operations forces have been slugging it out for several years against ISIS fighters in Nangarhar — the terror group’s center of gravity.
ISIS fighters in Afghanistan have also locked horns with Taliban fighters over control of territory in the war-torn region. Those battles have been costly for the terror group.
In one stinging defeat, ISIS fighters in July 2018, were routed by Taliban fighters in the northern Afghan province of Jowzjan. Skirmishes with Taliban forces coupled with attacks by Afghan special forces and airstrikes forced an ISIS commander to surrender nearly 250 of his fighters to the Afghan government, the UN report detailed.
The surrender of hundreds of ISIS fighters in Jowzjan, and the collapse of ISIS’ foothold in northern Afghanistan was widely reported in media circles.
But, those setbacks have not deterred ISIS from seeking to expand presence out of the remote corners of eastern Afghanistan, or from launching deadly attacks in Kabul.
ISIS “remained resilient, despite Afghan and international military forces maintaining a high tempo of operations against its strongholds in Nangarhar and Kunar provinces,” anotherUN reportreads.
“Despite significant territorial losses in late 2018, ISIL-KP [Islamic State Khorasan Province] has launched several offensives against Taliban-held areas in both provinces since January 2019, with some battlefield gains reported in Kunar Province,” the UN report detailed.
A DoD report said the ISIS offshoot in Afghanistan plays an “active role” in managing other ISIS affiliates in India and Bangladesh, but “progress in enabling or inspiring” attacks outside of Afghanistan or Pakistan has been “limited.”
ISIS in Afghanistan still remains connected to the core ISIS fighters in Iraq and Syria, but despite the demise of the physical caliphate in that region ISIS in Afghanistan continues to persevere.
The group has become more self-reliant in funding its operations and paying its fighters through revenues collected through illegal mining, logging, extortion, and taxing local households, according to the UN report.
“Payments to ISIL rank-and-file membership appear to have decreased significantly,” the UN report reads.
“ISIS-K maintained the ability to defend itself and conduct attacks, and made territorial gains in its strongholds in eastern Afghanistan despite pressure from the Coalition, ANDSF, and the Taliban,” a 2019 DoD report on Afghanistan reads.
“We are countering the threat through enabling our Afghan security partners to fight our common enemy; through partnered operations; and with unilateral strikes and operations when appropriate,” Resolute Support told Military Times.
Shawn Snow is the senior reporter for Marine Corps Times and a Marine Corps veteran.
Air Force Times  © 2024

Title: America, ISIS, and the Taliban fight for control 
As America’s war in Afghanistan grinds through its eighteenth year, the United States is seeking an exit strategy via peace negotiations with the Taliban as both players engage in a secondary conflict with a newer player on the scene: ISIS.
“All they did was change their t-shirts,” a former Army intelligence analyst said to Connecting Vets of ISIS in Afghanistan, who consist of Taliban elements who rebranded themselves starting in 2014.  A2015 Frontline documentaryfeatures in interview with a Afghan ISIS member named Abu Rasheed who said that he used to be Taliban but switched to ISIS in 2014.
“Were you Taliban before?”
“Yes, we were fighting holy wars Taliban.  Our holy war was just because there was no Caliphate then,” Rasheed responds to the journalist conducting the interview.  “But god says that when there is a Caliphate you must join the Caliphate,” he continued, referencing the so-called Islamic State in Iraq and Syria.
As the U.S. moves to create a peaceful solution with the Taliban, the transformed ISIS members are complicating the equation.
The rebranding of some Taliban members as ISIS was a means to attract global attention, specifically from the United States. This bares similarity to ISIS in the Philippines who are really little more than criminals, kidnappers, and extortionists who use ISIS as a banner to fight under in hopes of giving them the legitimacy of claiming to be fighting for a global pan-Islamist movement no matter how tenuous those connections may be.
While ISIS sees themselves engaged in a political project which encompasses the entire world, the Taliban view themselves as local actors concerned with Afghanistan itself.
When it comes to the expanding influence of ISIS in Afghanistan, the Taliban has had their own ideas about who should actually be in charge.
In 2018, the Taliban squared off with ISIS in the province of Jowzjan.  The battle reached a climax when the Taliban assaulted a ISIS stronghold in Darzab, over running their positions which were manned by approximately 600-700 fighters.
Throughout 2019, clashes have escalated between the two groups to the south in Kunar.  While the Taliban had a reputation for enforcing a brutal interpretation of Islamic law, ISIS has become known for being even more barbaric in their torturing and murdering of civilians on the battlefield.  The locals, to include the Taliban itself, see ISIS as a foreign entity trying to assert itself in their territory and reject it as such.  ISIS’ lack of legitimacy in Afghanistan is a view that the Afghan Army and the Taliban appear to be aligned on.
These ongoing security dynamics also figure into the ongoing peace negotiations between the Taliban and the United States government, the later of which is seeking an exit strategy from a country that they have been occupying for close to two decades.
“That is a terrorist group [ISIS] that doesn’t recognize Afghanistan as a nation state,” acting Assistant Secretary of State Alice Wells testified before Congress. “This is a group that focuses on caliphate and borderless territory under the organization’s control. That’s a deep threat to all the people of Afghanistan, including the Taliban.”
Wells went on to say that peace negotiations need to include creating a unified Afghanistan that can stand up to terrorist groups like ISIS.



Title: ISIS in Afghanistan is still able to field thousands of fighters despite hellacious fight to destroy it
In April 2017, U.S. forces dropped one of the largest non-nuclear bombs on an ISIS cave complex in Nangarhar province, Afghanistan. Dubbed the ‘mother of all bombs’ it killed dozens of fighters.
Former U.S. Afghanistan commander Gen. John Nicholson’s decision to unleash such an immense display of American air power against a militant group that at the time was estimated to number less than a 1,000 fighters was highly criticized.
But, despite years of American bombardment and hundreds of counterterrorism operations launched against the militant group largely cornered in remote pockets of Kunar and Nangarhar provinces, ISIS fighters in Afghanistan number in the thousands while maintaining the ability to launch deadly high profile attacks across the country.
A recentUN reportsaid ISIS terrorists in Afghanistan numbered between 2,500 and 4,000 fighters. A 2019DoD reporton Afghanistan estimates the size of the terrorist group to be less than 2,000 fighters.
ISIS’ staying power marches on in the mountainous region of eastern Afghanistan despite major territorial losses in 2018, and immense pressure from sustained operations by Afghan and U.S. forces.
Its power and resurgence has ebbed and flowed with its ability to easily move weapons and supplies through Pakistan. On the recruitment front, its foreign fighters predominately hail from Central and South Asia, and the group often takes on disaffected Taliban fighters disillusioned by various infighting and political disagreements.
A UN report estimated that less than 10 percent of ISIS’ fighters in Afghanistan have experience fighting for the core ISIS group in Iraq and Syria.
Officials with Resolute Support told Military Times that its assessment of the capabilities and trajectory of the terror group is “concerning.”
“Da’esh is active in the east and southeast and is trying to expand its territory and recruiting,” Resolute Support told Military Times in an emailed statement.
The UN report detailed that Afghan security forces have “intensified” their operations against the ISIS militants, and since April 2018, Afghan forces have launched 300 land and air operations killing nearly 1,200 fighters.
A special operations task force was awarded 34 valor awards to include five Silver Stars and nine Bronze Stars during a six month deployment combating Taliban, Afghan ISIS militants, Haqqani network and Al-Qaida fighters, according to Army Times.
An official with Resolute Support said no U.S. troops have died as a result of combat operations in Nangarhar province in 2019. But, U.S. and Afghan special operations forces have been slugging it out for several years against ISIS fighters in Nangarhar — the terror group’s center of gravity.
ISIS fighters in Afghanistan have also locked horns with Taliban fighters over control of territory in the war-torn region. Those battles have been costly for the terror group.
In one stinging defeat, ISIS fighters in July 2018, were routed by Taliban fighters in the northern Afghan province of Jowzjan. Skirmishes with Taliban forces coupled with attacks by Afghan special forces and airstrikes forced an ISIS commander to surrender nearly 250 of his fighters to the Afghan government, the UN report detailed.
The surrender of hundreds of ISIS fighters in Jowzjan, and the collapse of ISIS’ foothold in northern Afghanistan was widely reported in media circles.
But, those setbacks have not deterred ISIS from seeking to expand presence out of the remote corners of eastern Afghanistan, or from launching deadly attacks in Kabul.
ISIS “remained resilient, despite Afghan and international military forces maintaining a high tempo of operations against its strongholds in Nangarhar and Kunar provinces,” anotherUN reportreads.
“Despite significant territorial losses in late 2018, ISIL-KP [Islamic State Khorasan Province] has launched several offensives against Taliban-held areas in both provinces since January 2019, with some battlefield gains reported in Kunar Province,” the UN report detailed.
A DoD report said the ISIS offshoot in Afghanistan plays an “active role” in managing other ISIS affiliates in India and Bangladesh, but “progress in enabling or inspiring” attacks outside of Afghanistan or Pakistan has been “limited.”
ISIS in Afghanistan still remains connected to the core ISIS fighters in Iraq and Syria, but despite the demise of the physical caliphate in that region ISIS in Afghanistan continues to persevere.
The group has become more self-reliant in funding its operations and paying its fighters through revenues collected through illegal mining, logging, extortion, and taxing local households, according to the UN report.
“Payments to ISIL rank-and-file membership appear to have decreased significantly,” the UN report reads.
“ISIS-K maintained the ability to defend itself and conduct attacks, and made territorial gains in its strongholds in eastern Afghanistan despite pressure from the Coalition, ANDSF, and the Taliban,” a 2019 DoD report on Afghanistan reads.
“We are countering the threat through enabling our Afghan security partners to fight our common enemy; through partnered operations; and with unilateral strikes and operations when appropriate,” Resolute Support told Military Times.
Shawn Snow is the senior reporter for Marine Corps Times and a Marine Corps veteran.
Army Times  © 2024

Title: Afghanistan: a Shakespearean tragedy - Daily Times
Daily Times
Your right to knowTuesday, September 24, 2024
Commentary / Insight

Siffat Ali
October 5, 2019
On September 8, US President Trump withdrew from peace talks with the Taliban after the latter claimed responsibility of a suicide blast in Kabul on September 5 that left at least 12 persons, including a US soldier, dead. Hopes for peace in Afghanistan were again hit by uncertainty, despite the consistent nine rounds of talks between the US and Taliban at Doha from October 2018 till September 2019.
Both parties seemed nearer to agree in principles on terms of the agreement, which would have been followed by an intra-Afghan peace process. Trump Administration in the White House appeared to be more serious than ever, while the Taliban were less rigid than anticipated. Peace in Afghanistan seemed to be just around the corner though several stakeholders, including Afghan women, human rights organisations and Afghan people, had severe reservations.
Meanwhile, President Trump has sacked the National Security Advisor John R Bolton, which indicates that the US is no more interested in resuming the peace process soon. It can be argued that both the Taliban and President Trump are sliding into a cold state; a happening that has taken the Taliban by surprise.
In the backdrop of rising tension between the US forces and Taliban militants, the Afghan Presidential Elections (even though marked with irregularities and low turnout) took place on September 28, 2019, after having been postponed twice. There is no denying the fact that the elections sent a strong message to anti-democratic forces in Afghanistan, but security risks and threats on the ground added to the miseries of the people of Afghanistan who are at the receiving end of every security failure.
Reportedly, a total of 18 candidates from diverse ethnic backgrounds competed for the slot of the president. However, the final face-off is between Ashraf Ghani and Abdullah Abdullah, with both camps claiming the victory before official results are announced. The elections in Afghanistan have been an uphill task in the present environment. This time, forming the government will be even more challenging for the winning side. Whosoever makes the government in Afghanistan will have to come up against stark security and economic challenges. For instance, the government of Ashraf Ghani is widely criticised for its failure in security and economic management. Now that the process of peace talks has broken down without any conclusion, dealing with the Taliban will be a herculean task. The Taliban will continue to dismantle the writ of the government in Kabul until they are offered a meaningful role and acceptance in the mainstream. Hence, it will be up to the next dispensation in Kabul to find out a way to bring the intra-Afghan peace process back on track.
The puritan Islam of the Taliban is not an option to be accepted by the women and moderate people of Afghanistan
Likewise, the economy of Afghanistan will also be a challenge for the upcoming government. The current GDP growth rate of Afghanistan is at 2.6 per cent and its share in the international market is drastically low due to meagre exports and relatively high imports. All this problem is due to the fragile security environment. The road to a stable economy goes through a stable security environment. For this to happen, it will be mandatory for the new regime in Afghanistan to bring peace. And again, the stakeholders in peace are the Afghan Taliban. Therefore, the initiation of an intra-Afghan peace between the Taliban and government will be necessary. Hence, the success or failure of the next government in Kabul will be determined on how it deals with the Taliban.
Other stakeholders, particularly women of Afghanistan, are suspicious of their prospects, regardless of who wins the elections. The puritan Islam of the Taliban is not an option to be accepted by the women and moderate people of Afghanistan as the faltering writ of the incumbent government is also not much to alleviate their sufferings. In the end, they are clamouring for support from international actors including human rights organisations, and especially the US.
Exploring further the pandora’s box of conflict in Afghanistan and players on the ground, it comes to light that almost 51 per cent of Afghanistan territory is controlled by the government, nearly 25 per cent by the Taliban while the rest is an open battleground. Beside the scuffle between the Taliban and government in Kabul, the notorious ISIS (Islamic State of Iraq and Syria) has found feet in the fragile security environment of Afghanistan and intends to establish its lost stronghold (of Middle East) on the unfortunate land of Afghanistan. This complicated tug-of-war does not stop here. The worst thing about this is that whenever one side claims a win over the other, the civilian population of Afghanistan suffers. Meanwhile, in the whole canvas of Afghanistan, the ISIS is seen by both government and Taliban as an alien factor. This can turn out to be a blessing in disguise for the government and Afghan Taliban because unlike them, the ISIS is a vile interpretation of radical and fundamental extremism. If the new government can bring the Taliban into the fold, it will be rather easy to eliminate the notorious militancy-magnet ISIS.
Summing up the debate, elections in Afghanistan are going to be a turning point in its history. There will be a room of opportunities as well as a plethora of challenges for the winner. If an intra-Afghan peace is achieved, the debate of US withdrawal will cease to exist. However, if China, Russia or any of the other actors influence the balance of US-Taliban talks under the umbrella of other catalysts such as OBOR, Kashmir or Middle East crises, the acquisition of a truce will become a much-convoluted matter than a few give and takes. History tells us that an indigenous peace effort is always worth more than an imported one. Hence, now the fate of Afghanistan rests in the hands of the next regime.
The writer is a research associate at the Centre for Pakistan andGulf Studies




More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category

HomeLead StoriesLatest NewsEditor’s Picks
CultureLife & StyleFeaturedVideos
EditorialsOP-EDSCommentaryAdvertise
CartoonsLettersBlogsPrivacy Policy
ContactCompany’s FinancialsInvestor InformationTerms & Conditions
FacebookTwitterInstagramYoutube
Copyright © 2024 Daily TimesWebsite Developed ByDaily Times Developers

Title: ISIS in Afghanistan is Still Able to Field Thousands of Fighters Despite Hellacious Fight to Destroy It | Small Wars Journal
ISIS in Afghanistan is Still Able to Field Thousands of Fighters Despite Hellacious Fight to Destroy Itby Shawn Snow –Military Times
In April 2017, U.S. forces dropped one of the largest non-nuclear bombs on an ISIS cave complex in Nangarhar province, Afghanistan. Dubbed the ‘mother of all bombs’ it killed dozens of fighters.
Former U.S. Afghanistan commander Gen. John Nicholson’s decision to unleash such an immense display of American air power against a militant group that at the time was estimated to number less than a 1,000 fighters was highly criticized.
But, despite years of American bombardment and hundreds of counterterrorism operations launched against the militant group largely cornered in remote pockets of Kunar and Nangarhar provinces, ISIS fighters in Afghanistan number in the thousands while maintaining the ability to launch deadly high profile attacks across the country.
A recentUN reportsaid ISIS terrorists in Afghanistan numbered between 2,500 and 4,000 fighters. A 2019DoD reporton Afghanistan estimates the size of the terrorist group to be less than 2,000 fighters…
Read on.
©2005-2020
Small Wars Journal is published bySmall Wars Foundation- a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation.Original content is published under aCreative Commons Licenseper ourTerms of Use.
© Copyright 2024| Site by3C Web Services

Title: Jihad and Terrorism Threat Monitor (JTTM) Weekend Summary: Week of September 28-October 5, 2019 | MEMRI
The following are some of this week's reports from the MEMRI Jihad and Terrorism Threat Monitor (JTTM) Project, which translates and analyzes content from sources monitored around the clock, among them the most important jihadi websites and blogs. (To view these reports in full, you must be a paying member of the JTTM; for membership information, send an email tojttmsubs@memri.orgwith "Membership" in the subject line.)
Note to media and government: For a full copy of these reports, send an email with the title of the report in the subject line tomedia@memri.org. Please include your name, title, and organization in your email.

EXCLUSIVE: Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan: 'Whether Or Not The World Is With The Kashmiris, The Pakistanis Are With The Kashmiris; This Is A Jihad'

The Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (the Taliban organization) claimed to have foiled the September 28, 2019, presidential vote in the country, arguing that "pointless expenditures [on elections], encouragement and time-wasting by foreign invaders in this procedure is not in the interest of any side."

EXCLUSIVE: Pro-Hay'at Tahrir Al-Sham (HTS) Albanian Jihadi Group Releases Video Featuring Saudi Cleric Urging Muslims To Join Mujahideen In Syria

On September 18, 2019, the official Telegram channel of a pro-Hay'at Tahrir Al-Sham (HTS) jihadi group consisting of Albanian fighters released a video condemning Russia for its involvement in the war in Syria and featuring Saudi jihadi cleric Muslih Al-Alayyani urging Muslims to join the mujahideen in Syria.

EXCLUSIVE: ISIS Weekly Magazine Hails 'Revenge' Against Nigerian Army, Urges Further Attacks Against Christians And African Armies Throughout Region

In the editorial of its September 26, 2019 issue, the Islamic State (ISIS) weekly magazineAl-Naba'hailed the recent execution of Nigerian soldiers by ISIS West Africa, terming it "revenge" for the "massacre" of Muslims carried out by Christians in Nigeria's Plateau State

EXCLUSIVE: Hamas Military Wing 'Izz Al-‎Din Al-Qassam Brigades Promotes Official Presence On Facebook,‎Twitter, Telegram, WhatsApp After Removal Of Previous Accounts

On September 29, 2019, Gaza-based Hamas military wing 'Izz Al-Din Al-Qassam Brigades shared on its official Telegram channel a list of links to the group's "official" accounts on social media platforms, including Facebook, Twitter, Telegram, and WhatsApp.

ISIS Claims Attack On Mozambican Military Outpost In Cabo Delgado Province, Burning Of Christians' Houses In Environs

On September 26, 2019, the Islamic State's (ISIS) Central Africa Province claimed an attack on a Mozambican military outpost on September 24, killing and wounding several soldiers and burning some houses of Christians in Mbau city, which is in the Mocimboa da Praia district in Mozambique's northern province of Cabo Delgado, near the border with Tanzania.

ISIS Claims Attack On Ruling Party Office In Bangladesh Weeks After Threatening To Target Government Buildings

On September 30, 2019, the Islamic State (ISIS) released a statement claiming responsibility for an attack on the office of Bangladesh's ruling party, Awami League, in the city of Khulna, Bangladesh.

ISIS Claims 36 IED Attacks On Polling Stations In Afghanistan

On September 29, 2019 the Islamic State (ISIS) via it's news outlet 'Amaq Agency claimed responsibility for 36 IED attacks targeting polling stations across the Nangarhar province of Afghanistan.

ISIS Supporters On Telegram Promote New Tech Group Aiming To Educate Muslims On Online Security, Privacy

On September 26, 2019, Islamic State (ISIS) supporters on Telegram shared a post promoting a new tech group which is dedicated to educating Muslims on issues of communication security, information technology, and online safety and privacy.

Pro-ISIS Media Outlets On Telegram Shares Posters Threatening Retaliation Against Western Countries

On September 24 and 25, 2019, pro-Islamic State (ISIS) media outlets released two posters threatening to retaliate against Western countries over what they "did to the Muslims' land."

French Jihadi Media Operation Announces Imminent Return To Preaching

On September 26, 2019, a French jihadi media outlet released a message and two short video clips on its Telegram channel, announcing its imminent return to its preaching activity following a year-long hiatus.

Al-Qaeda-Affiliated Somali Group Al-Shabab Claims Attack On Baledogle U.S. Military Base Killed 121 American Soldiers, 'More Than A Dozen' Israeli Forces, Says EU Convoy Attack In Mogadishu Killed Two Senior Commanders

On September 30, 2019, Shahada News Agency, the official news agency of the Somalia-based Harakat Al-Shabab Al-Mujahideen (HSM), reported on Telegram that Al-Shabab fighters carried out two separate attacks using two explosive-laden vehicles on the U.S. military training base at Baledogle airbase and an EU convoy in the capital Mogadishu.

Ansar Al-Islam In Syria Publishes Images Of Special Forces Training In Idlib

On October 2, 2019, on its official Telegram channel, the Syria-based Kurdish Salafi-jihadi organization Ansar-Al-Islam, which has ties to Al-Qaeda, published some 20 images documenting a training course for the organization's special forces in the Idlib area.

Syria-Based Uyghur Jihadi Group Katibat Al-Ghuraba Releases Pictures Of Fighters On Front Line In Kibanah, North Latakia

On September 19, 2019, a jihadi media foundation connected to a Uyghur jihadi group operating in Syria posted pictures showing its fighters on ribat (i.e. guarding in the front line), in Al-Kibanah in the north of Syria's Latakia province.

Turkestan Islamic Party (TIP) Eulogizes Uyghur Fighter Killed In Syria's Aleppo Battle In 'Lovers Of Paradise' Video Series

On September 24, 2019, the official Telegram channel of Sawt Al-Islam, the media center of the Turkestan Islamic Party (TIP), a Uyghur jihadi group active in Syria, released Part 31 of its "Lovers Of Paradise" video series.

Afghan Taliban Outline Three Conditions For World Health Organization (WHO) To Resume Humanitarian Work In Afghanistan
In a statement released on September 25, 2019, the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (the Taliban organization), which had previously banned the World Health Organization (WHO) from operating in the country, has permitted it to undertake its humanitarian relief work in Taliban-controlled areas in Afghanistan.

Afghan Taliban Claim To Have Foiled Afghan Presidential Vote, Say Taliban Fighters Carried Out 531 Attacks 'Against Enemy Targets And Polling Sites'

The Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (the Taliban organization) claimed to have foiled the September 28, 2019, presidential vote in the country, arguing that "pointless expenditures [on elections], encouragement and time-wasting by foreign invaders in this procedure is not in the interest of any side."

Afghan Taliban: 'Unless The [American] Occupation Ceased, The War Will Not See An End... We Are Religiously And Inherently Obligated To Continue Our Jihad'

On September 21, 2019, two weeks after U.S. President Donald Trump cancelled the year-long U.S.-Taliban negotiations, the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (the Taliban organization) issued two statements, stressing that jihad in Afghanistan will not end before the end of the American occupation.
© 1998-2024, The Middle East Media Research Institute All Rights Reserved. Materials may only be cited with proper attribution
Privacy Policy

Title: Afghanistan - Complex Emergency Fact Sheet #4, Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan+ 3 more
HIGHLIGHTS
Election-related violence results in hundreds of civilian casualties, disruptions to humanitarian assistance
Conflict displaces 283,000 people in 2019, as of September 30
Approximately 383,000 Afghans returned to Afghanistan in 2019
KEY DEVELOPMENTS
As of September 28, conflict—primarily between the Taliban, other non-state armed groups (NSAGs), and Afghanistan National Security Forces (ANSF)—displaced nearly 283,000 people in 2019, including more than 32,300 people in September, according to the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA).
Election-related violence leading up to and during Afghanistan’s September 28 presidential election, including Taliban-planted improvised explosive device (IED) attacks and road closures, negatively affected humanitarian programming throughout the country, according to USAID/OFDA partners.
As of September 26, conflict had resulted in the death of 27 aid workers in 2019, according to the UN. Despite deteriorating security conditions, including more than 310 humanitarian access incidents in Afghanistan since January, relief actors have reached 4.2 million people with humanitarian assistance.
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Afghanistan: Weekly Humanitarian Update (23 - 29 September 2019) - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Northeast: Over 14,000 people displaced
Armed clashes continued between the Afghanistan National Security Force (ANSF) and Non-State Armed Groups (NSAG) in the Khustak area, Jorm district, Badakhshan province, Baharak and Taloqan city in Takhar province, Kunduz city, and Pule-e-Khumri district in Baghlan province. Last week, 7,314 people were displaced in Badakhshan, Baghlan, Kunduz and Takhar provinces due to clashes between the ANSF and NSAG. On 29 September, clashes in Baharak and Khowja Ghar districts in Takhar province displaced 7,000 people to Taloqan city who are staying at the Dashti Rabat areas compound (10 km away from Taloqan city). An inter-agency assessment is ongoing to assess needs. Humanitarian partners will provide those displaced with food, relief items, and hygiene kits in the coming days.
In the past week, 7,287 people displaced by conflict were verified by inter-agency assessment teams in Baghlan, Kunduz, Takhar and Badakhshan provinces as being in need of humanitarian assistance. During the period, 25,718 people displaced by conflict were reported to have received assistance in Kunduz, Baghlan, Badakhshan and Takhar provinces. In Baghlan, 3,850 people were identified as being in need of aid, with people in need expected to triple in the coming weeks. In Badakhshan, the Government provided cash assistance to longer-term internally displaced persons (IDPs) and will conduct a needs assessment. A response to people in need in Takhar is planned when security permits. The government is coordinating with the UN and humanitarian partners to avoid duplication.
North: 2,485 IDPs received humanitarian aid
Clashes between NSAG and the ANSF in Balkh and Faryab provinces continued in the reporting period. NSAG reportedly closed the road linking Maymana city with districts in Faryab province, ahead of the Presidential election.
During the past week, inter-agency teams verified 549 IDPs who were previously displaced by conflict in need of humanitarian assistance in Jawzjan and Sar-e-Pul provinces. During the reporting period, 2,485 IDPs who were affected by conflict were reached with food, relief items, and hygiene kits in Samangan and Faryab provinces.
East: 8,638 people received humanitarian assistance
On 22 September, heavy clashes reportedly erupted among NSAG in the Wazir Tangi area in Khogyani. In the lead up to the Presidential election and on the day itself, 19 Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) were reportedly detonated and an additional six IEDs were discovered in Jalalabad resulting in civilian and ANSF casualties. NSAG also reportedly blocked highways in Kunar province and cut the power supply in Laghman and Nangarhar provinces during election day.
On 26 September, joint assessment teams verified 11,809 people as being in need of humanitarian assistance after being affected by conflict in Surkh Rod district in Nangarhar province and in Nurgal district, Kunar province. 8,638 people were reached with food, relief items, and water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) supplies in Nangarhar and Kunar provinces during the past week.
Centre: Protests in Ghazni after airstrike allegedly causes civilian deaths
On 29 September, residents protested against an airstrike on Khawja Umari district in Ghazni province (28 September) which alleged caused the deaths of several civilians. The Ministry of Interior Affairs released a statement countering the claim and that those killed were NSAG.Between 23 and 24 September, 448 people affected by conflict in Bamyan, Parwan and Panjsher provinces, were reached with humanitarian assistance. Humanitarian partners also identified 511 IDPs affected by conflict who will receive assistance in Maidan Wardak province in the coming days.
West: Almost 6,000 people need humanitarian aid
Inter-agency assessment teams identified 437 IDPs affected by conflict in Injil district and Hirat city in Hirat province and in Chaghcharan city in Ghor province who will receive humanitarian assistance in the coming days. Also, 5,530 IDPs affected by conflict were identified by inter-agency assessment teams to receive humanitarian aid in Qala-e-Kah district, Farah province. Last week, around 1,083 people received humanitarian assistance in Adraskan district in Hirat province and in Qala-e-Naw city in Badghis province.
South: Violence hampers healthcare and displaced 1,610 civilians
Ongoing ANSF military operations resulted in the displacement of 1,610 people in Uruzgan province. More than 20 civilians including children and women were reportedly killed or injured due to clashes between the ANSF and NSAG in Musa Qala district in Hilmand province. On 28 September, an IED was detonated in the Shah Bazar area in Kandahar province and reportedly injured 15 voters. On the same day, in Zabul Province, a hospital near Qalat city was reportedly hit by a rocket, wounding three civilians. On 30 September, two health facilities in Shahjoy, Zabul were reportedly closed following an NSAG warning for unknown reasons. Fighting between the ANSF and NSAG in Shahjoy city was reported in recent days and negotiations to reopen the heath facilities have been ongoing.
On 24 September, around 1,155 people received humanitarian assistance in Spin Boldak in Kandahar, Zaranj in Nimroz and Qalat in Zabul.
Civilians impacted by election-related violence
The overall security situation across the country remained volatile in the lead-up to and during the Presidential election on 28 September. Hundreds of security incidents were reported across all regions with the highest volumes occurring in the eastern, southeastern and northeastern parts of the county. Initial reports indicate that hundreds of civilian casualties were recorded, the majority of which were injuries. Although incident volumes, targets and casualties are still being verified, it appears that some schools and healthcare infrastructure were also impacted.
Further to the above, key roads across the country were reportedly closed to civilian traffic and electricity and mobile phone networks were interrupted before and during the Presidential election; particularly in the northern and northeastern parts of the country.
Afghanistan+ 2 more
World
World
World
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Afghanistan | ReliefWeb Response
Afghanistan
Highlights

Humanitarian partners are ramping up response efforts following heavy windstorms, severe rainfall and flash floods that struck multiple districts of Badakhshan, Baghlan, Kunar, Laghman, Nangarhar and Nuristan provinces in eastern and northeastern Afghanistan on 15 and…
Afghanistan is facing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis with a very real risk of systemic collapse and human catastrophe.
PEOPLE IN NEED:29.2M |PLANNED REACH:17.3MINTER-SECTOR REACH:1.9M |OVERALL REACHED:12.1MREQUIREMENTS (US$):$3.06B |RECEIVED (US$):735.2M
This multi-sectoral Response Plan requires approximately $93.6 million to support 114,000 earthquake-affected people in Herat.
Individuals fled their homes dueto conflict. Displacement affects all people differently.
Afghanistan is prone to earthquakes, flooding, drought, landslides and avalanches.
Humanitarian Operational Presence and Operational Capacity.
Concise operational document to support the coordination of humanitarian response in Afghanistan.
Visual of key issues and trends related to the Afghanistan humanitarian response.
Afghanistan
Background
In an increasingly complex operating environment, stronger coordination around humanitarian needs assessments is critical to enable effective assessment of multi-dimensional needs; optimise available resources (including use of trained enumerators); reduce the burden on key informants; and…
Afghanistan
Afghanistan is facing the devastating effects of almost forty years of war, increasing poverty and natural disasters, all of which were amplified by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. At the beginning of 2021, almost 17…
Afghanistan
Overview
Due to security concerns and socio-cultural barriers, some female personnel may face challenges when travelling for work or participating in other professional activities. These persistent barriers to full participation in the workforce have resulted in diminished…
Afghanistan
UN announces Transitional Engagement Framework (TEF) for Afghanistan to save lives, sustain services and preserve community systems
Kabul, Geneva, New York, 26 January 2022 – The UN team in Afghanistan has launched its One-UN Transitional Engagement Framework…

Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services



Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:51Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Afghanistan | ReliefWeb Response
Afghanistan
Highlights

Humanitarian partners are ramping up response efforts following heavy windstorms, severe rainfall and flash floods that struck multiple districts of Badakhshan, Baghlan, Kunar, Laghman, Nangarhar and Nuristan provinces in eastern and northeastern Afghanistan on 15 and…
Afghanistan is facing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis with a very real risk of systemic collapse and human catastrophe.
PEOPLE IN NEED:29.2M |PLANNED REACH:17.3MINTER-SECTOR REACH:1.9M |OVERALL REACHED:12.1MREQUIREMENTS (US$):$3.06B |RECEIVED (US$):735.2M
This multi-sectoral Response Plan requires approximately $93.6 million to support 114,000 earthquake-affected people in Herat.
Individuals fled their homes dueto conflict. Displacement affects all people differently.
Afghanistan is prone to earthquakes, flooding, drought, landslides and avalanches.
Humanitarian Operational Presence and Operational Capacity.
Concise operational document to support the coordination of humanitarian response in Afghanistan.
Visual of key issues and trends related to the Afghanistan humanitarian response.
Afghanistan
Background
In an increasingly complex operating environment, stronger coordination around humanitarian needs assessments is critical to enable effective assessment of multi-dimensional needs; optimise available resources (including use of trained enumerators); reduce the burden on key informants; and…
Afghanistan
Afghanistan is facing the devastating effects of almost forty years of war, increasing poverty and natural disasters, all of which were amplified by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. At the beginning of 2021, almost 17…
Afghanistan
Overview
Due to security concerns and socio-cultural barriers, some female personnel may face challenges when travelling for work or participating in other professional activities. These persistent barriers to full participation in the workforce have resulted in diminished…
Afghanistan
UN announces Transitional Engagement Framework (TEF) for Afghanistan to save lives, sustain services and preserve community systems
Kabul, Geneva, New York, 26 January 2022 – The UN team in Afghanistan has launched its One-UN Transitional Engagement Framework…

Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services



Title: Afghanistan: Weekly Humanitarian Update (30 September – 6 October 2019) - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Northeast: Over 11,000 people displaced
Armed clashes continued between Afghanistan National Security Forces (ANSF) and Non-State Armed Groups (NSAG) in the Jadid, Dahana-e-Ghuri, and Chashma-e-Sher areas, Pule-e-Khumri district in Baghlan province, and Baharak, Yangi Qala and Khwanja Ghar districts in Takhar province. On 1 October, 11,270 people were displaced in Badakhshan, Baghlan, and Takhar provinces due to clashes between ANSF and NSAG. Inter-agency teams have assessed that all 11,270 internally displaced persons (IDPs) as being in need of humanitarian assistance.
During the reporting period, 7,252 IDPs who were affected by conflict were reached with food, relief items, and hygiene kits in Takhar and Kunduz provinces. The road connecting Mazar, Baghlan and Kunduz remained closed to civilian traffic.
North: 4,774 IDPs received humanitarian aid
Clashes between NSAG and ANSF in Balkh and Faryab provinces continued in the reporting period while humanitarian access in most northern districts remained restricted.
During the past week, inter-agency teams verified 637 IDPs who were previously displaced by conflict as being in need of humanitarian assistance in Faryab, Jawzjan, Samangan, Balkh and Sar-e-Pul provinces. During the reporting period, 4,774 IDPs who were affected by conflict were reached with food, relief items, and water, hygiene and sanitation (WASH) in Balkh and Jawzjan provinces.
East: 2,965 children reached with health services
Across the eastern part of the country, health cluster partners provided emergency health services reaching 2,965 returnees, IDPs and host communities through outpatient services during the reporting period. Also, 4,252 children received vaccinations in the east. However, 7,960 children under five remain unable to receive routine immunization services due to a ban in nine major areas in Kunar province.
Last week, 8 joint assessment teams verified 2,331 people as being in need of humanitarian assistance after being affected by conflict in Mazardara, Nurgal district, Kunar province. 5,432 people were reached with food, relief items, and water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) supplies in Kunar province during the past week.
Centre: 1,225 people received humanitarian assistance
On 4 October, the Maidan Shar-Jalriz road in Maidan Wardak Province was reopened by the ANSF after having been closed since 10 September. On 2 and 3 October, 1,225 people affected by conflict in Maidan Wardak, Paktika, Paktya and Kabul provinces, were reached with humanitarian assistance.
West: Increased need for protection, including for children
In the western part of the country, protracted displacement is contributing to increased protection issues at informal IDP sites such as child labour, child marriage and abuse. There is an urgent need for expanded Child Protection services. Some 84,516 people remain in 7 informal sites since they were displaced by drought and other factors in 2018 and early 2019. The vast majority of those remaining in displacement sites are in Hirat as most IDPs in Badghis have returned to their homes. While protection monitoring is ongoing, most humanitarian assistance stopped at these sites at the end of June. Many of those remaining in displacement sites are vulnerable and have needs, while some are living in the open air. As the temperatures has begun to drop, more sustainable solutions are urgently required.
396 IDPs affected by conflict were identified by inter-agency assessment teams to receive humanitarian aid in Farah province. Last week, around 1,245 people received humanitarian assistance in Hirat, Ghor and Farah provinces.
South: Temporary closure of health facilities
Around 1,169 people have reportedly been displaced to Zaranj in Nimroz province due to ongoing clashes and violence throughout the south and in neighbouring provinces. Also, ongoing ANSF military operations and airstrikes in Gizab, Khas Uruzgan and Tirinkot resulted in the displacement of people to Tirinkot city in Uruzgan province. Two children and one woman were reportedly killed and two other children were injured by a rocket in the same family in Tirinkot, Uruzgan province. Last week, two improvised explosive device detonations and rocket attacks reportedly injured three civilians in Qalat; and injured five and killed three other civilians in Shah Joy, Zabul province.
Following the reported closure of two health facilities in Shah Joy district on 30 September, an additional four other health facilities were closed due to threats in Shah Joy, Qalat, and Tarnak Wa Jaldak districts, Zabul province last week which resulted in more than 120,000 people being deprived of basic and emergency health services. The majority of these locations have resumed service provision. Similar closures have been reported in Dilaram, Khashrod district in Nimroz province.
Inter-agency assessments are ongoing in Nimroz, Uruzgan, and Hilmand provinces. So far, 485 people were identified by the assessment team in Spin Boldak in Kandahar province as being in need of humanitarian aid.
Pakistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan
Pakistan
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Afghanistan | ReliefWeb Response
Afghanistan
Highlights

Humanitarian partners are ramping up response efforts following heavy windstorms, severe rainfall and flash floods that struck multiple districts of Badakhshan, Baghlan, Kunar, Laghman, Nangarhar and Nuristan provinces in eastern and northeastern Afghanistan on 15 and…
Afghanistan is facing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis with a very real risk of systemic collapse and human catastrophe.
PEOPLE IN NEED:29.2M |PLANNED REACH:17.3MINTER-SECTOR REACH:1.9M |OVERALL REACHED:12.1MREQUIREMENTS (US$):$3.06B |RECEIVED (US$):735.2M
This multi-sectoral Response Plan requires approximately $93.6 million to support 114,000 earthquake-affected people in Herat.
Individuals fled their homes dueto conflict. Displacement affects all people differently.
Afghanistan is prone to earthquakes, flooding, drought, landslides and avalanches.
Humanitarian Operational Presence and Operational Capacity.
Concise operational document to support the coordination of humanitarian response in Afghanistan.
Visual of key issues and trends related to the Afghanistan humanitarian response.
Afghanistan
Background
In an increasingly complex operating environment, stronger coordination around humanitarian needs assessments is critical to enable effective assessment of multi-dimensional needs; optimise available resources (including use of trained enumerators); reduce the burden on key informants; and…
Afghanistan
Afghanistan is facing the devastating effects of almost forty years of war, increasing poverty and natural disasters, all of which were amplified by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. At the beginning of 2021, almost 17…
Afghanistan
Overview
Due to security concerns and socio-cultural barriers, some female personnel may face challenges when travelling for work or participating in other professional activities. These persistent barriers to full participation in the workforce have resulted in diminished…
Afghanistan
UN announces Transitional Engagement Framework (TEF) for Afghanistan to save lives, sustain services and preserve community systems
Kabul, Geneva, New York, 26 January 2022 – The UN team in Afghanistan has launched its One-UN Transitional Engagement Framework…

Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services



Title: Afghanistan | ReliefWeb Response
Afghanistan
Highlights

Humanitarian partners are ramping up response efforts following heavy windstorms, severe rainfall and flash floods that struck multiple districts of Badakhshan, Baghlan, Kunar, Laghman, Nangarhar and Nuristan provinces in eastern and northeastern Afghanistan on 15 and…
Afghanistan is facing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis with a very real risk of systemic collapse and human catastrophe.
PEOPLE IN NEED:29.2M |PLANNED REACH:17.3MINTER-SECTOR REACH:1.9M |OVERALL REACHED:12.1MREQUIREMENTS (US$):$3.06B |RECEIVED (US$):735.2M
This multi-sectoral Response Plan requires approximately $93.6 million to support 114,000 earthquake-affected people in Herat.
Individuals fled their homes dueto conflict. Displacement affects all people differently.
Afghanistan is prone to earthquakes, flooding, drought, landslides and avalanches.
Humanitarian Operational Presence and Operational Capacity.
Concise operational document to support the coordination of humanitarian response in Afghanistan.
Visual of key issues and trends related to the Afghanistan humanitarian response.
Afghanistan
Background
In an increasingly complex operating environment, stronger coordination around humanitarian needs assessments is critical to enable effective assessment of multi-dimensional needs; optimise available resources (including use of trained enumerators); reduce the burden on key informants; and…
Afghanistan
Afghanistan is facing the devastating effects of almost forty years of war, increasing poverty and natural disasters, all of which were amplified by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. At the beginning of 2021, almost 17…
Afghanistan
Overview
Due to security concerns and socio-cultural barriers, some female personnel may face challenges when travelling for work or participating in other professional activities. These persistent barriers to full participation in the workforce have resulted in diminished…
Afghanistan
UN announces Transitional Engagement Framework (TEF) for Afghanistan to save lives, sustain services and preserve community systems
Kabul, Geneva, New York, 26 January 2022 – The UN team in Afghanistan has launched its One-UN Transitional Engagement Framework…

Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services



Title: Who owns the night? Taliban use of night vision goggles tips the scale | SOFREP
THANK YOU FOR SUPPORTING VETERAN JOURNALISM - JOIN SOFREP →Support Veteran Journalism →
JOIN NOWLogin
Despite 19 years of war, theTalibanare still a dominant faction inAfghanistan. Their ability to wreak havoc at will highlights the Afghan government’s feebleness. A frailty that becomes ever more pronounced as U.S. and coalition forces gradually withdraw from the country. In their way toward defeating their opponent – or reducing his will to fight – the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) are facing a mountain that isn’t becoming smaller. In fact, it only becomes larger asTalibanforces grow stronger, both in terms of technological advances and combat effectiveness, by the day.
Arecent United Nations (U.N.) reporthas found thatTalibanunits field with an increased frequency Night Vision Goggles (NVGs) and Vision-Enhancement Devices (VED). This translates into more effective and lethalTalibanunits. Although ANSF Special Operations Forces (SOF) also sport NVGs, the fact that their opponents also do puts them on a more equal footing and further decreases their combat effectiveness.
According to the U.N. report, “theTalibanhave continued to undermine the morale of the Afghan National Defence and Security Forces by carrying out nocturnal attacks against isolated checkpoints, aided by new supplies of night vision scopes and sniper rifles arriving intoTalibanarsenals. This simple yet effective tactic has aided theTaliban’sbattle for control of rural areas and is likely a key reason for the Afghan National Defence and Security Forces ceding further ground toTalibanforces this year in an effort to consolidate government-held areas without taking excessive casualties in remote military outposts.”
To acquire the NVGs and other materiel, theTalibanare relying on their staple opium poppy fields, as well as on illicit mining, extortion, and donations from abroad.
Furthermore, theTalibancan field a force of approximately 60,000 to 65,000 fighters, and half-that number in facilitators and other non-combat personnel. This figure doesn’t include other factions in the country that are opposed to the U.S-led coalition and the Afghan government.
U.S. and coalitionSOFcan rightly claim thatthey own the night. NVGs, body-heat sensors, infrared devices, and other gadgets allow American and allied commandos to find and destroy the enemy, whether that is aTalibansentry guarding a high-value-target on a remote Afghan village or a Somali pirate high on khat watching for the dreaded men with the green eyes.
That advantage, however, would decrease, or diminish altogether, in case of a conflict with a near-peer adversary. China, and Russia to a lesser degree, both field professional militaries with similar capabilities to the West’s. And in a potential contingency, U.S. and allied troops would be at an equal footing with their enemies – after decades of fighting technologically inferior opponents.
Despite 19 years of war, theTalibanare still a dominant faction inAfghanistan. Their ability to wreak havoc at will highlights the Afghan government’s feebleness. A frailty that becomes ever more pronounced as U.S. and coalition forces gradually withdraw from the country. In their way toward defeating their opponent – or reducing his will to fight – the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) are facing a mountain that isn’t becoming smaller. In fact, it only becomes larger asTalibanforces grow stronger, both in terms of technological advances and combat effectiveness, by the day.
Arecent United Nations (U.N.) reporthas found thatTalibanunits field with an increased frequency Night Vision Goggles (NVGs) and Vision-Enhancement Devices (VED). This translates into more effective and lethalTalibanunits. Although ANSF Special Operations Forces (SOF) also sport NVGs, the fact that their opponents also do puts them on a more equal footing and further decreases their combat effectiveness.
According to the U.N. report, “theTalibanhave continued to undermine the morale of the Afghan National Defence and Security Forces by carrying out nocturnal attacks against isolated checkpoints, aided by new supplies of night vision scopes and sniper rifles arriving intoTalibanarsenals. This simple yet effective tactic has aided theTaliban’sbattle for control of rural areas and is likely a key reason for the Afghan National Defence and Security Forces ceding further ground toTalibanforces this year in an effort to consolidate government-held areas without taking excessive casualties in remote military outposts.”
To acquire the NVGs and other materiel, theTalibanare relying on their staple opium poppy fields, as well as on illicit mining, extortion, and donations from abroad.
Furthermore, theTalibancan field a force of approximately 60,000 to 65,000 fighters, and half-that number in facilitators and other non-combat personnel. This figure doesn’t include other factions in the country that are opposed to the U.S-led coalition and the Afghan government.
U.S. and coalitionSOFcan rightly claim thatthey own the night. NVGs, body-heat sensors, infrared devices, and other gadgets allow American and allied commandos to find and destroy the enemy, whether that is aTalibansentry guarding a high-value-target on a remote Afghan village or a Somali pirate high on khat watching for the dreaded men with the green eyes.
That advantage, however, would decrease, or diminish altogether, in case of a conflict with a near-peer adversary. China, and Russia to a lesser degree, both field professional militaries with similar capabilities to the West’s. And in a potential contingency, U.S. and allied troops would be at an equal footing with their enemies – after decades of fighting technologically inferior opponents.
There areon this article.
You must become asubscriberorloginto view or post comments on this article.
Delta Operator Faces Free-Fall Malfunction at 17,000 Feet
Abu Tashin al-Salhi, Legendary Iraqi Sniper With Over 320 Confirmed Kills Against ISIS
Navy SEAL Origins, Brandon Webb: Kicked Out Age 16 and Alone in the South Pacific Ocean. My crazy journey into the SEAL Teams.
Armor’s Worst Nightmare: How China’s Kinetic Energy Weapons Are Changing the Game
Pentagon Reports Say China’s New H-20 Bomber Has Concerning Attack Range
Colton Z.·
Proactive Gun Detection To Help Prevent Mass Shootings: Insights from Navy SEAL Mike Lahiff · 5 hours ago
Guy McCardle, Jr.·
Marine Machine Gunner Shows You How To Set Up an AR-15 for Home Defense · 21 hours ago
RonB.·
Marine Machine Gunner Shows You How To Set Up an AR-15 for Home Defense · 1 day ago
Guy McCardle, Jr.·
Navy SEAL Origins, Brandon Webb: Kicked Out Age 16 and Alone in the South Pacific Ocean. My crazy journey into the SEAL Teams. · 1 day ago
Tonjand H.·
Navy SEAL Origins, Brandon Webb: Kicked Out Age 16 and Alone in the South Pacific Ocean. My crazy journey into the SEAL Teams. · 1 day ago
Your Subscription Supports our Veteran Staff
Barrett is the world leader in long-range, large-caliber, precision rifle design and manufacturing. Barrett products are used by civilians, sport shooters, law enforcement agencies, the United States military, and more than 75 State Department-approved countries around the world.
Our ultra-portable washing machine makes your journey easier. This convenient, pocket-sized travel companion allows you to travel lighter while helping you save money, time and water.
Our roots in shooting sports started off back in 1996 with our founder and CEO, Josh Ungier. His love of airguns took hold of our company from day one and we became the first e-commerce retailer dedicated to airguns, optics, ammo, and accessories. Over the next 25 years, customers turned to us for our unmatched product selection, great advice, education, and continued support of the sport and airgun industry.
RecPak is a meal replacement for the outdoors that saves you weight, space and time in the most challenging environments, just add water.
© 2024 The SOFREP Media Group. All Rights Reserved.

Title: Pakistan avoids FATF 'black list,' gets stern warning – DW – 10/18/2019
A global money-laundering watchdog has decided not to place Pakistan in its "black list," for now. Islamabad has been given four months to prove it is fighting terror financing. Shamil Shams reports from Paris.
Pakistan has until February toimprove its counter-terror financing operationsin line with an internationally agreed plan or face actions against it, Xiangmin Liu, the chairman of the Paris-based Financial Action Task Force (FATF), an inter-governmental body established in 1989 to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, told a press conference on Friday.
"The FATF strongly urges Pakistan to swiftly complete its full action plan by February 2020," the body said in a statement. "Otherwise, should significant and sustainable progress not be made across the full range of its action plan by the next Plenary, the FATF will take action."
Pakistan, thus, remains in FATF's "gray list" until the completion of another review in February.
"While noting recent improvements, the FATF again expresses serious concerns with the overall lack of progress by Pakistan to address its TF [terror financing] risks, including remaining deficiencies in demonstrating a sufficient understanding of Pakistan's transnational TF risks, more broadly, Pakistan's failure to complete its action plan in line with the agreed timelines and in light of the TF risks emanating from the jurisdiction," FATF said.
Consequences for Pakistan
The global watchdog put Pakistan on its "gray list" in June 2018, and gave Islamabad an October 2019 deadline to take action against home-grown militant Islamist groups and cut off their funding.
Being "blacklisted" by the 37-nation bloc could have serious implications for Pakistan's already fragile economy, as possible sanctions would not allow the country from seeking the financial loans it needs on a regular basis.
FATF's Friday decision to keep the South Asian country on its "gray list" until February shows that the body believes that Pakistan's financial system continues to pose a risk to the international financial system because of "strategic deficiencies" in its ability to prevent terror financing and money laundering.
Read more:Global terror watchlist: Will Pakistan change its Afghanistan policy?
The FATF gray list also features Ethiopia, Yemen, Iraq, Syria, Serbia, Sri Lanka, Trinidad and Tobago, Vanuatu and Tunisia. Last year, Bosnia and Herzegovina were shifted to the "white list."
Has Pakistan gone after terrorists?
In August, Hammad Azhar, Pakistan's minister for economic affairs, said that Pakistan would "do everything to promote peace in the region," adding that it was improbable that Pakistan would be placed on the FATF "black list."
"We have explicitly told all the participants of the APG (FATF's Asia-Pacific Group on Money Laundering) that Pakistan is working exactly per the requirements of FATF and would accomplish them soon," said Azhar, who was part of the Pakistani delegation at the most recent FATF review in Paris.
Sources in Paris say Pakistan has completely or partly compiled with most of the 40 FATF demands, albeit some of them need more work.
Read more:Opinion: Imran Khan — one year of stumbling ineptitude
Prime Minister Imran Khan's government did take some steps to allay the concerns of the international community. The authorities detained Hafiz Saeed, the alleged mastermind of the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, and arrested four top officials of Saeed's Lashkar-e-Taiba group on charges of terrorism financing.
Alice Wells, head of the US State Department's South and Central Asian Bureau, welcomed the measures, saying that "Pakistan, for its own future, must prevent militant groups from operating on its soil."
India, however, is still unsatisfied with Pakistan's counterterrorism measures, alleging they're an eyewash and demanding FATF to blacklist the country.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
"Islamabad has no other option but to act against militants. The international community is demanding Pakistan's security establishment to put things in order," Khalid Hameed Farooqi, a Brussels-based senior Pakistani journalist and diplomatic affairs analyst, told DW.
He added that former PM Nawaz Sharif's government had taken several legislative actions to rein in Islamists, but the country's powerful military continued to back some proxy jihadist groups.
Read more:What is Pakistan's militancy issue all about?
"In 2017, the Pakistani government sent several top diplomats to Washington, Paris and Brussels, to highlight Indian atrocities in Kashmir. But the officials in these Western capitals clearly told them to act against Hafiz Saeed first," said Farooqi, underlining the importance of Saeed's arrest in avoiding the FATF black list.
But Amjad Shoaib, a retired military official and defense analyst, says that FATF is "an instrument in the hands of big powers."
"India and the US have ganged up against Pakistan. We should not be blackmailed. There is no evidence against Hafiz Saeed. Still we arrested him. These are all pressure tactics," Shoaib stressed.
No long-term strategy
Security analysts say that Pakistani authorities are only focused on avoiding FATF's "black list" instead of tackling the issue on a long-term basis. They say the country's longstanding security policies regarding India and Afghanistan have remained intact.
Islamabad's ties with New Delhi and Kabul have only deteriorated in the past few years, with Afghan and Indian authorities accusing Pakistan of aiding militant groups.
Tensions between India and Pakistan have increased manifold this year due to an escalating Kashmir conflict. On the other hand, Pakistan's efforts to broker a peace deal between the US and the Afghan Taliban have so far not yielded results.
Read more:Pakistan says 'action being taken against Jaish-e-Mohammed' militant group
"FATF is pressuring Pakistan so that it can bring the Taliban to a peace settlement. The 'black list' threat is being used to force Pakistan to serve American interests," said Shoaib.
But Usman Kakar, a Pakistani senator, says shifting blame on others won't help Pakistan. "It is unfortunate that Pakistan is still distinguishing between good and bad militants. We have not taken any concrete action against terrorist organizations," he said.
"But I think Pakistan is still not going to be blacklisted by FATF because Washington needs Islamabad right now. I think the FATF will give more time to Pakistan," said Kakar.
"But in the meantime, we must crack down on all extremist and terrorist outfits because it is in our own interest," he added.

Title: Pakistan avoids FATF 'black list,' gets stern warning – DW – 10/18/2019
A global money-laundering watchdog has decided not to place Pakistan in its "black list," for now. Islamabad has been given four months to prove it is fighting terror financing. Shamil Shams reports from Paris.
Pakistan has until February toimprove its counter-terror financing operationsin line with an internationally agreed plan or face actions against it, Xiangmin Liu, the chairman of the Paris-based Financial Action Task Force (FATF), an inter-governmental body established in 1989 to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, told a press conference on Friday.
"The FATF strongly urges Pakistan to swiftly complete its full action plan by February 2020," the body said in a statement. "Otherwise, should significant and sustainable progress not be made across the full range of its action plan by the next Plenary, the FATF will take action."
Pakistan, thus, remains in FATF's "gray list" until the completion of another review in February.
"While noting recent improvements, the FATF again expresses serious concerns with the overall lack of progress by Pakistan to address its TF [terror financing] risks, including remaining deficiencies in demonstrating a sufficient understanding of Pakistan's transnational TF risks, more broadly, Pakistan's failure to complete its action plan in line with the agreed timelines and in light of the TF risks emanating from the jurisdiction," FATF said.
Consequences for Pakistan
The global watchdog put Pakistan on its "gray list" in June 2018, and gave Islamabad an October 2019 deadline to take action against home-grown militant Islamist groups and cut off their funding.
Being "blacklisted" by the 37-nation bloc could have serious implications for Pakistan's already fragile economy, as possible sanctions would not allow the country from seeking the financial loans it needs on a regular basis.
FATF's Friday decision to keep the South Asian country on its "gray list" until February shows that the body believes that Pakistan's financial system continues to pose a risk to the international financial system because of "strategic deficiencies" in its ability to prevent terror financing and money laundering.
Read more:Global terror watchlist: Will Pakistan change its Afghanistan policy?
The FATF gray list also features Ethiopia, Yemen, Iraq, Syria, Serbia, Sri Lanka, Trinidad and Tobago, Vanuatu and Tunisia. Last year, Bosnia and Herzegovina were shifted to the "white list."
Has Pakistan gone after terrorists?
In August, Hammad Azhar, Pakistan's minister for economic affairs, said that Pakistan would "do everything to promote peace in the region," adding that it was improbable that Pakistan would be placed on the FATF "black list."
"We have explicitly told all the participants of the APG (FATF's Asia-Pacific Group on Money Laundering) that Pakistan is working exactly per the requirements of FATF and would accomplish them soon," said Azhar, who was part of the Pakistani delegation at the most recent FATF review in Paris.
Sources in Paris say Pakistan has completely or partly compiled with most of the 40 FATF demands, albeit some of them need more work.
Read more:Opinion: Imran Khan — one year of stumbling ineptitude
Prime Minister Imran Khan's government did take some steps to allay the concerns of the international community. The authorities detained Hafiz Saeed, the alleged mastermind of the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks, and arrested four top officials of Saeed's Lashkar-e-Taiba group on charges of terrorism financing.
Alice Wells, head of the US State Department's South and Central Asian Bureau, welcomed the measures, saying that "Pakistan, for its own future, must prevent militant groups from operating on its soil."
India, however, is still unsatisfied with Pakistan's counterterrorism measures, alleging they're an eyewash and demanding FATF to blacklist the country.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
"Islamabad has no other option but to act against militants. The international community is demanding Pakistan's security establishment to put things in order," Khalid Hameed Farooqi, a Brussels-based senior Pakistani journalist and diplomatic affairs analyst, told DW.
He added that former PM Nawaz Sharif's government had taken several legislative actions to rein in Islamists, but the country's powerful military continued to back some proxy jihadist groups.
Read more:What is Pakistan's militancy issue all about?
"In 2017, the Pakistani government sent several top diplomats to Washington, Paris and Brussels, to highlight Indian atrocities in Kashmir. But the officials in these Western capitals clearly told them to act against Hafiz Saeed first," said Farooqi, underlining the importance of Saeed's arrest in avoiding the FATF black list.
But Amjad Shoaib, a retired military official and defense analyst, says that FATF is "an instrument in the hands of big powers."
"India and the US have ganged up against Pakistan. We should not be blackmailed. There is no evidence against Hafiz Saeed. Still we arrested him. These are all pressure tactics," Shoaib stressed.
No long-term strategy
Security analysts say that Pakistani authorities are only focused on avoiding FATF's "black list" instead of tackling the issue on a long-term basis. They say the country's longstanding security policies regarding India and Afghanistan have remained intact.
Islamabad's ties with New Delhi and Kabul have only deteriorated in the past few years, with Afghan and Indian authorities accusing Pakistan of aiding militant groups.
Tensions between India and Pakistan have increased manifold this year due to an escalating Kashmir conflict. On the other hand, Pakistan's efforts to broker a peace deal between the US and the Afghan Taliban have so far not yielded results.
Read more:Pakistan says 'action being taken against Jaish-e-Mohammed' militant group
"FATF is pressuring Pakistan so that it can bring the Taliban to a peace settlement. The 'black list' threat is being used to force Pakistan to serve American interests," said Shoaib.
But Usman Kakar, a Pakistani senator, says shifting blame on others won't help Pakistan. "It is unfortunate that Pakistan is still distinguishing between good and bad militants. We have not taken any concrete action against terrorist organizations," he said.
"But I think Pakistan is still not going to be blacklisted by FATF because Washington needs Islamabad right now. I think the FATF will give more time to Pakistan," said Kakar.
"But in the meantime, we must crack down on all extremist and terrorist outfits because it is in our own interest," he added.

Title: Swapping 3 Indian engineers with 11 Taliban terrorists — the Afghan deal, explained | Explained News - The Indian Express
The Afghan Taliban on Sundayfreed three Indian engineersthat they had taken hostage last year, in exchange for the release of 11 of the terrorist group’s members who had been imprisoned in Afghanistan.
In May 2018, seven Indians engineers working with Indian power company KEC International were abducted by the Taliban in the Baghlan province in northern Afghanistan. In March this year, one of the kidnapped engineers returned safely to India.
The prisoner-swap deal follows meetings between US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad and Taliban representatives led by Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar in Islamabad over the weekend.
The kidnapping of May 2018
The engineers from India were working for KEC, a global infrastructure engineering, procurement and construction major, and one of the largest Indian companies in Afghanistan responsible for electricity supply in the country.
In May 2018, while they were working at a power station in Baghlan province, the Indian engineers were kidnapped from their vehicle along with their Afghan driver. According to local reports, the KEC employees were taken away by armed men in Bagh-e-Shamal village of the provincial capital Pul-e-Khomri, while they were travelling to the area where KEC has a contract to operate an electricity sub-station.
The Afghan news organisation TOLOnews had then reported that the Taliban group had moved the KEC employees to Dand-e-Shahabuddin area of Pul-e-Khomri city.
Earlier abductions of Indians
This wasn’t the first time that Indians working in Afghanistan were kidnapped.
In July 2016, Indian aid worker Judith D’Souza was rescued more than a month after she was kidnapped in Kabul.
In June 2014, Father Alexis Prem Kumar, a Roman Catholic priest from India, was abducted by unidentified gunmen in the Afghan city of Herat. He was released in February 2015.
Between 2003 and 2008, three Indians were kidnapped and released. However, two Indians were killed after they were abducted.
The released Taliban members
The BBC reported that among the 11 militants freed were three key Taliban figures, including a member of the Haqqani Network.
According to The New York Times, one of them is Abdul Rashid Baluch, who was previously listed as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist by the US Treasury Department. Baluch has been accused of deploying suicide bombers and helping finance the Taliban through the drugs trade in Afghanistan.
Another member, the BBC said, was a “shadow” governor for Kunar province, and a member of the powerful Haqqani Network.
The terrorist network, an offshoot of the Taliban which was founded by the radical cleric and veteran Afghan mujahideen commander Jalaluddin Haqqani, takes its name from the Darul Uloom Haqqania madrasa in Pakistan and is headquartered in Miramshah in Pakistan’s North Waziristan. The Haqqani Network is accused of plotting co-ordinated attacks on both Afghan andNATOforces in Afghanistan.
The Taliban members have been released from the high-security Bagram prison.
Don’t miss from Explained:Ahead of proposed Modi-Xi meeting, understanding ‘Informal Summits’
Karan Johar is frustrated with Hindi movie stars demanding high fees. He changed his approach and refuses to pay high salaries. Zoya Akhtar criticised him for contributing to this trend. Karan also pointed out the unfairness in the industry where below-the-line talent is underpaid while stars demand high fees without guaranteeing success.



Title: Sources: US envoy in Kabul negotiating hostage release – San Diego Union-Tribune
e-Edition
Get the latest news in your inbox!

Get the latest news in your inbox!
e-Edition
Trending:
ISLAMABADISLAMABAD — Officials say Washington’s peace envoy is in the Afghan capital Kabul trying to negotiate a prisoner exchange that would free America Kevin King and Australian Timothy Weeks, two professors at the American University held by the Taliban since 2016.Zalmay Khalilzad was in Kabul on Thursday trying to barter a prisoner exchange that could resuscitate peace efforts to end Afghanistan’s 18-year war, America’s longest, they said.The officials, who are familiar with Khalilzad’s efforts, spoke on condition of anonymity because they are not authorized to speak to the media.Among others, the Taliban are demanding the release of Anas Haqqani, the younger brother of Sirajuddin, deputy head of the Taliban and leader of the Haqqani network, often considered the strongest of the Taliban fighting in Afghanistan.___Associated Press writer Deb Riechmann in Washington contributed to this report.
Zalmay Khalilzad was in Kabul on Thursday trying to barter a prisoner exchange that could resuscitate peace efforts to end Afghanistan’s 18-year war, America’s longest, they said.
The officials, who are familiar with Khalilzad’s efforts, spoke on condition of anonymity because they are not authorized to speak to the media.
Among others, the Taliban are demanding the release of Anas Haqqani, the younger brother of Sirajuddin, deputy head of the Taliban and leader of the Haqqani network, often considered the strongest of the Taliban fighting in Afghanistan.
___
Associated Press writer Deb Riechmann in Washington contributed to this report.
Copyright © 2024 MediaNews Group