Title: TAPI: Peace or Continued Power Struggles? - Brown Political Review
The Turkmenistan–Afghanistan–Pakistan–India (TAPI) Pipeline, a natural gas pipeline, has been hailed as a “peace pipeline” with the potential to develop cooperation between regional rivals and strengthen economic development throughout the region. While India quenches its increasing energy needs and Turkmenistan expands the market for its extensive natural gas reserves, Afghanistan and Pakistan additionally receive shares of the profits. Politically, the project seeks to reduce tensions between Pakistan and India by creating a win-win economic situation. Stakeholders would also have reason to increase security in Afghanistan, reducing violence in the war-torn nation. With Pakistan supporting the Taliban in order to check India’s influence in Afghanistan, the pipelinecould encourage Pakistanto push the Taliban towards peace.
Construction on the Afghan section of TAPIhas recently begun, but still faces a significant obstacle in theTaliban. The pipeline will run through territory held by the group, raising security concerns. The Taliban, however, have previouslysaidthey would support the pipeline and its development. On the surface, then, the project seems set to unite regional powers as well as warring factions within Afghanistan. This optimistic view, however, fails to consider the overarching strategic objectives of the actors involved. Rather than developing stronger, more peaceful connections between competing players, TAPI could serve to only heighten tensions and regional competition by weakening the Afghan state.
Within Afghanistan, the pipeline could very well bring peace — but unfortunately with strings attached. President Ashraf Ghani of Afghanistan recently extended a peace offer to the Taliban during the recentKabul Process Conference. The Taliban have yet to respond, indicating theycould potentiallycome to the negotiating table. The government’s peace offer, however, yields significant concessions to the Taliban. Under the deal, the government would return Taliban prisoners, recognize the Taliban as a legitimate political party, and fully integrate them into the Afghan state. Importantly, these terms include all of those for which the Taliban have previously pushed, with the noticeable omission of foreign troop withdrawal. The willingness of Afghanistan’s government to meet so many demands coincides with construction of the TAPI pipeline, with Ghani stressing the significance of the pipeline in the same statement as his peace offer. As such, the TAPI pipeline has clearly raised the Taliban’s bargaining power. With the pipeline regarded as vital to Afghanistan’s development through its ability to bring  in much-needed cash and jobs, the Talibancan demandmore compensation for their cooperation.
A legitimized Taliban, while potentially decreasing violence, could fracture Afghanistan and hinder future development of the state. As an institutionalized political party, the Taliban would still maintain significant control in certain areas. As a group inclined towards self-preservation, the Taliban would oppose total control by the central government, instead maintaining some degree of independence and ultimately degrading state strength and impeding long-term development. Lebanon’s government, for example, consists of a collection of several political parties, including Hezbollah, that hold a significant degree of autonomy at local levels. As a result, Lebanon has poor public service provisions, such ashealthcare, that generally require planning and implementation at the national level to be effective. Efforts at reform have failed,complicatedby both internal political actors and foreign powers competing for influence The proposed peace deal could send Afghanistan down a similar path by institutionalizing the Taliban, allowing them to entrench themselves within the country’s government. State capacity will likely suffer as a result, while any future efforts to completely erode Taliban autonomy will only face resistance. In Lebanon, Hezbollah has made enormous strides as a legitimate political institution, and has wongreat gainsin Lebanon’s recent May 6 election; the Taliban could end up follow a similar trajectory under the offered peace deal. Even if the Taliban reject any peace deals and continue their insurgency, they can still hold the pipeline hostage to force further financial compensation from TAPI’s stakeholders.
The Taliban are central not only to Afghanistan’s prospects at peace and development, but to India-Pakistan relations as well. Pakistan fears a pro-India Afghanistan as it would become surrounded by Indian influence; Pakistanviewsan unstable Afghanistan as a preferred alternative and has thus supported the Taliban to further its interests. Should the Taliban become legitimized, Pakistan will have a more direct channel through which to influence politics in Afghanistan. As a result, the Pakistan-India rivalry will not disappear in Afghanistan, but rather evolve into a diplomatic battlefield. While fractured, Afghanistan will become a more significant prize in the minds of Pakistan and India as peace allows the Afghan government and the Taliban to begin looking outwards. Both countries will in turn look to gain favor with major actors in Afghanistan. With a stable (if weak) Afghanistan a more important geopolitical player, the potential political situation precipitated by TAPI offers an additional point of friction between Pakistan and India that could damage relationships even further. A similar scenario will still play out should the Taliban reject peace, with the pipeline strengthening the Taliban even in war, thereby giving Pakistan a more powerful ally through which to counter the Afghan government supported by India.
The TAPI pipeline also directly heightens Afghanistan’s importance for India, as India will need to ensure the security situation in Afghanistan for the pipeline to operate. This could become problematic for the India-China relationship as the geopolitical contention between nations develops. While not a stake-holder in TAPI, China displays agrowing security interestin Afghanistan to prevent the spillover of insurgency and terrorism into its own territory, in addition to economic interests in Afghanistan’s minerals. Beijing hasincreased its military aidto Afghanistan, with somereportsof Chinese interest in establishing its own military base in the country. India has so far provided mostly economic aid to Afghanistan due to a disinclination towards military engagement but has recently increased its training support to Afghanistan’s armed forces. The TAPI pipeline will almost certainly stimulate further Indian involvement in Afghanistan, bringing India into conflict with China as it does with India and Pakistan.
Asothersargue, TAPI serves as a US-backed energy project that counters a pipeline deal between Russia and China and may fuel competition between a US-India cohort and China. With TAPI designed in part to reduce demand for Iranian energy reserves and to improve India’s energy and economic situation, the pipeline solidifies the US-India relationship. In this regard, the Russia-China pipeline mirrors TAPI. Taken together, the cultivation of these opposing relationships increases the competition and potential for conflict between US-India and Russia-China.
Despite TAPI, the fundamental disagreements between involved states remain. India and Pakistanstill dispute control over Kashmir, while India and China are rising powers competing for influence. China’s increasing strategic and economicpartnershipwith Pakistan further distances both nations from India. Within Afghanistan, the Taliban cannot be expected to withhold utilizing the pipeline to further their own aims. TAPI will provide economic benefit to Afghanistan, Pakistan, and India, but the pipeline may not bring harmony as promised. Opposed by an empowered Taliban, Afghanistan will struggle to build state capacity even if it achieves some measure of peace. A strengthened Taliban in Afghanistan consequently intensifies the jostling of power between India and Pakistan. Afghanistan’s amplified strategic importance means India-China relations could also suffer. TAPI generates a curious yet tragic conundrum, with economic gain coming at the expense of elevated regional tensions and worsening prospects for building a strong Afghan state. With the pipeline already under construction, TAPI stakeholders have already made their decision, but they should not expect the pipeline alone to produce peace. Rather, TAPI should be viewed by stakeholders as an important first-step towards further cooperative endeavors with less potential for politicization. Without eliminating the roots of competition between regional players or further consolidating economic and strategic ties, TAPI may only further fracture the region.
Photo:“TAPI-EIA”
About the Author
Sean Joyce '19 is the Section Manager for the World Section of the Brown Political Review. Sean can be reached at sean_joyce@brown.edu
SUGGESTED ARTICLES
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Name:*
Email:*
Comment:


Δ

Title: Russia Elbowing US Out Of Afghan Political Process? – OpEd – Eurasia Review
A Journal of Analysis and News

A U.S. Army AH-64 Apache helicopter from the 3rd Combat Aviation Brigade takes off from Forward Operating Base Dahlke, Afghanistan. US Army photo.
ByGeopolitical Monitor
By Shaikh Muhammad Bilal
President Vladimir Putin’s Russia is not inward looking but very much outward looking, and has clearly shown its intentions to exert in its near abroad. Near abroad is an official terminology used in military, political, and economic doctrines of the Russian state. It refers to the rightful sphere of influence of Russia in the surrounding regions which culturally and politically belonged to the Russian Empire and the Soviet Union. Afghanistan is next to Russia’s near abroad and historically is a country Russians have always tried to control, with certain parts of the Russian state establishment even considering it as an extended near abroad.
In September 2015, a meeting was held between the former leader of the Taliban, Mullah Akhtar Mansoor, and Russian President Vladimir Putin, with the agenda being potential cooperation. Putin unofficiallymetwith Mullah Akhtar Mansur at a military base in Tajikistan, and this meeting received very minimal publicity in the mainstream media. According to some reports, its purpose was to discuss bilateral cooperation in the fight against the Daesh, which is gaining influence in Afghanistan. Since then, Russia has continued expanding contacts with the Taliban in order to achieve the following objectives:
First, by forging ties with the Taliban, Russia reminds the West of the inadmissibility of ignoring Moscow’s interests when discussing plans relating to Afghanistan at the regional and international level. In January 2016, in order to advance the peace process in Afghanistan, a Quadripartite Coordination Group (QCG) was formed, which included the United States, China, Pakistan, and Afghanistan. Four participating countries held meetings concerning negotiations with the Taliban. Russia felt isolated, although the efforts of the QCG ultimately did not lead to success.
Secondly, by supporting the Taliban, the Russian political leadership seeks to strengthen the barriers which halt the spread of US andNATOinfluence in the region. Since 2001, more than 3,000 US troops have died in Afghanistan fighting against the Taliban and Al Qaeda. In addition to active participation in Middle East diplomatic processes, Moscow also intends to expand its influence beyond Central Asia, including inside Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Thirdly, Russia feels the threat posed by the influence of Daesh in Afghanistan. Since 2014, Daesh has been increasing its influence over the territory of Afghanistan, which, as the Kremlin fears, may lead to its expansion, including to the north into Central Asia and to Russia itself. The Taliban and Daesh have been fighting each other, so Russia finds it necessary to extend a helping hand to the Taliban.
In December 2017, the Russian Foreign Ministry publically announced that Moscow was exchanging intelligence information with the Taliban in the framework of military operations against the Daesh. The experience of Russia’s regional cooperation with Iran and Turkey in theSyrian civil war, which brought some success, suggests that Moscow can try to apply this approach in Afghanistan, involving Iran in joint actions.
Fourth, another headache for Moscow is Afghan opium. Afghanistan supplies 90 percent of the total illegaldrugsin the world, which are mainly produced in the territories controlled by the Taliban. Drug producers in Afghanistan look at Russia as one of the largest markets in the world. Every year, the illegal use of narcoticdrugskills over 70,000 people in Russia. Thus, the leadership in Moscow believes that in the fight againstdrugs, the Taliban makes a better partner than the national unity government of Afghanistan.
Russian support of the Taliban will have numerous consequences for the future of Afghanistan. It will weaken the authority of the central government in Kabul, which as a result will lead to the creation of the same conditions that fed the Syria conflict. However, while in Syria Russia supports the government of President Bashar al-Assad, in Afghanistan it’s supporting the Taliban, and thus Moscow will limit the power of the US-sponsored government in Kabul.
There is also a larger goal of achieving international consensus, and in doing so marginalizing the U.S. from conflict resolution processes in Afghanistan. This is one more incentive for Moscow’s ties with the Taliban. Achieving an international consensus on Moscow’s strategy of selective interaction with the Taliban will strengthen Russia’s international status as a mediator in conflict resolution at the expense of the U.S. Since December 2016, Russia has been holding regular diplomatic negotiations to resolve the political crisis in Afghanistan. Among other things, these talks call for moderate Taliban groups to participate in peace talks with the Afghan government.
The U.S. refuses to participate in these negotiations because of its reluctance to maintain diplomatic relations with the Taliban. However, the expansion of these negotiations from the tripartite summit of Russia, China, and Pakistan in December 2016 to the forum of 11 states in April 2017 with the participation of representatives of Central Asian countries, Iran, India and Afghanistan shows that the selective strategy of cooperation developed by Moscow with the Taliban movement has weight and has found recognition from regional partners.
European leaders are generally reluctant to agree to a diplomatic dialogue with the Taliban, but pro-Russia Afghan politicians pay attention to the relationship between the strategies for engagement with the Taliban, which some European countries actually adhere to. Former pro-Russia President of Afghanistan Hamid Karzai said in April 2017 that Norway and Germany had been negotiating with the Taliban for many years. For him, the West’s criticism of Russia’s relations with the Taliban is a manifestation of double standards.
The precedent already exists. Since the U.S. conducted secret talks with the Taliban in 2012, Russian politicians believe that, given international pressures and in the absence of active military operations in Afghanistan, Washington can now return to an engagement strategy in the Trump presidency, much like his predecessor Obama.
If the United States follows the example of Russia and recognizes the need to maintain diplomatic relations with the Taliban, then the international community’s representation of Russia as a great power will increase significantly. Moscow’s response to international crises, such as those involving Syria, Afghanistan, and North Korea, is aimed at presenting Russia as a counterweight to the United States. This indicates that in the pursuit of this status, the success or failure of Moscow’s interaction with the Taliban has the potential to carry serious consequences.
In short, Russia’s selective interaction with moderate members of the Taliban movement casts doubt on US negotiating strategies surrounding this Afghan militant organization. And Russian politicians, promoting a peaceful settlement in Afghanistan and gaining international recognition through their diplomatic interaction with the Taliban, can help strengthen the status of Russia again as a great power and an indispensable intermediary in resolving crisis situations and conflicts around the world.

The opinions, beliefs, and viewpoints expressed by the authors are theirs alone and don’t reflect any official position ofGeopoliticalmonitor.com.
Geopoliticalmonitor.com is an open-source intelligence collection and forecasting service, providing research, analysis and up to date coverage on situations and events that have a substantive impact on political, military and economic affairs.
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Name*
Email*
Website

What is the MENA region? MENA is the acronym for “Middle East and North Africa”, regularly used in academic and
This article is just plain wrong! The author may have a professorship, but his academic rigor is very poor. To…
there are legitimate reasons for USA to dissolve. the country is divided and bankrupt whoever wins the next election will…
THIS IS ONE OF THE WORSE PIECES EVER POSTED ON EURASIA REVIEW, MOST RACIST, ANTI-SEMITIC ANTI-UKRAINIAN RANT. WHY DID ER…
This is either the most self-deceiving rose-tinted spectacles view of Russia I have ever read, or a despicable set of…
It is wishful thinking to expect Gwadar Port to be a game changer for Pakistan. It has not materialized so…

Title: 
Car bomb kills 3 including Taliban commander in E. Afghanistan - Xinhua | English.news.cn

JALALABAD, Afghanistan, July 5 (Xinhua) -- Three militants including a Taliban senior commander were killed and four others injured in a car bomb in Afghanistan's eastern Nangarhar province on Thursday, provincial government spokesman Attaullah Khogiani said.
"It was a car bomb and the explosive device, planted on the car, exploded in Nokar Khil area of Khogiani district at around 9:30 a.m. local time, killing three rebels including notorious Taliban commander Mullah Hakimullah and injuring four civilians," Khogiani told reporters.
Without providing more details, the official said that an investigation was underway.
Taliban militants were yet to make comments on the report.
Its rival group, the hardliner Islamic State (IS) outfit which often clashes with the Taliban and government forces, has not commented on the attack.
JALALABAD, Afghanistan, July 5 (Xinhua) -- Three militants including a Taliban senior commander were killed and four others injured in a car bomb in Afghanistan's eastern Nangarhar province on Thursday, provincial government spokesman Attaullah Khogiani said.
"It was a car bomb and the explosive device, planted on the car, exploded in Nokar Khil area of Khogiani district at around 9:30 a.m. local time, killing three rebels including notorious Taliban commander Mullah Hakimullah and injuring four civilians," Khogiani told reporters.
Without providing more details, the official said that an investigation was underway.
Taliban militants were yet to make comments on the report.
Its rival group, the hardliner Islamic State (IS) outfit which often clashes with the Taliban and government forces, has not commented on the attack.
Copyright © 2000 - 2018 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.

Title: 
2 commanders among 8 Taliban in N. Afghanistan - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KUNDUZ, Afghanistan, July 2 (Xinhua) -- A total of eight militants including two Taliban commanders have been killed in Chardara district of Afghanistan's northern Kunduz province as clash erupted between the armed insurgents and security forces on Sunday, provincial police spokesman Inamudin Rahmani said Monday.
Two local Taliban commanders namely Shir Alam and Ajmal are among those killed in the fighting and four more militants have been injured, the official asserted.
Taliban militants haven't commented.
KUNDUZ, Afghanistan, July 2 (Xinhua) -- A total of eight militants including two Taliban commanders have been killed in Chardara district of Afghanistan's northern Kunduz province as clash erupted between the armed insurgents and security forces on Sunday, provincial police spokesman Inamudin Rahmani said Monday.
Two local Taliban commanders namely Shir Alam and Ajmal are among those killed in the fighting and four more militants have been injured, the official asserted.
Taliban militants haven't commented.
Copyright © 2000 - 2018 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.

Title: Afghan Taliban denounce US-sponsored scholars conferences - Daily Times
Daily Times
Your right to knowTuesday, September 24, 2024
Pakistan

Tahir Khan
July 7, 2018

ISLAMABAD:Afghan Taliban on Friday ruled out negotiations with the “powerless” Kabul administration and condemned what they called US-sponsored conferences of religious scholars.
The Taliban issued the statement ahead of an international conference Saudi Arabia will host in collaboration of the Organization of the Islamic Cooperation (OIC) that is likely to issue a declaration against the Taliban war in Afghanistan.
Saudis had planned to host the conference in 2016 but had to postpone it after the Taliban rejected the moot as “intelligence ploy”. The Kingdom has invited scholars from many countries including Pakistan.
“The Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan considers this process under the title of conferences of the Islamic Scholars as an absolute anti-Islamic US process whereas its idea, logistical support and implementation is directly led by the US itself,” a Taliban statement said.
The “International Conference of Muslim Scholars on Peace and Stability in Afghanistan” will be held in Jeddah and Makkah on July 10 and 11 respectively, the state-owned Saudi Press Agency has reported.
The SPA said the gathering of religious scholars aims at fostering efforts to establish peace and stability in Afghanistan as well as to denounce terrorism and violent extremism in all its forms and manifestations based on the teachings of the religion of Islam.
Taliban said the US wants through these conferences to find justification for their “military occupation, legitimize their stooge Kabul Administration and thus weaken the Jihadic resistance of Afghan Muslim nation being put up against them.”
The Taliban referred to the March 18 statement of the American top commander in Afghanistan Gen Nicholson in which he had stated that the US has a plan to apply different pressures on Taliban this year that include “a combination of religious, social, diplomatic and military pressure on the Taliban”.
Nicholson had further stated that religious pressure means that conferences under the name of religious scholars from Afghanistan, Pakistan and other Islamic countries will be held and they will issue a “Fatwa” (Islamic verdict) against the Taliban in these conferences to undermine legitimacy of their struggle from a religious perspective.
The Taliban urged religious scholars to reject these conferences which are a “scheme of the invaders” as they could be used for issuance of an edict to “de-legitimize current Jihad.”
The Taliban disagreed with the notion of some scholars who argue that they are participating in such gatherings to speak the truth and defend the cause of the Taliban and said the organizers and the media will distort their assertions and utilize it for their own interests.
Taliban regretted that the scholars only blame them and do not utter a single word against “corrupt and infidel invaders nor consider their open brutal aggression as illegitimate hence it clearly shows that they are in the service of invaders.”
“On the basis of Shariah, it is impermissible for Muslims especially religious scholars to come to the aid and rescue of the brutal enemy and wounded dragon trapped in Afghanistan. Because helping the American tyrant is a great sin and deviation from Islam, May Allah, the Almighty protect our religious scholars from it,” the statement said.
They urged the religious scholars of Afghanistan and the Muslim world to cooperate and help the Taliban instead of assisting and participating in the conferences of the “secret service of the enemy.”
Published in Daily Times, July 7th2018.




More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category

HomeLead StoriesLatest NewsEditor’s Picks
CultureLife & StyleFeaturedVideos
EditorialsOP-EDSCommentaryAdvertise
CartoonsLettersBlogsPrivacy Policy
ContactCompany’s FinancialsInvestor InformationTerms & Conditions
FacebookTwitterInstagramYoutube
Copyright © 2024 Daily TimesWebsite Developed ByDaily Times Developers

Title: Turning east: the rise of Islamic State's Khorasan Province
Since the beginning of 2018, Afghanistan has been shaken by multiple political crises, from provincial officials refusing to step down, Taliban attempts to endanger major provincial cities and expand from rural areas in the never ending war, and a crisis of legitimacy coming from former warlords like Gulbuddin Hekmatyar and Vice President General Abdul Rashid Dostum, who has now returned to Afghanistan after spending 14 months in self-imposed exile in Turkey. However, it is still the most dangerous terrorist group in the region that frequently occupies headlines and demands the attention of major political players in the region – the Islamic State Khorasan Province.
Islamic State first appeared in Afghanistan in 2014, when the first militant networkpledged bayat, or allegianceto the group originally from Iraq. The appearance of these groups was a direct consequence of the proclamation of the so-called Caliphate on June 29, 2014, first by its spokesperson Mohammad al-Adnani in his “This Is The Promise of Allah” speech, released by al-Hayat Media Center, and confirmed a few days later on July 5, with ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadigiving his first sermonas the supposed “Caliph” in the Iraqi city of Mosul.
The Afghan/Pakistani border has been a safe haven for multiple groups that have fought successive Afghan governments since before the Soviet invasion in 1979. These groups have always had different ideologies,varyingfrom nationalist, through Islamist to hardcore deobandi and salafi-jihadist. The majority of Islamists, especially those of Pakistani origin, have never identified closely with the official ideology of the Taliban, which remains very pragmatic towards the societies of Afghanistan and Pakistan, and makesconcessions and allianceswith the Pakistani military in order to gain control over tribal confederations.
Diversity and a wide range of militias with loose allegiances to each other provided an excellent recruiting pool that enabled ISIS to quickly gather enough force to actively pose a threat in Afghanistan. Commanders and local emirs, dissatisfied with supposed cynicism, lack of purity in establishing sharia law and the collaboration of their superiors with the Pakistani army and Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence agency, werevulnerableto exploitation by ISIS’s creed and promises.
Before ISIS proclaimed Khorasan Province to be its Afghan/Pakistani wing, extending its claims to the historic Khorasan (Central Asia) region, an important part of the Pakistani Taliban (Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan) had pledged an oath of allegiance to ISIS, significantlyincreasingalready existing recruitment of new ISIS networks, mainly among already existing salafi groups like Lashkar-e-Jangvi, Jundullah and various TTIP subordinates.
Their leader – and, after Adnani’s acceptance of bayyah on January 26, 2015, the wali of Wilayat Khorasan – was Hafez Saeed Khaan, who could immediately operate a large militant network within the structures created at the end of 2014 and the beginning of 2015.
The very first reactions of the U.S. and Pakistani militaries were to remove the threat posed by the unification of salafists into the Central Asian wing of the Islamic State. Despite these two countries’ attempts, ISKP was able togain footholdsin parts of Afghanistan, including in the Taliban’s southern stronghold Helmand, provinces in the north like Jowzjan, and Sar-e-Pul and Farah in the west.
The Taliban’s response to the new threat was relatively swift with the launch of major operations in the summer and fall of 2015, causing ISKP torelocatemuch of its manpower to safer and easier to defend mountainous provinces bordering Pakistan, mainly Kunar, Paktia and Nangarhar.
ISKP’s military threat to the Taliban was bolstered by further pledges of allegiances, including the majority of thepowerfulIslamic Movement of Uzbekistan, which prevented the collapse of ISIS structures existing in the north of Afghanistan.
Unable to completely prevent ISKP’s movement, the Taliban decided to use social media networks such as Facebook and Telegram to spread anti-ISKP messages and counter the group’s influence. Such attempts included direct conversations on Facebook forums and sharing so-called “analysis of Daesh movement in Afghanistan,” essentially a giantquasi-scholarly documentthat describes the Islamic State’s ideology and traces its violent roots to Iraq.
The Taliban’s media wing Al-Emara has released a few videos directly targeting ISKP, such as one in 2017 that depicts an alleged defector. In the video, ISKP deputy Abdul Razzaq isforced to confessto the audience his reasons for changing sides, explaining the “criminal ideology of Daesh” and portraying the chaos in which ISKP allegedly remains.
ISKP on the other hand has been heavily involved in applying their understanding of Islam from the beginning of the Afghan branch’s existence, carefully teaching andradicalizingyouth as a part of their global “Cubs of Khilafah” strategy.
Islamic State operations inside urban areas of Afghanistan and Pakistan have coincided with its slowly shrinking territory in Iraq and Syria. The number of ISKP attacks rose steadily in 2016 to a peak at the end of 2017, with Kabulgetting hitseven times in just three months, suggesting that their networks inside the major cities have been on the rise.
This trend has continued in 2018, with multiple ISKP attackstargetingthe Afghan and Pakistani militaries, democratic institutions and gatherings, and various minority religious sects such asHazaras, Sufis and more recently Hindus and Sikhs in Jalalabad.
One of the most interesting aspects of the ISIS recruitment effort is the role of Kurdish jihadists. One of militants involved in adeadly April 29 attack in Kabulwas identified by ISKP as Qaqa al-Kurdi, a 29-year-old man of Kurdish origin. Most jihadists ISKP transfers to the Afghan capital are called “Khorasani” or by names more closely identifying their ethnic background (Tajiki, Uzbeki) or Pakistani tribal agencies in majority Pashtun regions (Bajouri). TheKurdish rolein Islamic State Central has always been significant, with multiple video recordings of Kurdish-speaking jihadists inviting others to join ISIS.
In a June 2018 article for Al-Monitor, Fazel HawramyidentifiedQaqa al-Kurdi, the Kurdish jihadi from the April attack in Kabul, as originally hailing from the west of Iran, revealing the growing problem of extremism in this region.
The potential ISKP possesses in the north of Afghanistan also makes it more likely for Kurdish extremists from Iranian Kurdistan to join the Afghan wing of Islamic State.
One the few ISKP success in gaining territorial control since 2015 was in the spring of 2017 when the Taliban and ISKP conducteda rare joint operationin the north. During the day-long attack on June 20, Qari Hekmat (an influential commander under General Dostum before he joined the Taliban and later ISKP), lead the charge to oust Afghan forces from Darzab and Qush Tepa districts.
After having achieved the win, ISKP immediately turned against the Taliban, this time almost completely kicking out the largest insurgent force in Afghanistan of Jowzjan province, and therebycontrolling more landin the north than in the eastern provinces of the country. This has brought the attention of regional countries such as Tajikistan and Russia who feel that ISKP having a nearby access point to their territories would pose a direct threat.
Since then Russia has repeatedly made use of ISKP’s presence near the former USSR republics in its propaganda in order to frequently undermine the U.S. role in Afghanistan and blame NATO for Afghan instability that gives ISIS the opportunity to grow, at times going as far as toinsinuatedirect U.S. direct support to ISKP. It was followed by alleged Russian aid for Taliban fighters, with various outlets accusing Russia of fueling the war, and Russian Foreign Ministry officialsinflatingthe strength of ISKP’s active fighting force to be over 10,000 militants.
The U.S. was aware of the ISKP threat from the north while U.S. Special Forces were fighting against Islamic State terrorists in the eastern provinces. Despite that, General John Nicholson, the U.S. and NATO commander in Afghanistan, seems to have embraced a pragmatic approach towards the Jowzjan-based ISKP, publiclyleaving this threatfor the Taliban to fight. The group has been involved in multiple attempts to regain control over parts of Faryab, Jowzjan and Sar-e-Pul which are now influenced by ISKP.
It was ISIS Central propaganda that finally forced Americans to take a closer look to what has been happening in the north. In March 2018, ISKP’s media centerreleased a videotitled “Allah’s land is wide.”
Among scenes of Tora Bora and a few battles in the Khogyani district of Nangarhar province, the video was the first time ISKP recorded their direct rule over territories in Jowzjan, portraying its utopian view of the Caliphate that remains alive in this part of Afghanistan.
In some ways it was a groundbreaking moment, because ISIS Central constantly needs successes to boost its propaganda after having lost all of its territory in Iraq and remaining in control of only small pockets of land in Syria.
Not only did the video show hundreds of jihadists and local inhabitants of various descent pledging allegiance to ISIS leader Baghdadi, they also included dozens of youths – some as young as 7-15 years old – trained in military fashion. That coincided with press reports about ISIS recruiting as many as 300 youths at the end of 2017 andforcing them to jointhe ISKP army. ISKP militants in the video encouraged jihadists to migrate to Afghanistan and actively support the Central Asian wing of Islamic State.
This call was followed by alleged response from regional militants, who startedappearingen masse in Jowzjan.
The American response to the danger revealed by ISKP was quick. After a brief period of surveillance, U.S. forces conducted a two-month long surge in March and April,targeting and killing most of ISKP’s local leadership, including Qari Hekmatand his deputy, using drones and Special Forces in the most strategically important places under ISKP influence: Faryab, Sar-e-Pul and Jowzjan.
This however was not followed by the recapturing of the areas by the Afghan army or militias loyal to General Dostum. Since then, the U.S. has been mainly occupied with fighting ISKP in Kunar and Nangarhar,preventingthe jihadists from returning to their former territories and capturing strongholds from which ISKP had been able to direct and facilitate major attacks in Kabul and Jalalabad.
Taking control over territory in parts of eastern Nangarhar province and of Jowzjan enabled ISKP to gain practical benefits from their local economies and the assurance of a stable revenue source needed to supply its budget and maintain salaries for its fighters.
Using various sources of illicit income – such as collecting of taxes from local inhabitants, charging trucks to travel in strategic smuggling routes, and extortion through kidnapping for ransom – in order to expand and stabilize insurgent activities is an ordinary way for any kind of anti-government militia to survive.
A separate chapter in the Afghan conflict is the  exploitation of a rich and widely-located mines of any kind, including large, untapped rare-earth mineral deposits. Every major actor has at some point in the war thought of using Afghanistan’s vast mineral resources to sustain operations.
U.S. President Donald Trump, just as his predecessors Barack Obama and George W. Bush, has considered capitalizing on these minerals, and hasinvestigated the possibilityof reallocating part of the U.S. military operational cost on Afghanistan’s natural resources, thereby also preventing his main rival China from becoming a major partner of the Kabul government in administering this increasingly important wing of the Afghan economy.
The Taliban and ISKP budgets have also partly relied on the mining industry. Mining has become a significant portion of ISKP’s income during its rule over most of the Nangarhar districts of Deh Bala, Kot, Achin and more recently Khogyani. In the May 2018report“At any price we will take the mines” published by Global Witness, the authors investigate the use of mining networks by ISKP and the Taliban, especially talc, chromite and marble.
Each of these resources had been exported to Pakistan, where local industries converted them into the final products for the European and American economies, mainly as building materials, for decorational purposes, or for social needs, such as baby powder.
Through an economic chain linking Afghanistan, Pakistan and the West, NATO countries involved in theResolute Supportmission have been unintentionally sustaining the terrorists’ budget, and in a similar way European markets support the Taliban’s drug industry, the report found.
Emphasizing the difficulty of conducting such estimates, the authors of the Global Witness report suspect ISKP of having earned at least $1 million annually from the mining industry in Nangarhar alone. This should be significantly decreasing as U.S. and Afghan National Army forces slowly gain ground against the terrorist group in their strongholds in Nangarhar’s Mommand valley and in Kunar province.
The exploitation of local economies which are vulnerable in the uncertain military situation has been actively supported by direct financial assistance from ISIS Central. While the exact sum can not be fully identified, taking into consideration the history of ISIS Central’s financial support for other affiliates in East Asia, Sinai and Libya, and designations by the U.S. Department of Treasury, it is certain that such money transfers must haveexceededa few million dollars.
An August 2017 United Nations Security Council report confirms the connection between ISKP’s budget and the direct flow of cash from Iraq and Syria, claiming that ISKP would beunable to pursueits operations without money from ISIS Central, even amid the ISIS territorial collapse in the Middle East.
The same report alleges that ISIS Central advised ISKP to find new sources of revenue in order to become more independent from the mother organisation. In the February 2017 issue of CTC Sentinel, General Nicholson confirmed that ISIS Central had been subsidizing its Central Asia wing and possesses an essential organizational and strategicinfluencewithin the Khorasan branch.
In the last year, well-known researchers such as Antonio Giustozzi have been writing about aninternal splitbetween the ISIS faction residing in the north of Afghanistan and the other along the Afghan/Pakistani border.
Yet it is very doubtful that the said 2017 split indeed took place. Firstly, it remains highly unlikely that any ISKP influential figure approved by ISIS Central would be at any point connected to the Pakistani intelligence agency ISI. Such suspected spies are frequentlyexecutedby ISIS, and the collaboration of the Afghan Taliban and parts of TTIP with the ISI was one of the reasons most hardcore salafi militants in the region joined ISKP – because they see Pakistan as a foe.
Secondly, collaboration with the ISI would eliminate the threat of jihadists conducting large-scale attacks on the territory of Pakistan, especially – as Giustozzi alleges – as it is the ISKP wali (governor) directing Pakistani networks who would be the collaborator. Such assaults have not at any point stopped, as confirmed byrecent attacksin Mastung (over 150 dead) and Quetta (25 dead) targeting Pakistani elections and the military.
And finally, before Qari Hekmat’s death, Afghan authorities and Taliban fighters had frequently been able toarrestISKP envoys from the north, tasked with supplying Nangarhar-based ISKP militants with cash and equipment. In case of a real split, ISIS Central would havedirectly intervened, just as it did with its Yemeni branch.
ISIS has been marked by the important role of its virtual planners, who mostly operated in Syria and Iraq during its rule in those territories.
These planners, tasked with influencing and remotely directing attacks on foreign soil like France, the U.S., Germany and Central and Southeast Asia countries, have been properlyresearched and identified, such as Indonesia’s Bahrun Naim, who incited a failed suicide bombing in Central Java, or Rachid Kassim, a French national who joined ISIS as a foreign fighter and was later killed by a U.S. airstrike in Iraq.
Recently, mainly because of U.S. and Indian authorities’ statements, the role of ISKP in running attacks similar to ISIS Central has been in the spotlight.
While it is still mostly in ISIS Central’s hands to conduct such operations – as evidenced by recent U.S.targeted strikesin Syria that killed alleged planners attempting to hit Sweden, the U.S. and Saudi Arabia – ISKP has had its own role in planning such attacks.
In 2016, U.S. authoritiesprevented an attackin New York City that was authorized by ISIS in Pakistan and supported by an ISIS Philippines official, revealing a highly sophisticated plot by at least three different ISIS wings.
More recently, Indian intelligence nabbed an individual tasked with bombing New Delhi who had received support from Afghanistan and the United Arab Emirates. Intelligence sources told the Indian Express in July that ISKP played animportant rolein planning the thwarted attack on Indian soil.
These cases might lead to ISIS Central outsourcing some operations to its other branches, just as al-Qaeda Central Command did with its Yemeni wing, AQAP. However, with the much improved ability of U.S. and Afghan forces to prevent ISKP from gaining new strongholds in the country, and the Talibanintensifying its effortsto eradicate ISKP in Jowzjan province, ISKP’s focus of operations is more likely to stay local in order to survive and gain new recruits to replenish the ranks.
The Defense Post aims to publish a wide range of high-quality opinion and analysis from a diverse array of people – do you want to send us yours?Click here to submit an Op-Ed

Title: Taliban commander among dead in suspected ISKP attack in northern Afghanistan
Suspected Islamic State militants attacked Taliban fighters attending a funeral in northern Afghanistan and killed at least 15 in the latest violence between the rival groups, officials said.
Another five Taliban were wounded in the attack on a house in Sayad district in Sar-e Pol province on Tuesday, July 17, the provincial police chief Abdul Qayum Baqizoi told AFP.
A Taliban commander was among the dead, Baqizoi added.
The attackers, who were armed with guns and grenades, fled the area.
The Sar-e Pol governor’s spokesperson Zabiullah Amani confirmed the death toll.
“Daesh and Taliban have been fighting each other for more than two months in [neighboring] Jowzjan and Sar-e Pol, killing hundreds on both sides,” Amani said, using an Arabic acronym for ISIS.
Police Chief Abdul Qayyom Baqizoy said 15 civilians and seven Taliban were killed in the bombing, which happened around 2:30 p.m. local time (1000 GMT) in the Ajeram village, Pajhwok Afghan Newsreported.
The Taliban has not commented on the attack. Islamic State – Khorasan Province did not immediately claim responsibility.
ISKP first emerged in Afghanistan in 2014, overrunning large parts of the eastern provinces of Nangarhar and Kunar near the Pakistan border, where it engaged in a turf war with the Taliban.
The group has since expanded north and has been battling the Taliban as well as Afghan and U.S. forces.
While the Taliban is Afghanistan’s largest militant group, ISIS has a small but potent presence in the country and has repeatedly demonstrated an ability tocarry out devastating attacks in urban areas, including Kabul.
An ISKP car bomb attack killed at least five police officers in an attack on the interior ministry headquarters in May during the Islamic holy month of Ramadan. Less than two weeks later, ISKP claimed responsibility for asuicide attack on the headquarters of the Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Developmentas employees were leaving their offices early for the holiday.
Kabul accounted for 16 percent of all civilian casualties last year, when 1,831 civilians were killed or wounded nationwide, according to the United Nations.
With reporting from AFP
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Name*
Email*
Website


Δ
The Defense Post aims to publish a wide range of high-quality opinion and analysis from a diverse array of people – do you want to send us yours?Click here to submit an Op-Ed

Title: Afghanistan’s Ceasefires Expire; Attacks on Civilians Resume - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
Suicide Bombing Kills Sikh Parliamentary Candidate
Patricia GossmanSenior Researcher, Afghanistan
The two headlines could not have been more jarring.
“Civilian casualties drop by half for the month of June,” the nongovernmental Afghan Civilian Protection Advocacy Groupreportedon July 1, a decline attributed to overlapping unilateral ceasefires by the Afghan government and the Taliban.
“Suicide Attack Targets Sikhs in Jalalabad,” screamed a headline just hours later, a story that documented a devastating suicide bombing that killed 19 people. Among the dead was Avtar Singh, the only Sikh candidate for the October parliamentary elections, another prominent Sikh civil society activist, and other Hindus and Sikhs from among Afghanistan’s smallest minority communities.
Although Sikhs and Hindus have lived in Afghanistan for centuries, the vast majority have left in recent decades, fleeing endless armed conflict andrising intolerance. Their communities shrunk fromabout 220,000 in the 1980s to 15,000 after 1992. As of 2018 only about 1,350 remained in Afghanistan. "It is over for us, we are finished, they have massacred us,” the relative of one of those killedsaid.
The Jalalabad attack was the latest in what has already been a bloody runup to the elections. Both the Taliban and the Islamic State of Khorason Province (ISKP) have attacked voter registration centers. The Taliban havethreatened and abducted election staff membersin Ghor and Jawzjan. In the bloodiest attack, claimed by the ISKP, suicide bomberskilled at least 60and injured 138 at a voter registration center in Kabul.
The Taliban and government ceasefires only overlapped for three days, during which unprecedented scenes of Afghan soldiers and police and Taliban members taking selfies and sharing in Eid prayers and feasting together circulated widely in the media. But the unexpected camaraderie set off alarm bells for the Taliban leadership, who feared losing control of their fighters, andhastily called them backto their proverbial trenches as soon as the three days were up.
For Afghans, the brief ceasefire lull may seem like a mirage now. With less than four months to go before the elections, Afghan civilians can be expected to pay the highest price.
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 21 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: No title found


Title: 
            Murder and mayhem in Mastung
          
HK
The murder and mayhem in Mastung claimed countless lives injuring over 200 in Balochistan
COMMENTS (1)
Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive.
For more information, please see ourComments FAQ
Donald Trump lashes out at Bill Maher, Stephanie Ruhle and Bret Stephens after ‘Real Time’ debate about Kamala Harris.
Trump introduces official Trump coins, a collectible silver medallion, featuring his profile and the White House.
Kick streamer N3on faces accusations of transphobia following a TwitchCon confrontation with a transgender streamer.
TikTok star Kelsi Bergmann confirms she is alive following viral rumors of her death.
Booby Trapped for a Wider Conflict
Constitution & monuments of incompetence
The house always wins
Diamer-Bhasha dam: a solution to our water, energy woes
Judicial reforms package: the cat is out of the bag
Local governance, SDGs and climate resilience in Pakistan
Booby Trapped for a Wider Conflict
The house always wins
Diamer-Bhasha dam: a solution to our water, energy woes
Judicial reforms package: the cat is out of the bag
A view from everywhere!
The unfolding human tragedy in Afghanistan
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
redistributed or derived from. Unless otherwise stated, all content is
copyrighted © 2024 The Express Tribune.

Title: Afghanistan’s Ceasefires Expire; Attacks on Civilians Resume | Human Rights Watch
Suicide Bombing Kills Sikh Parliamentary Candidate
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
The two headlines could not have been more jarring.
“Casualties drop by half last month compared to June 2017,” the nongovernmental Afghan Civilian Protection Advocacy Groupreportedon July 1, a decline attributed to overlapping unilateral ceasefires by the Afghan government and the Taliban.
“Suicide Attack Targets Sikhs in Jalalabad,” screamed aheadlinejust hours later, a story that documented a devastating suicide bombing that killed 19 people. Among the dead was Avtar Singh, the only Sikh candidate for the October parliamentary elections; another prominent Sikh civil society activist; and other Hindus and Sikhs from among Afghanistan’s smallest minority communities.
Although Sikhs and Hindus have lived in Afghanistan for centuries, the vast majority have left in recent decades, fleeing endless armed conflict andrising intolerance. Their communities shrunk fromabout 220,000 in the 1980s to 15,000 after 1992. As of 2018, only about 1,350 remain in Afghanistan. “It is over for us, we are finished, they have massacred us,” the relative of one of those killedsaid.
The Jalalabad attack was the latest in what has already been a bloody run-up to the elections. Both the Taliban and the Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP) have attacked voter registration centers. The Taliban havethreatened and abducted election staff membersin Ghor and Jawzjan. In the bloodiest attack, claimed by the ISKP, suicide bomberskilled at least 60and injured 138 at a voter registration center in Kabul.
The Taliban and government ceasefires only overlapped for three days, during which unprecedented scenes of Afghan soldiers and police and Taliban members taking selfies, sharing in Eid prayers, and feasting together circulated widely in the media. But the unexpected camaraderie set off alarm bells for the Taliban leadership, who feared losing control of their fighters, andhastily called them backto their proverbial trenches as soon as the three days were up.
For Afghans, the brief ceasefire lull may seem like a mirage now. With less than four months to go before the elections, Afghan civilians can be expected to pay the highest price.
Discrimination and Other Abuses Against Papuans in Indonesia
Abusive Forced Evictions in Pakistan
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
Human Rights Watch defends the rights of people in close to 100 countries worldwide, spotlighting abuses and bringing perpetrators to justice
Get updates on human rights issues from around the globe. Join our movement today.
Every weekday, get the world’s top human rights news, explored and explained by Andrew Stroehlein.
Human Rights Watchis a 501(C)(3) nonprofit registered in the US under EIN: 13-2875808

Title: No title found


Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:37Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: 10 Killed as Suicide Bombers Raid Afghan Education Office - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
Last Updated: July 11, 2018 8:48 AMAyaz Gul
ISLAMABAD — A pair of heavily armed suicide bombers Wednesday stormed an education department office in eastern Afghanistan and killed at least 11 people.
Witnesses said the assailants fired indiscriminately at staffers inside the building in Jalalabad, capital of the eastern Nangarhar province.
A provincial government spokesman, Attaullah Khogyani, told VOA the attack injured 17 people.
He said shortly after the siege began, Afghan security forces surrounded the compound and rescued 20 people before the nearly four hours long assault ended. There were no immediate claims of responsibility.
Tuesday, a suicide bomber blew himself up, killing 12 people at a security check post in Jalalabad.
Islamic State’s Afghan branch, Khorasan Province or ISKP, claimed responsibility for the attack and also released a picture of its purported suicide bomber.
The Middle East-based terrorist group also took credit for the July 1 suicide bombing in high-security zone of Jalalabad that killed 19 people, mostly members of the minority Sikh community.
Nangarhar is located next to the country’s porous border with Pakistan and several of its southern districts are referred to as ISKP strongholds from where they plot and stage terrorist attacks elsewhere in Afghanistan.
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: India must watch out for Afghan pitfalls - The Sunday Guardian Live

A recent suicide attack in Afghanistan’s Jalalabad killed at least 17 Hindus and Sikhs belonging to that country. Among those killed was Avtar Singh Khalsa, the only Sikh candidate for Afghanistan’s parliamentary elections to be held in October. The Sikh community now numbers fewer than 300 families in Afghanistan, which was home to more than 250,000 Sikhs and Hindus before the 1990s. It is believed that Guru Nanak once visited Jalalabad.
The attack came a day after President Ashraf Ghani ordered the security forces to resume their operations against the Taliban following the end of the government’s 18-day ceasefire, and even as US envoy Alice Wells was scheduled to visit Kabul as part of efforts to create pressure on the Taliban to engage in peace talks.
According to the media, it was ISIS that claimed the attack. So the questions that arise are: One, is Afghanistan the third home for the ISIS after Syria and Iraq? Two, what is the difference between Taliban and ISIS? Three, what will be India’s best option in this complex scenario?
US reports say that more than 700 ISIS fighters are present in Afghanistan, while the Russians put the number to 10,000. Whatever be it, there is no denying that ISIS is growing increasingly stronger in Afghanistan. Since 2014, when the US was supposed to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan, ISIS’ presence has increased manifold. Many disgruntled Taliban terrorists have shifted their allegiance to the ISIS. In fact, even some ISIS fighters fleeing the battlefields of Syria and Iraq are finding their way to Afghanistan. As a popular ISIS video in Afghanistan proclaims, “O you, Muslims in every corner of the world, immigrate to Khorasan, if you are incapable of immigrating to Iraq and Syria, come to Khorasan.” Khorasan refers to a historic region which includes parts of modern day Afghanistan, Pakistan and some neighbouring countries.
There is convergence of interests between the ISIS and the Taliban in supporting the Pakistan army’s India misadventures. In fact, there is speculation that the attack was actually perpetrated by the Taliban under the patronage of Pakistan’s Inter-Service Intelligence (ISI). A month ago, a prominent Sikh religious leader, Charanjit Singh Sagar was shot dead in Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.
The ISIS in Afghanistan may have embraced the label and may swear allegiance to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, but is not controlled by the ISIS in Syria or Iraq. Instead the ISIS groups here are mostly local and familiar with the difficult terrain. These groups operate mostly in Afghanistan’s Nangarhar province near the Pakistan border. ISIS is even using Afghanistan and Pakistan as a recruiting ground, trying to find fighters who will travel to Syria and Iraq.
Afghanistan ISIS’ ideologies and goals are different from that of the Taliban’s. The hostility that ISIS bears towards the Taliban stems from the fact that the Taliban draw their “legitimacy” not from a universal Islamic creed, but from narrow ethnic and nationalistic interests. The ISIS, on the other hand, is trying to establish a Caliphate encompassing the entire Ummah (Muslim community). While the Taliban seeks to establish an Afghan state that they claim is ruled by Islamic law. The groups are also competing for members and resources. Both rely on money from the heroin trade to fund their operations.
The US and Russia are divided on ISIS in Afghanistan. Russia believes that ISIS presence has increased in northern and eastern Afghanistan. Russian policymakers emphasise on the ISIS threat to unite anti-western nationalists of the world. In fact, Russia is using the ISIS threat in Afghanistan to establish mutually beneficial alliances with its Central Asian partners. Russian officials argue that US policymakers are complacent about ISIS’ potential to threaten regional stability.
As for India, it is a major country in reshaping Afghanistan’s economy and military. More than 150 Indian engineers and technical experts are working in infrastructural projects in Afghanistan. In 2017, India and Afghanistan inaugurated two air corridors to boost connectivity, which has resulted in a significant increase in trade volumes. As part of the next generation “New Development Partnership”, India is implementing 116 new high impact development projects in 31 Afghan provinces and is training Afghan security personnel. India is a major trading partner for Afghanistan. India is also the biggest donor to Afghanistan.
Pakistan is trying its best to counter India’s initiatives. Pakistan has been a key route for US supplies into Afghanistan. But then, according to US and Afghan officials, Pakistan is also a route for terror funding and a safe haven for terrorist groups operating in Afghanistan, particularly the Haqqani Network. Pakistan’s Afghan policy is shaped by its relations with India. Islamabad fears an India-dominated Afghanistan will leave Pakistan encircled and vulnerable in any potential conflict. Islamabad seeks a weak government in Kabul, dominated by a Pak-supporting Taliban, so that it can maintain its “strategic depth” against any Indian invasion. So it guarantees a safe haven to the terrorist groups that it supports. In the last few years, China has increased its footprints in Afghanistan along with its partner Pakistan. Afghanistan shares a border with China. The Chinese foreign ministry has said that “the international community should fully recognise Pakistan’s anti-terrorism efforts” and appreciate its “important contributions to safeguarding regional and global peace and stability”. Beijing is also investing upwards of $46 billion into the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), as part of its Belt and Road Initiative, where China says, Afghanistan will be a major player.
The situation, thus, is precarious. Pakistan supported terrorist networks in Afghanistan are generating a lot of hate against India. The China-Pakistan venture in Afghanistan and the US-Russia divide present a challenge for India. India’s development projects there are being targeted, its people are being killed. Almost half of Afghanistan is not under Kabul’s control, but under the control of the Taliban, the ISIS and other terrorist groups. In this scenario, India needs its own roadmap to venture into Afghanistan. It must collaborate independently with Russia and America on this.
Prof Satish Kumar is the head of the Department of Political Science at Central University Of Haryana.
Check out other tags:
© SUNDAY GUARDIAN LIVE 2023 | DIRECT NEWS PRIVATE LIMITED | ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.

Title: Australian soldier fighting with US Green Berets against IS in Afghanistan - ABC News

Search the news, stories & people
Personalise the news and
stay in the know
Emergency
Backstory
Newsletters
中文新闻
BERITA BAHASA INDONESIA
TOK PISIN
Politics
Topic:Government and Politics
A US special forces team sergeant returns fire during a fight in Afghanistan(Supplied: Coffee, or die Magazine)
Five years after Australia's combat operations officially ended in Afghanistan, an elite Australian soldier remains on the front line in the war-torn country, fighting Islamic State (IS) militants.
The Special Forces soldier known as "Mark" is attached to a group of elite American "Green Berets", who have been operating in eastern Afghanistan's isolated Mohmand Valley, near the Pakistan border.
His dangerous "advise and assist" mission in the remote Nangarhar province has been documented by journalist Marty Skovlund Jr, who also once served as an American Special Operations soldier.
A US Special Forces soldier fires a mortar round(Supplied: Coffee, or Die Magazine)
Earlier this year, Skovlund spent several days embedded at Combat Outpost (COP) Blackfish, as US Special Forces helped Afghan Commandos fight ISIS-K, a local offshoot of the brutal IS terrorist organisation which rose to prominence in Iraq and Afghanistan.
In an article just published in the American "Coffee, or Die" Magazine, Skovlund revealed the presence of the sole Australian Special Forces soldier who is serving with the Americans while on an exchange program with the US military.
US Special Forces Combat Outpost Blackfish.(Supplied: Coffee, or Die Magazine)
At present Australia has around 300 personnel based in Afghanistan as part of Operation Highroad, which supports a NATO-led train, advise and assist mission, but very little is known about the Special Forces soldier "Mark".
Australia's Defence Department has declined to comment on whether any other Australian military personnel are involved in combat operations against IS in Afghanistan.
A US special forces team sergeant returns fire during a fight in Afghanistan(Supplied: Coffee, or die Magazine)
Skovlund said ISIS-K were still holding on in Afghanistan "mostly because they can, mostly because it's not nearly as easy to target them, as it was in Iraq and Syria, so they're holding on to these certain valleys".
The reporter said Afghan soldiers told him the local population was far more fearful of the ISIS-K terrorists, than they were of the Taliban.
A US solider calls in airstrikes over Bagh Dara Valley.(Supplied: Coffee, or Die Magazine)
"They're drug addicts, or mentally unstable folks … whereas the Taliban is much more your regular Afghan that has a different take on what the direction of the country should be."
"ISIS came down out of the mountains into the village for what I would call this day raid… and literally just took a random guy out of the crowd and beheaded him in front of the entire village."
Amin Saikal from the Australian National University said ISIS-K was a relatively small, but highly dangerous, terrorist group.
"ISIS-Khorasan, which is basically a branch of ISIS established in Afghanistan over the old territory comprised of parts of Afghanistan, Iran, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan …  is estimated to be around 1000 to 2000 right across the country," Professor Saikal said.
"They are really made up of disgruntled Pakistani Taliban and Afghan Taliban who've simply broken away from the mainstream in the two countries.
US Special Forces soldiers crest a ridgeline overlooking Bagh Dara Valley in Afghanistan.(Supplied: Coffee, or Die Magazine)
Topic:Money and Monetary Policy
Topic:Homicide
Topic:Federal Government
Topic:Defence Forces
Topic:Mining Environmental Issues
Topic:Analysis
Topic:Unrest, Conflict and War
Afghanistan
Defence Forces
Defence and National Security
Government and Politics
Terrorism
Unrest, Conflict and War
Topic:Money and Monetary Policy
Topic:Homicide
Topic:Federal Government
Topic:Defence Forces
Topic:Mining Environmental Issues
Topic:Euthanasia
Topic:Mining Environmental Issues
Topic:NRL
Topic:Police
We acknowledge Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples as the First Australians and Traditional Custodians of the lands where we live, learn, and work.
This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced.
AEST= Australian Eastern Standard Time which is 10 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time)

Title: Russia, China, Iran and Pakistan hold conference to curb ISIS menace in Afghanistan - IBTimes India
The intelligence heads of Pakistan, Iran, China, and Russia attended a conference in a bid to curb terrorism and root out Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) from Afghanistan. The increasing presence of ISIS terrorists in Afghanistan prompted the representatives of the four nations to hold the meeting at the Pakistani capital of Islamabad on Friday, July 13.
Not just ISIS, but the prevailing situation in Afghanistan had even prompted the defence officials to work together to fight terrorism from "all other terrorist groups" as well, the Pakistani media outlet The Nation reported.
According to the statistics provided by a Russian intelligence agency, there are over 10,000 ISIS terrorists functioning in Afghanistan, especially with major presence felt in the eastern province of Nangarhar. However, the officials in Afghanistan claim that only 2,000 ISIS terrorists are active in their country.
The meeting also gave out vital information on the ISIS terrorists. It was reported that ISIS terrorists functioning in Afghanistan call themselves as Daesh-Khurasan and have been involved in carrying out the recent suicide bombing attacks in Pakistan, reports Press TV.
The group claimed responsibility for the suicide bombing attack that took place in an election rally in Pakistan's southwestern province of Baluchistan that killed 128 people on Friday.
This also prompted the defence heads to focus on mutual cooperation in restoring peace by eliminating terrorism from the region. Hence, the intelligence heads ofPakistan, Iran, China, and Russia have agreed to share vital information regarding the prevention of terrorists coming from Iraq and Syria intoAfghanistan.
"The conference reached an understanding of the importance of coordinated steps to prevent the trickling ofIS terroristsfrom Syria and Iraq to Afghanistan, where from they would pose risks for neighboring countries," Sergei Ivanov was quoted as saying Russian media outlet TASS.

Title: No title found


Title: Pakistan, Iran, China, Russia agree to carry out joint efforts against ISIS
Get Alerts
Pakistan, Iran, China and Russia have agreed for integrated efforts for rooting out Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) from Afghanistan for ensuring regional peace and to eliminate the terrorism from the region.
The defence sources revealed that the recent meeting of intelligence heads of Pakistan, Russia, Iran and China was held in China in which mutual cooperation against the menace of terrorism between all four important regional players was discussed.
The meeting also took special review of prevailing situation in Afghanistan. It also discussed the matters regarding the threats due to presence of terrorists groups hailed from Middle East in the region and it was clarified that the cooperation of four countries is against ISIS and all other terrorists group and not against any country .
The sources further informed that the increasing activities of ISIS in Afghanistan led the way to call the meeting in which the ways and means to prevent the arrival of ISIS terrorists to Afghanistan from Iraq and Syria was also came under discussion . In this regard, it is agreed that all the four countries would share the intelligence information.
Sindh CM orders integration of all departments into digital system
The representative from Russia, Sargai Narshan informed the meeting that according to the information of Russian intelligence agency, around 10,000 terrorist of ISIS are functioning actively in the nine provinces of Afghanistan, whereas the stance of Afghan administration is that the number of ISIS terrorists is not more than 2000 in their country.
In the meeting Iran also showed its reservation on the escalating influence of ISIS. All the members have agreed that the safe heavens of terrorists exist there, where the Afghan government doesn't have its writ.
The meeting was informed that the ISIS in Afghanistan call themselves Khurasan Branch, which is involved in the planning of continued suicide attacks especially in Pakistan so that all the four participants of the meeting have agreed to take measures against ISIS.




NIPCO House, 4 - Shaharah e Fatima Jinnah,
Lahore, Pakistan
Tel: +92 42 36367580    |     Fax : +92 42 36367005
Nawaiwaqt Group | Copyright © 2024
Nawaiwaqt Group | Copyright © 2024

Title: ISIS plan to carry out terror strikes in Delhi thwarted by security agencies | ISIS plan to carry out terror strikes in Delhi thwarted by security agencies
New Delhi:A plan hatched by ISIS to carry out terror strikes in New Delhi was thwarted by security agencies after infiltrating a module of the dreaded terror group, officials said on Wednesday.
The ISIS terror plot was foiled following the arrest of an Afghan suicide bomber, who had been under the surveillance of security agencies for long, in late 2017.
The counter-intelligence operation included an Indian "plant" supplying the ISIS operative with explosives - without triggers - and even arranging for his accommodation in the capital's Lajpat Nagar, an official said.
The Afghan ISIS operative, who enrolled himself in an engineering college on Delhi's outskirts, was flown to Afghanistan days after his arrest and is said to be now under the custody of the US military in Afghanistan.
He had also helped the US military in its fight against the Taliban in Afghanistan, the official said.
The ISIS plan to target New Delhi was detected following more than a year of surveillance in Afghanistan, Dubai and India. It was found that a group of 12 ISIS operatives were being sent to different parts of the world after training in Pakistan to carry out bomb attacks.
The Indian operative was the one who located the Lajpat Nagar safehouse for the Afghan, though initially a third-floor apartment was arranged, this was later changed to a ground-floor apartment, the official said.
The Afghan national had done recce of his possible targets such as the Delhi Airport, Ansal Plaza mall, a Vasant Kunj mall as well as the South Extension market.

Title: ISIS plan to carry out terror strikes in Delhi thwarted by security agencies | ISIS plan to carry out terror strikes in Delhi thwarted by security agencies
New Delhi: A plan hatched by ISIS to carry out terror strikes in New Delhi was thwarted by security agencies after infiltrating a module of the dreaded terror group, officials said on Wednesday.
The ISIS terror plot was foiled following the arrest of an Afghan suicide bomber, who had been under the surveillance of security agencies for long, in late 2017.
The counter-intelligence operation included an Indian "plant" supplying the ISIS operative with explosives - without triggers - and even arranging for his accommodation in the capital's Lajpat Nagar, an official said.
The Afghan ISIS operative, who enrolled himself in an engineering college on Delhi's outskirts, was flown to Afghanistan days after his arrest and is said to be now under the custody of the US military in Afghanistan.
He had also helped the US military in its fight against the Taliban in Afghanistan, the official said.
The ISIS plan to target New Delhi was detected following more than a year of surveillance in Afghanistan, Dubai and India. It was found that a group of 12 ISIS operatives were being sent to different parts of the world after training in Pakistan to carry out bomb attacks.
The Indian operative was the one who located the Lajpat Nagar safehouse for the Afghan, though initially a third-floor apartment was arranged, this was later changed to a ground-floor apartment, the official said.
The Afghan national had done recce of his possible targets such as the Delhi Airport, Ansal Plaza mall, a Vasant Kunj mall as well as the South Extension market.

Title: ISIS plan to carry out terror strikes in Delhi thwarted by security agencies | ISIS plan to carry out terror strikes in Delhi thwarted by security agencies
New Delhi:A plan hatched by ISIS to carry out terror strikes in New Delhi was thwarted by security agencies after infiltrating a module of the dreaded terror group, officials said on Wednesday.
The ISIS terror plot was foiled following the arrest of an Afghan suicide bomber, who had been under the surveillance of security agencies for long, in late 2017.
The counter-intelligence operation included an Indian "plant" supplying the ISIS operative with explosives - without triggers - and even arranging for his accommodation in the capital's Lajpat Nagar, an official said.
The Afghan ISIS operative, who enrolled himself in an engineering college on Delhi's outskirts, was flown to Afghanistan days after his arrest and is said to be now under the custody of the US military in Afghanistan.
He had also helped the US military in its fight against the Taliban in Afghanistan, the official said.
The ISIS plan to target New Delhi was detected following more than a year of surveillance in Afghanistan, Dubai and India. It was found that a group of 12 ISIS operatives were being sent to different parts of the world after training in Pakistan to carry out bomb attacks.
The Indian operative was the one who located the Lajpat Nagar safehouse for the Afghan, though initially a third-floor apartment was arranged, this was later changed to a ground-floor apartment, the official said.
The Afghan national had done recce of his possible targets such as the Delhi Airport, Ansal Plaza mall, a Vasant Kunj mall as well as the South Extension market.

Title: U.S. Troops Capture Self-Styled ISIS Capital in Afghanistan | Al Bawaba
Afghanistan-based U.S. forces say that they have captured the so-called capital of Daesh or known as Islamic State (IS) rebels during an operation with Afghan forces in Haska Mina district of eastern Nangarhar province.
A military U.S. forces official told media that the main ISIS centers were destroyed during operation conducted two months ago and huge casualties inflicted on rebels.
About 167 IS members, including foreign militants, had been killed, nine caves, five tunnels, 30 weapons storages, nine centers destroyed and several weapons and ammunition were captured during the offensives, he said.
“We are committed that Afghanistan should have one capital which is Kabul, and we will never allow ISIS’s center in Afghanistan,” he added.
He said hundreds of Afghan and foreign forces had jointly launched the offensives two months ago and many areas recaptured.
Haska Mina district administrative chief Rezwanullah Bashermal told Pajhwok the ISIS group selected Gorgori area as thier capital after U.S. hit their center with Mother of All Bombs in Achin district.



He claimed many ISIS rebels had been killed, including Chines, Tajiks, and Uzbeks, Iranians, Chechens and a number of area’s residents.
He said the rebels retreated to Shah Shoy, Tora Bora, Khogyani, Pachiragam and some to eastern Kunar province, currently security check-post had been established in the area.
The security officials planned to eliminate another ISIS center in Tora Bora, he informed.

This article has been adapted from its original source.
ViaSyndiGate.info
Copyright � Pajhwok Afghan News. All rights reserved.
Subscribe to our newsletter for exclusive updates and enhanced content
Subscribe


Title: MSN


Title: Addressing the Divide Between Necessity and Capability for Public Engagement Within the Afghan Security Forces | Small Wars Journal
Addressing the Divide Between Necessity and Capability for Public Engagement Within the Afghan Security Forces
Joe Cheravitch
The war-weary procession of Afghans who marched on Kabul in the name of peace this summer most clearly exemplifies a trend that caught many observers of the conflict in Afghanistan off guard: a level of independent civic activism that exceeds any similar movements in recent memory.  This phenomenon probably influenced the unprecedented, however temporary nationwide ceasefire between Afghan security forces and the Taliban in mid-June.  Peace demonstrations, originally confined to Helmand after a bombing there in late March sparked protests, soon extended far beyond the south, with half of Afghanistan’s provinces experiencing sit-ins, peace-tents, or other forms of activism, in some casestranscending ethnic and tribal boundaries.[i]What was far more predictable and apparent in the midst of this year’s peace movement was the Afghan government’s all-but-complete inability to address, much less harness expanding popular energy that—for the most part—aligned with the core goal of promoting nonviolence in resolving the conflict.  Both Kabul and provincial administrations were able to muster little more than public statements conveying lukewarm encouragement while abstaining from meaningful commitment.  Afghanistan’s fragile political institutions warrant few expectations regarding substantive, consistent, and effective public engagement, especially in the divisive run-up to legislative and presidential elections.  The only potential vehicle for such engagement lies in the beleaguered Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF), those closest to Afghans residing along the embattled contours of territorial control between the government and insurgent groups.
Civic activism aimed at peace is growing at a period during which sympathy for insurgents is, perhaps, waning.  In 2016, The Asia Foundation recorded the largestdecline in sympathy for the insurgent group since 2011.[ii]Conversely, the foundation noted an increase in positive perceptions of the ANSF in their annual survey for 2017, however slight and urban-oriented.  Perceptions of the national police stabilized for the first year since falling after the drawdown of coalition forces in 2014.  This shift is probably at least partly attributable to a concerning rise in attacks by anti-government elements targeting civilians, more than doubling the first quarter this year when compared with the same period in 2017, compared to a 13 percent drop in civilian casualties caused by pro-government forces, as noted by themost recent report on civilian casualtiesfrom the United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan.[iii]Subtle narratives like these, though, are eclipsed by incidents like the Afghan airstrike on a religious school in Kunduz Province earlier this year that is widely believed to havekilled scores of civilians.[iv]The incident serves as a case for public engagement expertise in planning, which in this instance might have thwarted the attack given the obvious implications of bombing a religious school. The bungled messaging afterward exhibited the profound absence of public affairs professionalism at all levels of command within the Afghan Ministry of Defense.
Though never adequate, the ANSF once possessed a nascent ability to conduct public engagement with small, uniformed cadres covering everything from civil to religious affairs at tactical levels, mostly under the supervision of coalition mentors.  Since the drawdown of advisors in 2014, public engagement capabilities within the Afghan security forces have atrophied into almost non-existence, as evidenced by the ever-shrinking role of public engagement in the ‘1225’ reports, the US Department of Defense’s congressionally mandated accounting for the state of the ANSF.  The gap between demand for public engagement and ANSF capabilities is probably wider now than at almost any other point in the conflict.  Thus, no civil affairs specialists were on hand to provide much needed provisions and services to activists as they mobilized and moved on Kabul last month, and no public affairs or psychological operations teams were dispatched to publicize outreach that remains hypothetical.
Why Public Engagement Matters Now
Unanticipated civic activism is by no means the only impetus for reconstructing the ANSF’s public engagement capabilities.  The worsening humanitarian backdrop of the over sixteen-year conflict, exacerbated byincreasing numbers of internally displaced persons[v],souring agricultural prospects[vi], and the dwindling count of aid organizations able and willing to conduct humanitarian activities in an increasingly hostile countryside, demands better organic civil affairs within the ANSF.  Such operations are essential in countering the Taliban’s evolvingability to employ shadow governancein Afghanistan’s hinterlands, a spectrum of services ranging from health care to justice, providing an engine that powers expanding insurgent influence in swaths of the country long overlooked by Kabul.[vii]A RAND study published in 2012highlighted the efficacy of civil affairs in fostering a connection between local security forces and the community, a relationship that could carry tangible security benefits, such as an increased willingness on the part of locals to identify Taliban members and even report impending attacks.[viii]
The current commander of US forces in Afghanistanrecognized the importance of “social pressure”earlier this year in answering the ever-importanthowin enticing the Taliban to enter negotiations that include the Afghan government.[ix]Cadres of religious experts and scholarsat lower echelons, so-to-speak ‘fighting Mullahs’, are indispensable to any attempt to push reconciliation and reintegration of the Taliban on a broad scale.[x]Uniformed religious expertise is likewise essential to countering ISIS-K propaganda in Nangarhar Province, where messaging tailored to Salafi-jihadismhas proven particularly effectiveat drawing recruits to ISIS-K’s[xi]mountainous stronghold.[xii]More importantly, religious affairs teams draw upon a connection to communities based on a shared religious identity that attenuates perceptions of the ANSF as an appendage of foreign powers, something that has long hindered the security forces’ efforts to build public support.  Themost recent 1225 reporthighlighted recent successes in leveraging ties between local religious leaders and the ANSF, describing it as a more effective communications strategy than similar efforts at a national level.[xiii]
The ANSF experienced their highest period of attrition between the drawdown of coalition forces in 2014 and this year.  Casualties mounted as government control of territory receded, andmore casualties fed climbing desertion rates.[xiv]With insurgents’ expanded territorial control came a more prolific capability to stymie ANSF recruiting through overt and furtive influence over tribes and villages.  As of late last year, provincial officials estimated thatTaliban pressure nearly halved recruiting effortsin some regions.[xv]Granted, the most well-crafted, seamless public messaging ever disseminated would still fall far short of reversing the ANSF’s attrition woes. But a more effective public engagement capability could improve recruiting for the security forces, especially in rural areas.  Developing these capabilities in tactical echelons could help to solidify local relationships which have proven crucial to rural recruiting efforts in the past and which likely have eroded in the ebb-and-flow of conflict.  Rural recruitment is especially paramount in consideration of the expanding role of localized forces and militias that combat the insurgency in remote, closely contested regions.  Roughly one-fifth of Afghans identified local forces as the foremost element providing security in their region, according to The Asia Foundation’s 2017 survey.  The effectiveness of these forces along with their adherence to basic humanitarian principles have been debated since their inception.  Nonetheless, the decision to gradually establish similar units under the aegis of the Ministry of Defense and within the confines of the recently established Afghan‘territorial army’demands better army recruiting efforts in the countryside, as such units will be entirely recruited from the areas in which they will exclusively operate.[xvi]
STRATCOM = STOPGAP
The steadily dwindling ranks of the ANSF have adopted a mostly sedentary existence in the face of a resilient, if not intensifying insurgency, all while grappling with longstanding internal problems that doubtlessly have worsened since the drawdown.  A weakening force and security exigencies after 2014 forced defense officials to plug gaps with scant personnel and resources.  For instance, the Afghan army corps responsible for securing Helmand as of early this yearwas under half strength, whose commander pointed to attrition and fuel shortages as causes of continued underperformance despite the relatively recent boost of Marine advisors in the province.[xvii]Lessons gained through prior advising in the fields of civil affairs, psychological and information operations, and religious-cultural, and public affairs slowly evaporated.  As of this year, most of the ad-hoc, disparate constellation of public engagement specialists remaining in the ANSF have been herded under the umbrella of a centralized ‘Strategic Communication’ (STRATCOM) plan, judging from the most recent 1225 report.
The current STRATCOM initiative does well in accounting for the stark realities facing the security forces’ current public engagement capabilities: too few personnel, the inherent corruption that syphons funds from such units, and the probably limited ability of advisors to partner with specialists below the ministerial level.  But recognition of dire weakness can hardly be considered a planning strength.  The STRATCOM effort provides several national-level fora on public engagement issues that are inclusive, involving governmental counterparts in public messaging, such as the ministries of culture and religious affairs, as well as civil-society groups.  Strategic-level messaging can counter insurgent narratives broadcasted to urban Afghans and external audiences, and it can patch together an adequate number of senior-enough leaders to conduct regular coordination meetings in Kabul.  It falls short, however, in addressing the glaring lack of capabilities at the operational and tactical levels, in working to improve public engagement capabilities in the mudbrick localities where tip-lines can save lives, where disconnected villagers look to local military forces as the face of a government that is otherwise usually ethereal.
The fault lies not in a strategy tasked to do what it can with the few existing means available to shape public engagement within the ANSF.  The fault lies in the all-but-entire omission of these capabilities from the ambitious reform agenda unveiled by Resolute Support[xviii]and Kabul last year, often referred to as the ‘Four-Year Plan’ or ‘Roadmap’, an effort to break a perceived stalemate between the Afghan security forces and an entrenched insurgency.  Favoring the kinetic over the non-lethal, as evidenced by the Roadmap’s fixation on bolstering the Afghan air force and growing the ranks of commandos, the strategy nonetheless focuses on population control as a measure of success, hoping to eventually expand the swath of Afghans under government control to80 percent of the total population.[xix]The innate difficulties of accurately assessing Afghanistan’s population aside, a plan that emphasizes population control while failing to address security forces’ inability to interact with and garner support from the public will face obvious challenges in holding long-contested territory, often where the distinction between insurgent and security forces has blurred throughout the course of this conflict.  In fact, fulfilling the Roadmap’s agenda in some cases may even be at the expense of existing public engagement capabilities, however indirectly.  Several senior Afghan STRATCOM officials face mandatory retirement due to age limitations under the anticorruption regime prescribed by the Roadmap, according to the most recent 1225 report, particularly religious-cultural and public affairs officers, with no qualified replacements in sight.  Additionally, the breakneck push to expand kinetic capabilities in the security forces, much of which relies on the rapid growth of commando units, will undoubtedly redirect the few soldiers and specialists on hand into these formations.
Of course, there is no substitute for battlefield victories, and enhancing the Afghan air force and augmenting commando units are feasible means of helping the ANSF improve poor kinetic performance.  But to do so while neglecting the security services’ languishing public engagement capabilities is to ensure that tactical victories are short-lived, that popular support in remote areas remains as precarious as the undermanned checkpoints surrounding threatened villages and district centers.
RIABs, Not MOABs: Setting Information Operations Straight
Part of the solution rests in recalibrating US commanders’ understanding of effective information operations.  Early last year, The US Air Force dropped the largest non-nuclear bomb in its arsenal, the ‘massive ordinance air blast’ GBU-43/B, more widely known by its nickname, the ‘mother-of-all-bombs’ (MOAB), on a cave network used by ISIS-K fighters in Nangarhar Province.  Officials subsequently maneuvered between kinetic and psychological warfare in explaining the motivation and desired effect of the drop.  Giventhe dubious tactical effectof the strike[xx], many read an overwhelmingly psychological case for the MOAB, particularly a jab at a nuclearizing North Korea.  The bomb apparently had a more baffling than awing effect, but it marked an important trend in information operations conducted by US forces: a departure from the kind of engagement that is much more difficult to conduct, the face-to-face conversations with locals, the makeshift radio stations in far-flung warzones, the infrastructure projects in dilapidated villages, all of which are far more complex and intensive than the pen stroke required to authorize an airstrike, but far more effective at winning hearts-and-minds.
A far greater affront to the field of information and psychological operations occurred late last year, when a leaflet that displayed koranic verse on a dog was disseminated in eastern Afghanistan, a product offensive enough to incitelarge-scale protests in Kabul.[xxi]The inflammatory product signified an alarming lack of cultural awareness and tradecraft, probably worsened by a lack of available Afghan experts and planners who unquestionably should serve as part of any such operations.  Both the MOAB and leaflet incidents reinforce the maxim that only the worst information and psychological operations are dropped from the air. They also displayed a willingness to conduct these operations unilaterally, the tacit acknowledgement of the decay of Afghan public engagement capabilities and the unwillingness to undertake the difficult task of rebuilding them.  In fiscal year 2018, for instance, public affairs and information operations funding for the Afghan army comprised about 7 percent of the total request in theAfghan Security Forces Fund (ASFF)for ‘other sustainment’, a category that includes furniture and itself a minor fraction of the overall sustainment budget for the Afghan army. ASFF funding for such operations will decline from roughly $1.6 million this fiscal year to about $224 thousand in fiscal year 2019.[xxii]
Public engagement is often much more mundane than large bombs.  It involves dusty patrols into distant corners of Afghanistan most Afghans prefer to avoid, trying to discern fact from fiction between feuding parties while not alienating any given one, and administering humanitarian aid to impoverished civilians who struggle to maintain a composed queue with the promise of free provisions only steps in front of them.  But that is engagement in its purest and most necessary form, and—currently—it can only be done by specialists within the ANSF.  As such capabilities have weakened in the Afghan military and police, so, too, have the hard lessons learned through direct US military experience in theater begun to fade.  As aging civil and public affairs, psychological and information operations soldiers who spent time on the ground in Afghanistan gradually leave the ranks, the institutional expertise they carry walks with them.  New commanders and soldiers are drawn wholesale to the more alluring aspects of these operations, such as using social media to influence target audiences.  The importance of social media in public engagement is irrefutable and multipurposed, accomplishing a range of objectives from boosting urban recruitment to countering narratives propagated by online ‘Talifans’.[xxiii]But social media has a limited ability to shape public perceptions in Afghanistan’s countryside, where the bulk of the population resides, where radio dominates other media, and where the course of the conflict is mostly decided.
In May, the US Marine Corpsformally adopted a career pathfor psychological operations specialists, folding them into newly founded ‘Information Groups’.[xxiv]Two months earlier, the Corpsforwarded a bidfor commercial ‘radios-in-a-box’ (RIAB), the staple of US military efforts to create tactical radio stations in Afghanistan during the heyday of Operation Enduring Freedom.[xxv]The precise reasoning for cementing existing public engagement capabilities within the Corps in 2018 remains somewhat unclear, with countering near-peer competitors such as Russia and China mentioned almost as much as waging counterinsurgency.  But little subtext is needed to connect the Corps’ painful experience in Helmand Province with the necessity of public engagement, however late that realization might have come.  There is a much less forgiving timeline surrounding our current campaign in Afghanistan.  With the looming possibility of an Afghan policy review soon, something which will inarguably call into question commitments to the struggling Afghan security forces, a precise consideration of our advising and material resources is desperately needed.  Events on the ground, however, follow no such schedule and promise to alter the trajectory of the conflict whether the ANSF are prepared to potentially shape them.
End Notes
[i]Ali Mohammad Sabawoon, “Going Nationwide: The Helmand peace march initiative”, 2018, https://www.afghanistan-analysts.org/going-nationwide-the-helmand-peace-march-initiative/
[ii]Tabasum Akseer, Mohammad Shoaib Haidary, Rebecca Miller, et al, “Afghanistan in 2017:
A Survey of the Afghan People”, pg. 58, 2017, https://asiafoundation.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/11/2017_AfghanSurvey_report.pdf
[iii]“Quarterly Report on the Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict: 1 January to 31 March 2018”, pg.3, 2018, https://unama.unmissions.org/sites/default/files/unama_protection_of_civilians_first_quarter_2018_report_11_april_0.pdf
[iv]“Carnage as airstrike hits boy’s school in Taliban territory”, 2018, https://www.cbsnews.com/news/afghanistan-airstrike-kunduz-dashte-archi-district-kabul-says-taliban-hit/
[v]“Increased numbers of returnees and refugees stretch health service provision in Afghanistan”, 2018, https://reliefweb.int/report/afghanistan/increased-numbers-returnees-and-refugees-stretch-health-service-provision
[vi]Mujib Mashal, “Drought Adds to Woes of Afghanistan, in Grips of a Raging War”, 2018, https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/27/world/asia/afghanistan-drought-war.html
[vii]Pamela Constable, “The Taliban has successfully built a parallel state in many parts of Afghanistan, report says”, 2018, https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/worldviews/wp/2018/06/21/the-taliban-has-successfully-built-a-parallel-state-in-many-parts-of-afghanistan-report-says/?utm_term=.407f5db960be
[viii]Arturo Munoz, “U.S. Military Information Operations in Afghanistan Effectiveness of Psychological Operations 2001–2010”, 2012, https://www.rand.org/content/dam/rand/pubs/monographs/2012/RAND_MG1060.pdf
[ix]“Nicholson Says Situation in Afghanistan Has Fundamentally Changed”, 2018, https://www.defense.gov/News/Article/Article/1473636/nicholson-says-situation-in-afghanistan-has-fundamentally-changed/
[x]Azam Ahmed, “Afghans See Their Army Woo Them With Piety”, 2013, https://www.nytimes.com/2013/07/22/world/asia/afghans-see-their-army-woo-them-with-piety.html?mtrref=undefined
[xi]Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant-Khorasan
[xii]Borhan Osman, “ISKP’s Battle for Minds: What are its main messages and who do they attract?”, 2016, https://www.afghanistan-analysts.org/iskps-battle-for-minds-what-are-their-main-messages-and-who-do-they-attract/
[xiii]“Enhancing Security and Stability in Afghanistan”, pg. 46, 2018, https://media.defense.gov/2018/Jul/03/2001938620/-1/-1/1/1225-REPORT-JUNE-2018-FINAL-UNCLASS-BASE.PDF
[xiv]Sayed Sarwar Amani, Andrew MacAskill, “Desertions deplete Afghan forces, adding to security worries”, 2016, https://www.reuters.com/article/us-afghanistan-army-desertions/desertions-deplete-afghan-forces-adding-to-security-worries-idUSKCN0UW1K3
[xv]Najim Rahim, Mujib Mashal, “Afghan Army Recruitment Dwindles as Taliban Threaten Families”, 2017, https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/18/world/asia/afghanistan-taliban-army-recruitment.html
[xvi]Ayaz Gul, “Afghanistan Unveils Plans for Controversial Militia Force”, 2018, https://www.voanews.com/a/afghanistan-militia-force/4265987.html
[xvii]Dan Lamothe, “Inside the Marines’ new mission in Afghanistan: Taking back territory previously won”, 2018, https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/asia_pacific/inside-the-marines-new-mission-in-afghanistan-taking-back-territory-previously-won/2018/04/15/a91d4668-382c-11e8-af3c-2123715f78df_story.html?noredirect=on&utm_term=.54de6bd679e1
[xviii]Operation Resolute Support: The NATO-led effort to train, advise, and assist the ANSF.
[xix]Elizabeth McLaughlin, “ANALYSIS: Losing troops and territory, will a new US strategy change the Afghan war?”, 2017, https://abcnews.go.com/International/analysis-losing-troops-territory-us-strategy-change-afghan/story?id=52047083
[xx]“After the Dust Settles — Making Sense of the Non-sense: A deeper analysis of the MOAB strike in Afghanistan”, 2017, https://stories.alcis.org/after-the-dust-settles-making-sense-of-the-non-sense-c97da619a20f
[xxi]Karim Amini, “Protestors Chant ‘Death to America’ Amid Leaflet Outcry”, 2017, https://www.tolonews.com/afghanistan/protestors-chant-%E2%80%98death-america%E2%80%99-amid-leaflet-outcry
[xxii]“Justification for FY 2019 Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) Afghanistan Security Forces Fund (ASFF)”, pg. 26, 2018, https://comptroller.defense.gov/Portals/45/Documents/defbudget/fy2019/FY2019_ASFF_Justification_Book.pdf
[xxiii]Edwards, David B.Caravan of Martyrs. pg. 173. 2017.
[xxiv]Hope Hodge Seck, “Marines to Get New Psychological Operations MOS as Community Grows”, 2018, https://www.military.com/daily-news/2018/05/14/marines-get-new-psychological-operations-mos-community-grows.html
[xxv]Shawn Snow, “Marines look to beef psychological ops with a radio station in a box”, 2018, https://www.marinecorpstimes.com/news/your-marine-corps/2018/03/15/marines-look-to-beef-psychological-ops-with-a-radio-station-in-a-box/
Joe Cheravitch is a defense analyst with the RAND Corporation.  He is a graduate of Georgetown University, where he obtained a Master of Science in Foreign Service degree.  Joe served as an enlisted psychological operations specialist in the U.S. Army from 2008 to 2012, deploying to Afghanistan in 2010 and Iraq in 2011.
©2005-2020
Small Wars Journal is published bySmall Wars Foundation- a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation.Original content is published under aCreative Commons Licenseper ourTerms of Use.
© Copyright 2024| Site by3C Web Services

Title: No title found


Title: The Afghan War of Attrition | RealClearWorld
If the U.S. has any real strategy in Afghanistan, it seems to be fighting a war of attrition long enough and well enough for the threat to drop to a level that Afghan forces can handle or accept a peace settlement credible enough for the U.S. to leave. After seventeen years of combat, no one at any level is claiming that enough military progress has been made in strengthening the ANSF enough for it to win. The most favorable claims seem to be that the ANSF are not losing, may someday become able to win with U.S. support.



Title: News From Afghanistan – In  Saner  Thought
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address:
Sign me up!

Believe it or not after 17 long bloody years there is still news from Afghanistan…..
The government of Afghanistan held talks with the Taleban…it brought about a short ceasefire but not much else…..
If the U.S. has any real strategy in Afghanistan, it seems to be fighting a war of attrition long enough and well enough for the threat to drop to a level that Afghan forces can handle or accept a peace settlement credible enough for the U.S. to leave. After seventeen years of combat, no one at any level is claiming that enough military progress has been made in strengthening the ANSF enough for it to win. The most favorable claims seem to be that the ANSF are not losing, may someday become able to win with U.S. support.
No one is making any serious claims about success at the civil level in terms of politics, governance, and economics. Hope for the civil side seems to rely on the theory that if you attempt enough reform plans, one may eventually work. This is a literal triumph of hope over experience.
https://www.csis.org/analysis/afghan-war-attrition-peace-talks-remain-extension-war-other-means
SecState Pompeo visited Afghanistan and reported back that our strategy is indeed working……that is great considering that NO one knows just what the strategy is….so how can we say it is working……
http://www.theamericanconservative.com/articles/no-secretary-pompeo-americas-strategy-in-afghanistan-is-not-working/
Then more news comes out about the ISIS cell fighting in Afghanistan…..
Gen. John Nicholson, the US commander in Afghanistan,says that the ISIS affiliate is increasingly resilient,with access to foreign fighters. On top of that, Nicholson warned, ISIS is getting funding and other general support from jihadist groups in several nearby countries.
This is the first time officials are addressing this issue. Afghan officials have declared the ISIS presence in Nangarhar to have been “wiped out” several times following offensives in recent years, and when that offensive wraps up, ISIS reemerges there, seemingly as strong as ever.
Before, officials just ignored the past, and were every bit as confident about their newest offensive. Gen. Nicholson’s comments show that there is at least some recognition that these offensives, while killing a lot of people, aren’t amounting to much.
(antiwar.com)
I apologize for the terrible news but at least you know how bad it is….now is time for the people to speak up and demand out troops come home.
The Taliban have one agenda, a fundamentalist Muslim state in Afghanistan. No amount of talking is ever going to change that, sadly.Best wishes, Pete.
I just read a report that ISIS is attacking Taleban this time killing 20 maybe more…..that could be interesting in itself….chuq
Extremists often fight among themselves. We should leave them to do just that, and pull out.
I like the idea of us bringing the troops home….chuq
I’m so glad we listened to Obama who said he get the troops out!  Just how stupid were we?!!
True that and Dear Leader now is saying the same thing…maybe he will buck the system and do something….chuq
Warlords are talking with warlords, and extremists fighting against extremists. What a wonderful world, and our governments in Europe sell the weapons, and your soldiers loose their lives. ;-(What about sending politicans themselves into the next war? Michael
I have always been a supporter of the next war fought in a ring by the two leaders….winner take all….chuq

Δ
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.Learn how your comment data is processed.

Title: 63 insurgents killed in ANSF operations: Afghan ministry
Get Alerts
Afghanistan Ministry of Defense (MoD) said in a statement on Sunday that at least 63 insurgents were killed in the past 24 hours during clearance operations by the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) across the country, reportedTolo news.
According to the statement in the past 24 hours, the forces conducted 13 joint operations and 13 airstrikes against enemy hideouts.
The ministry claims that during the operation 33 insurgents were also wounded.
The operations were conducted in the Ghazni, Khost, Maidan Wardak, Pakita, Uruzgan, Badghis, Farah, Faryab, Takhar, Kunduz, Nimroz and Helmand provinces, MoD said.
The ministry said that during the operations weapons caches and hideouts were destroyed.
The ministry did not provide further information regarding casualties among security forces or civilians.
The Taliban has also not commented on the operations.
SAFF U17 Championship 2024: Pakistan, Bhutan draw in dramatic finish
This comes after President Ashraf Ghani on Saturday announced the end of the ceasefire and ordered security forces to resume operations across the country.
Speaking at a press conference at the Presidential Palace in Kabul, Ghani said: “The ceasefire has ended, our security and defence forces are allowed to carry out operations”.




NIPCO House, 4 - Shaharah e Fatima Jinnah,
Lahore, Pakistan
Tel: +92 42 36367580    |     Fax : +92 42 36367005
Nawaiwaqt Group | Copyright © 2024
Nawaiwaqt Group | Copyright © 2024

Title: UNAMA mid year report 2018: Killing of civilians in Afghanistan breaks all records in first six months of 2018
Kabul, Afghanistan: The Mid-Year report published by United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) indicates that killing of civilians in first six months of year 2018 has broken all previous records documented by
In first six months of 2018, there were 5,122 civilian casualties, 1,692 deaths and 3,430 civilians were injured.
Seven percent of killed civilians lost their lives in air attacks conducted either by NATO allied forces or Afghan Air force.

Report indicates that 42% of total civilian casualties took place due to attacks conducted by Taliban and 18% in attacked conducted by Daesh (Islamic State in Khorasan Province).
As many as 17% civilians were killed by Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) and two per cent were killed by international military and one per cent to pro-government armed groups.
Nine civilians including two children were killed every day in Afghanistan during the corresponding period (of report) of January to June 2018 while an average of 19 civilians, including five children, were injured every day.

Breakup indicates that 29% civilians were killed/injured in ground engagements, suicide bombing and complex attacks caused death of 28% and 7% were killed in air attacks.
Kabul, Nangarhar, Faryab, Helmand and Kandahar were top provinces in civilian’s causalities.
Report indicates that the trend towards more civilians being killed and injured in air strikes continued in 2018, with a 52 per cent increase in January to June this year compared to the first half of 2017 (353 civilian casualties; 149 deaths and 204 injured). That was itself a 43 per cent increase on the 2016 numbers.
Report also indicates that election staff was a prime target of killings, resulting in postponement of elections to October 20, 2018 from July 9, 2018. Parliamentary elections in Afghanistan were supposed to be held in October 2017 but were postponed as Afghan government failed to provide environment needed for fair and free elections.
Dispatch News Desk is an award-winning News Agency of Pakistan founded by Agha Iqrar Haroon, a well-knownesearch journalist and political analyst in 2013

Title: German-Pakistani ties on sensitive diplomatic footing – DW – 07/18/2018
Germany is an important partner and source of aid to Pakistan. However, even as officials in Berlin are wary of the Pakistani military's political power ahead of the July 25 elections, criticism has proven difficult.
On a late Friday afternoon in early July, many of the offices that house Germany's members of parliament in Berlin were deserted. As most MPs had already left for the summer recess, the hallways were eerily quiet.
Yet Tobias Pflüger, a member of Germany's Left Party Die Linke, was in no hurry to leave. The veteran politician, who sports a greying goatee, heads the German-South Asian parliamentary group. It's a position he's been holding for a few months. He pointed to a binder on his table, a briefing on Pakistan provided by the German foreign office.
In the briefing, he told DW, the German foreign office paints Pakistan as a strategic partner in the war against terror. "The German foreign ministry is too focused on military cooperation," he said.
He was referring to an agreement on bilateral cooperation between the German and Pakistani defense ministries signed in 2012. Aside from regular meetings between members of both armies, the cooperation is mostly geared towards training provided by Germany.
Read more:Why are Pakistanis so successful at finding jobs in Germany?

'Crackdown' on the media
A spokesman for the Germany's defense ministry told DW in a written response that the goal of German-Pakistani military cooperation is to "impart specialist knowledge and values, and build long-term relationships."
The cooperation also involves training courses for commanding officers at the German army's academy in Hamburg. However, the omnipotent presence of Pakistan's powerful military in the country's politics is a source of controversy.
The army, or Establishment, as it is frequently referred to, is often described as pulling the strings behind the scenes.
Many journalists, who prefer to remain anonymous, say the army has been behind an unprecedented crackdown on the media in recent months, including forced disappearances, as the country gears up for the general elections on July 25. Few of them dare to say so openly. The Pakistani army routinely denies this allegation.
The 2018 Pakistani elections are being held after months of political turmoil. Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif was ousted from office last year following a corruption investigation. He wassentenced in absentia to 10 years in prisonfor alleged corruption earlier this month.
Pakistan's most high-profile politician and three-time prime minister had antagonized generals with his attempts to improve relations with the country's arch-rival India. The two countries have been at loggerheads for decades.
His Pakistani Muslim League (Nawaz Group) is in a tight race with the opposition Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI, Movement for Justice) party, headed by Imran Khan. The former cricketer-turned-politician is running on a socially conservative, anti-corruption platform and is often described as cozying up to the army.
Read more:German doctor and nun Ruth Pfau, Pakistan's 'mother of leprosy patients', dies
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
Pakistan: 'too important to ignore'
And yet, the Pakistani army is an important ally in the international fight against terrorism and an important player in brokering peace talks with the Taliban in Afghanistan. Even though Germany has elevated Pakistan's archrival India to a strategic partner, Germany's special envoy for Afghanistan and Pakistan, Markus Potzel told DW that "Pakistan is too important to ignore."
Pakistan, a nuclear power with a history of supporting Islamists operating in Afghanistan, first with American support in the 1980s, has long been seen as being too lenient on groups which aligned with the military's interests in Afghanistan and Kashmir.
But the last few years have seen a more concerted effort by the army to crack down on militant networks operating in and from Pakistan. And, as a result, attacks inside of the country have decreased considerably, even though the country is still seen as doing too little when it comes to cracking down on terror financing.
In January, the US announced that it was suspending military aid to Pakistan, claiming that Pakistan had not done enough against two groups, the Afghan Taliban and Haqqani network, which Washington says launch attacks from Pakistan in Afghanistan.
Read more:Global terror watchlist: Will Pakistan change its Afghanistan policy?
It's a concern that German diplomats share. "As long as Taliban-linked Haqqani Network find shelter in Pakistan, we doubt that the fight against terrorism is being conducted with the necessary resolve," Potzel told DW.
Germany's concerns about NGOs
In 2015, Pakistan ordered all foreign NGOs to register with officials. According to the German development ministry, four German NGOs and five political foundations are still waiting for their registration to be granted.
Read more:Why Pakistan wants to rein in its civil society
Together with other international donors, the German government has been lobbying behind the scenes. And it's one of the topics that officials will bring up later this year when they meet their counterparts for a strategic dialogue that both countries conduct biannually.
It's also the reason why Germany – the country's fourth largest donor – has been withholding a loan worth 39 million euros, which was meant to go towards improving the country's energy sector. Germany's aid, which amounts to almost 84 million euros in 2017 and 2018, also focuses on good governance and sustainable economic development.
Germany is also an important trade partner with Pakistan. Germany exports machines, chemical and electrical goods as well as vehicles and imports textiles and leather goods to the South Asian country. In 2016, the bilateral trade volume amounted to 2.6 billion euros, according to the German foreign office.
"Germany does have some leverage," Saroop Ijaz, a Pakistani laywer who also works for Human Rights Watch, told DW. Next to France, he said Germany is one of the most important bilateral players in Pakistan.
But he added that Germany, or rather its embassy in Pakistan, has to be cautious when it comes to public criticism of the Pakistani government and state institutions.
"Bilateral criticism is difficult," he said. Rather, pressure is exerted behind the scenes, focusing on individual cases of human rights abuses, as well as labor and social rights.
In Berlin, the assumption is that Germany is likely to become a more important player in Pakistan once London, the former colonial power, withdraws from the European Union.
"We can't be indifferent to Pakistan and I am convinced that the Pakistanis aren't indifferent towards us either," special envoy Potzel said about the bilateral relationship.
Read more:Pakistani and Afghan refugees fear backlash after Berlin attack


Title: 'Military doesn't want Sharif's party to win another term' – DW – 07/16/2018
Analyst Michael Kugelman tells DW that while the Pakistani military does not want former PM Nawaz Sharif's party to win another term, it is also not very comfortable with the other possible post-election scenarios.
DW: How do you see the role of Pakistan's military establishment ahead of the July 25 general elections?
Michael Kugelman: The military is not at all comfortable with the prospect of the PML-N (Pakistan Muslim League of former PM Nawaz Sharif) winning another term. It clashed repeatedly with the PML-N over the last five years, so the military will have a strong motivation to use its influence behind the scenes to undercut the PML-N's electoral prospects.
This narrative is not as clear-cut as it may seem, however. Sharif's party has already benefited, in a way, from perceptions of military meddling. Top PML-N leaders have indirectly blamed the military for the party's legal travails. In other words, the PML-N has used a victimization narrative to garner sympathy.
Additionally, while the military certainly has its concerns about the PML-N returning to power, personalities matter. If the PML-N leads the next government, Shahbaz Sharif would likely be premier. Shahbaz Sharif has a much better relationship with the military than does his elder brother Nawaz.
The bottom line is that there are plenty of reasons for the military to be doing things behind the scenes to hurt the PML-N's electoral chances. But at the same time, the political context is complicated, and we should be cautious in our speculations.
Read more:Pakistan's ex-PM Nawaz Sharif challenges jail sentence
Is a military takeover a possibility?
This is unlikely. The only scenario I can think of under which the military could step in is if the various parties are unable to form a government, and you start having an extended period of paralysis with no end in sight. In that case, the military could conceivably seize power and claim it was doing so for the good of the country.
Another potential problematic scenario would be if the PML-N wins another simple majority, and the PTI (Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf, headed by Imran Khan) lambasts the outcome as a huge electoral fraud, and then its members take to the streets in mass numbers and the protests lead to violence over an extended period of time. In this case, the military may step in.
I do think, however, that both outcomes are unlikely. Democratization in Pakistan has progressed to the point where it would take a really serious and unlikely trigger for the army to step in. And given how democracy, on procedural levels, has been relatively smooth in Pakistan over the last decade, I'm fairly optimistic that we won't have to worry about a military takeover anytime in the foreseeable future.
Read more:
Maryam Nawaz, challenging Pakistan's powerful army
Why ousted Pakistani PM Nawaz Sharif turned against the powerful military

Can a military-backed government be stable?
It's true that a civilian administration that doesn't pick fights with the military will have fewer internal challenges to deal with than would a government that resists the military. Indeed, perhaps one reason why Asif Ali Zardari (co-chairman of the Pakistan People's Party)—no close friend of the army—was able to serve out his entire term as Pakistani president from 2008 to 2013 is that he didn't try to pick major fights with the military.
This suggests that if the election produces a new government led by the PTI, which enjoys more cordial ties to the military than does the PML-N, then the civilian administration won't have to worry about efforts to undercut it. And yet, the story isn't as simple as it may seem.
While the PTI has good relations with the establishment, I'm not so sure the establishment would be fully comfortable about the idea of a Prime Minister Imran Khan. In fact, given some of Khan's actions over recent years—from his bizarre and rambling speeches during an anti-government protest in 2014 to his stubborn insistence on holding peace talks with Pakistani Taliban terrorists even as they were butchering children—the establishment may view him more as an unpredictable loose cannon than as a pliable ally.
Read more:
Former PM Nawaz Sharif arrested on return to Pakistan
Ahead of elections, Pakistan heads toward more political chaos

Who would India and Afghanistan prefer to see as Pakistan's next prime minister?
New Delhi and Kabul were sympathetic to Sharif's government, which in its earlier days in power in 2013 and 2014, before the military began undercutting it, demonstrated a clear intention to improve Pakistan's relations with its two neighbors. However, both India and Afghanistan—like the United States and all of Pakistan's other key interlocutors—recognize that the military, not the civilian leadership, calls the shots on foreign policy. So in this regard, Pakistan's neighbors will likely be nervous no matter what the next government looks like, given that the military—which over the years has provided support to terrorists that attack both India and Afghanistan—will remain powerful and still ascendant.
For New Delhi and Kabul, the key thing to watch will be the messaging coming from the military about how it views relations with its neighbors. If recent weeks are any indication, then there's reason to hope that relations with Kabul—where Pakistan's army chief recently paid a visit—could experience some improvements, while relations with New Delhi will remain in a stalemate. Additionally, both India and Afghanistan are scheduled to have their own elections in the next year, and the composition of their new governments could have some influence on the thinking of the Pakistani military.
Read more:US watches Pakistan's democratic transition with caution
What are the major US apprehensions about Pakistan's post-election political setup?
For the US and other Western powers, the chief concerns in Pakistan are stability and a government that they can work with. There are tradeoffs here. While a PML-N-led government would be easier to work with than would be a PTI-led government, which has taken more stridently anti-US and anti-West positions, a PML-N-led government would also likely be less stable internally because of expected spats with the military. At the same time, regardless of the future political set up, the military will remain the most powerful actor, and it is the military's destabilizing policies—including its continued support for militant groups that stage attacks in India and Afghanistan—that worry the West the most.
In the end, the US and the rest of the West will be able to live with whatever Pakistan's next government turns out to be, but their longstanding concerns about stability in a nation as volatile as Pakistan will remain firmly in place.
Read more:Global terror watchlist: Will Pakistan change its Afghanistan policy?
Michael Kugelman is a senior associate for South and Southeast Asia at the Washington-based Woodrow Wilson Center for Scholars.
The interview was conducted by Kishwar Mustafa.

Title: Who would prevail in crucial Pakistan vote? – DW – 07/19/2018
What's at stake in Pakistan's upcoming parliamentary elections? Should the West be concerned about a possible military-backed government and its impact on Afghanistan's security and South Asia's geopolitics? DW analyzes.
For years, political stability in nuclear-armed Pakistan has been a major concern for the international community, particularly for the West. Terrorist attacks perpetrated by homegrown Islamists have wreaked havoc in the South Asian country that borders Iran, Afghanistan, China and India. A surge in extremist tendencies and a rise of anti-West Islamist parties in Pakistan is definitely not a pleasant situation for the United States and its NATO allies, whose forces have been battling the Taliban and so-called "Islamic State" (IS) in Afghanistan for many years.
Although Washington has never been shy of criticizing the Pakistani military establishment for "backing" its "jihadist proxy groups" in war-torn Afghanistan, the US so far has not been able to confront the army generals openly and directly.
Read more:German-Pakistani relations on sensitive diplomatic footing
The Pakistani military, thus, remains the most powerful player in the country's politics and calls most of the shots. Pakistan's security is directly linked to its army's policies and actions. Although the generals are seen as backing some extremists groups — an allegation they deny — a weakened Pakistani army could also trigger an uncontrollable chaos in the Islamic country as "non-state actors" could gain control of the administration.
Of course, a mature civilian political setup can thwart such dangers, but democracy has failed to deliver much to the masses. Also, the generals have ruled the country either directly or from behind the scenes, hence not allowing democracy to flourish.
The July 25 general elections in the country are being contested against the backdrop of who should have supremacy in state affairs? Civilian leaders, the military or the military-backed politicians?

Former PM's 'rebellion'
A military protégé in the 1980s and the early 1990s, three-time premier Nawaz Sharif turned against his army backers in 1999 when his majority government was overthrown by General Pervez Musharraf in a bloodless coup. Sharif was sent into exile in Saudi Arabia after giving a guarantee that he would not return for the following ten years.
But Sharif came back to Pakistan after eight years to play an active role in politics. He had already joined hands with another former PM, Benazir Bhutto, who was later assassinated in an election rally in December 2007. Sharif had also signed a "charter of democracy" with Bhutto to minimize the role of the military in state affairs.
But it was after he became prime minister in 2013 that Sharif adopted an explicit anti-military posture. He attempted to seek friendly ties with India and its prime minister, Narendra Modi, and tried to take foreign policy matters in his control. Sharif's moves irked the army, who analysts say tried to cut him to size.
Last year, Pakistan's Supreme Court disqualified Sharif from prime minister's post on Panama Papers-linked corruption charges. Earlier in July, an accountability court sentenced him to 10 years in prison and his daughter Maryam Nawaz to seven years behind the bars. Both were in the UK when the court delivered its verdict.
Read more:Maryam Nawaz, challenging Pakistan's powerful army
This could have been the end of Sharif's political career, but he decided to return to Pakistan from the UK to face jail. As the father-daughter duo are nowincarcerated in a Rawalpindi jail, his Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz Group, PML-N) party's chances of coming back to power after the July 25 vote have increased. But political observers say the military is trying to make sure that Sharif's resurgence doesn't take place and is using the judiciary to keep him out of politics. The military's public relations department has refuted these claims many times.
"Civil-military relations deteriorated during Sharif's tenure. Sharif's arrest could fuel these tensions," Zahid Hussain, a political commentator, told DW.
Another Pakistan analyst Abdullah Dayo says: "Sharif is likely to get 'sympathy votes.' He has been successful in promoting his narrative about civilian supremacy."

The conservative anti-corruption 'messiah'
Imran Khan was Pakistan's most poplar cricketer in the 1970s and the 1980s. Under his captaincy, the country won its first one-day format cricket World Cup. In the 1990s, Khan started charity work and opened a much-needed cancer hospital in the country. He received donations from all around the country.
Read more:Who really is Imran Khan?
Khan soon ventured into politics and launched the Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI, Movement for Justice) party that promised to eradicate corruption from Pakistan. Essentially a reformist party, the PTI blamed Sharif's PML-N and Bhutto's Pakistan People's Party (PPP) for the country's acute economic and energy crises, unemployment and inflation.
Khan's PTI initially didn't gain much traction. During the early 2000s, Pakistan's main focus was on the US-led war on terror in Afghanistan. But after the end of Musharraf's eight-year rule in 2007 and the return of democracy, the PTI slowly made its way into Pakistani politics. In the 2013 election, Khan's party came second and formed government in the restive northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, which borders Afghanistan.
"Khan's stance on corruption, terrorism and nepotism in Pakistani politics has struck a chord with the masses, which are fed up with the traditional ruling elite. He has no corruption charges on him, no foreign assets," claims a PTI activist in Islamabad, Khawar Sohail.
It was Khan's party who filed corruption cases against Sharif. His relentless effort to see Sharif out of power has borne fruits. Now he is dubbed "the next PM" of Pakistan. It is unclear, however, whether he can defeat Sharif's party in Punjab, Pakistan's most populous and electorally most significant province. Punjab is still Sharif's political stronghold and poll rigging in Khan's favor could trigger massive protests in the province. But it is clear that whoever wins in this province will form the next government in Islamabad.
"With alleged election rigging in favor of the PTI, it is likely that Khan's party will get more seats in parliament. The PML-N will also face a tough challenge in Punjab," analyst Dayo said.
But Xari Jalil, a Lahore-based journalist, thinks it will be a "hung parliament" with no party gaining a majority.
"In 2013, Sharif's PML-N won Punjab easily. This time we see a tough competition from the PTI. At the same time, the PTI won't be able to win as many seats in the province as it is expecting. After all, the PML-N still has support in Punjab," Jalil told DW.
Some analysts are of the view that a parliament with no clear majority for any party also suits the military establishment, as it will be easier for the generals to deal with a "weak premier."
The Pakistani army denies it favors any party and says it has no role in election beyond its constitutional limits.
Read more:How would the US deal with a 'Prime Minister Imran Khan'?

'Voice of sanity'
Amid this Sharif-Khan tug-of-war, it is Bilawal Bhutto Zardari, son of Benazir Bhutto, who has impressed the liberal sections most. Bilawal, who became chairman of the PPP at an early age after his mother's assassination in 2007, faces a Herculean task to revive the PPP, which was once Pakistan's most potent political force. Although the PPP's chances of winning next week's vote are slim, Bilawal's political campaign has focused on dealing with issues and ideas rather than personalities.
But analysts also say that he needs to distance himself from his father, former President Asif Ali Zardari, if he wants to have a long political career. Zardari's reputation as a "king maker" in Pakistani politics comes with massive corruption accusations against him. Zardari also lacks Benazir Bhutto's charisma, which was a reason behind her immense popularity in Pakistan.
"Bilawal is intelligent but his political career has been scripted by his father and members of his team. He could revive his mother's party if he breaks free from his father's influence and takes charge of the PPP," Hasan Mujtaba, a New York-based Pakistani journalist, told DW.
Read more:Has Pakistan's Bhutto dynasty lost its political charm?
Crucial elections
The July 25 polls are not just crucial for Pakistan; they are important for the security situation in Afghanistan and South Asian geopolitics.
Apart from fixing the country's economic woes, the next government will have to deal with a number of complex regional issues. An international terror watchdogplaced Pakistan on its "gray list"in June for sponsoring militant groups. The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) could put the country on its "blacklist" in September. The consequences of such a move on Pakistan would be disastrous as it would cripple its economy.
The next government will have to allay the international community's concerns about terror financing and Islamist support. But some banned Islamist groups have already been given a free hand to contest the elections and hold rallies. Mainstream political parties are also getting into local alliances with these groups to win the vote.
US President Donald Trump's administration demands more cooperation from Islamabad to bring peace to Afghanistan. So far, Islamabad and Washington have been at loggerheads over the issue. The US nowreportedly seeks direct talks with the Taliban, something that would not go down well with Pakistani authorities, who want to secure their leverage on Af-Pak geopolitics.
The next government will either take a more confrontational course toward the US or will cooperate, and it depends on who forms the next government. Khan, a possible PM, has been very critical of US policies in Afghanistan and will likely take an aggressive stance.
China's multibillion-dollar initiative, the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), also needs a fresh start. There hasn't been much progress on the Beijing-funded project. There is resistance against CPEC from local groups in Pakistan that see it as China's design to exploit their resources. The West also has concerns about CPEC.
Read more:Pakistani minister: 'CPEC linked to civilian supremacy'
While Khan is likely to take a more conservative approach toward geopolitical issues, Sharif is expected to deal with them from a business-oriented perspective. Pakistan is at a crossroads and the July 25 vote will determine which path the country will take.

Title: Airstrike Kills 4 Haqqani Militants In Afghanistan - UrduPoint
Fahad Shabbir(@FahadShabbir)Published July 26, 2018 | 03:28 PM
Four militants of the Haqqani militant group were killed following an airstrike in Khost province, eastern Afghanistan on Wednesday, the Defense Ministry said Thursday.
KABUL, (APP - UrduPoint / Pakistan Point News - 26th Jul, 2018 ) :Fourmilitantsof the Haqqani militant group were killed following an airstrike in Khost province, easternAfghanistanon Wednesday, the Defense Ministry said Thursday.
"AnAfghanAir Force aircraft targeted a group of Haqqaniterroristnetwork in Spera district, Khost province, late Wednesday, killing four members of the network," the ministry said in a statement.

As a Taliban-linked group ofmilitants, theHaqqani networkis mostly operating in eastern provinces and capitalKabuland has been responsible for many high-profile attacks against security forces.
The network, which was designated as aterroristgroup by theUnited Statesin 2012, has yet to respond to the report.
Pakistan’s foreign policy on successful trajectory: Attaullah
PDMA issues alert about rains in most parts of KP from Thursday
Tragedies like Gaza won’t allow sustainable development: Asif
U.S. Ambassador Promotes Clean Energy and Climate Action During Lahore Visit
Qatar Emiri Naval Ship Alkhor Visits Karachi to Participate in Bilateral Exercis ..
Realme Note 60 launching soon: Segment’s first IP64 Protection Championing Dur ..
Justice Yahya Afridi issues dissenting note on reserved seats case
PM in New York to attend UNGA’s 79th session
Bushra Ansari criticizes viral singing style of Chahat Fateh Ali Khan
Currency Rate In Pakistan - Dollar, Euro, Pound, Riyal Rates On 24 September 202 ..
Today Gold Rate in Pakistan 24 September 2024
Imran Khan denounces propaganda, calls for justice, ceasefire in Palestine
Israel hits Beirut again in second day of strikes
Multiple arrests after controversial suicide pod used in Switzerland
World fears Israel-Hezbollah 'spiral of violence'
Pope offers refuge to Myanmar's jailed Suu Kyi: report
Lebanon says Israel strikes killed 558 people, 50 of them children
New Israeli strikes on Lebanon after 558 killed
France facing 'one of worst deficits' in its history: minister
Tropical Storm John hits Mexico's Pacific coast
Spanish premier vows new push against 'fake news'
Sri Lanka's new leader to call snap parliamentary polls
Singapore ex-minister convicted in rare graft trial
UK town catches Subbuteo fever
UrduPoint Network is the largest independent digital media house from Pakistan, catering the needs of its users since year 1997. We provide breaking news, Pakistani news, International news, Business news, Sports news, Urdu news and Live Urdu News
© 1997-2024 UrduPoint Network. All rights of the publication are reserved by UrduPoint.com. Reproduction without proper consent is not allowed.

Title: Pashto News and Current Affairs Channel | Khyber News
ISLAMABAD: The Supreme Court Practice and Procedure Amendment Act is facing legal challenges, with petitions filed in both the Supreme Court and the Sindh High Court. In the Supreme Court,…
RAWALPINDI: Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) has submitted an application to the deputy commissioner’s…
KARACHI: The driver of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) leader Haleem Adil Sheikh was…
QUETTA: Two police personnel were killed and one injured in an explosion…
GILGIT: Provincial Finance Minister Engineer Muhammad Ismail has stated that steps are…
WASHINGTON: The US officials believe that a ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas is unlikely to be reached before President Biden’s term ends in January, according to the Wall Street…
WASHINGTON: The United States has reiterated its opposition to Pakistan’s ballistic missile program. In a recent press briefing, US State Department spokesman Matthew Miller stated,…
The General Fire Service Directorate (GFSD) has closed 39 shops and warehouses across multiple governorates for violating fire safety regulations. These businesses were penalized for…
WASHINGTON: The US State Department imposed sanctions on a Chinese research institute and several companies for their involvement in supporting Pakistan’s ballistic missile program. This…
Pakistani drama star Javeria Abbasi recently celebrated a significant new chapter in her life by getting married, just months after news of her engagement emerged. The actress shared her happiness with fans on Instagram, posting a series of beautiful pictures from her intimate Nikah ceremony, accompanied by the caption, “We love a happily ever after.”…
SHARJAH: Afghanistan beat South Africa by 177 runs in the second ODI, clinching the series win. Rashid Khan celebrated his birthday with a remarkable five-wicket haul, while Rahmanullah Gurbaz contributed significantly with his seventh ODI…
SHARJAH: South Africa suffered a stunning collapse, recording its third-lowest total in one-day…
ISLAMABAD: Former national cricket team captain Younis Khan has voiced deep concern over…
Cristiano Ronaldo, the Portugal forward, has surpassed one billion followers across his social…
aSaif Group, a leading real estate company, hosted a two-day mega sales…
Khyber Newsis the Pashto news and current affairs satellite TV channel which is licensed by Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority. Khyber News is considered as the most trusted Pashto news channel around the world. Khyber News has become only trusted source of news and current affairs in Pashto language.
Get the latest news from Khyber News about Pakistan,Afghanistanand around the World.


By signing up, you agree to the our terms and ourPrivacy Policyagreement.
Type above and pressEnterto search. PressEscto cancel.

Title: Airstrike kills 4 Haqqani militants in Afghanistan - China.org.cn
视频播放位置
KABUL, July 26 (Xinhua) -- Four militants of the Haqqani militant group were killed following an airstrike in Khost province, eastern Afghanistan on Wednesday, the Defense Ministry said Thursday.
"An Afghan Air Force aircraft targeted a group of Haqqani terrorist network in Spera district, Khost province, late Wednesday, killing four members of the network," the ministry said in a statement.
As a Taliban-linked group of militants, the Haqqani network is mostly operating in eastern provinces and capital Kabul and has been responsible for many high-profile attacks against security forces.
The network, which was designated as a terrorist group by the United States in 2012, has yet to respond to the report. Enditem


Title: 
Airstrike kills 4 Haqqani militants in Afghanistan - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KABUL, July 26 (Xinhua) -- Four militants of the Haqqani militant group were killed following an airstrike in Khost province, eastern Afghanistan on Wednesday, the Defense Ministry said Thursday.
"An Afghan Air Force aircraft targeted a group of Haqqani terrorist network in Spera district, Khost province, late Wednesday, killing four members of the network," the ministry said in a statement.
As a Taliban-linked group of militants, the Haqqani network is mostly operating in eastern provinces and capital Kabul and has been responsible for many high-profile attacks against security forces.
The network, which was designated as a terrorist group by the United States in 2012, has yet to respond to the report.
KABUL, July 26 (Xinhua) -- Four militants of the Haqqani militant group were killed following an airstrike in Khost province, eastern Afghanistan on Wednesday, the Defense Ministry said Thursday.
"An Afghan Air Force aircraft targeted a group of Haqqani terrorist network in Spera district, Khost province, late Wednesday, killing four members of the network," the ministry said in a statement.
As a Taliban-linked group of militants, the Haqqani network is mostly operating in eastern provinces and capital Kabul and has been responsible for many high-profile attacks against security forces.
The network, which was designated as a terrorist group by the United States in 2012, has yet to respond to the report.
Copyright © 2000 - 2018 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.