Title: Talk to Taliban to End Terrorism in Afghanistan: Russia
To End Terrorism in Afghanistan, Russian Foreign Minister, Sergey Lavrov said that a dialogue for the peace process in must incorporate the Taliban, and other Regional Nations to find a lost-lasting solution.
Meanwhile, Afghanistan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MoFA) has confirmed that Russia is one of a vital part of the Kabul Peace Process.
“Russia is an important member of the Kabul Process and is one of the good friends of Afghanistan, besides being a global super-power. The final declaration issued by the foreign ministers of India, the Peoples’ Republic of China and the Russian Federation was in the interest of Afghanistan,” said the spokesman for Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Addressing a meeting in India, he said the US strategy for defeating terrorism in Afghanistan was not workable as the hard approach via the military process for the past 15 years had provided futile and did not reduce terrorism in Afghanistan.
ICC Prosecutor to Investigate Afghan War Crimes
“You cannot resolve a problem without having every stakeholder on the table. The government of Afghanistan, the Taliban, and those who can influence the situation need to sit together and find a political solution,” said Lavrov
On US Allegations, Lavrov said that “Never ever was there has been any evidence that Russia supported or armed the Taliban in Afghanistan. Russia has reached-out to the Taliban only for two reasons: When Russian citizens or our Allies were in trouble, and when we wanted to persuade the Taliban for negotiating the peace process.
US Drone Strike : Four Haqqani Militants killed in Pakistan
He also emphasized that the fight against terrorism in Afghanistan cannot be segregated from the fight against drug trade which funds the terrorist activities both in Afghanistan and other parts.
“The recent American strategy in Afghanistan, which highlights military resolution to solve the Afghan problem did not focus on restraining the drug production, which has been accepted as the biggest source of funding the Taliban.
Afghan President Ghani Refuses to join CPEC, without Access to India
Some Afghan critics have claimed that the US has no intention to stabilize Afghanistan. However, the Afghan government says that the peace agreement recently signed between the Afghan Government and the Hizb-e-Islami group under Gulbuddin Hekmatyar symbolizes the commitment of the Afghan government towards long-lasting peace in Afghanistan.
Copyright ©2021. The EurAsian Times. All rights reserved

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: The rise of a new threat in Afghanistan
The growing political instability and weak security apparatus in Afghanistan is encouraging the Islamic State – or Daesh – to spread its tentacles and wrest more territories in the country’s northern and eastern provinces.
Though Afghan President Dr Ashraf Ghani is claiming that the network is ‘on the run’, in reality the group – after having had to face the onslaughts of both Taliban militias and government forces in Afghanistan’s eastern provinces – is now moving up fast to the northern provinces. This is now stirring security fears in the bordering Central Asians Republics, popularly known as ‘Russia’s soft underbelly’.
The rising fears of Daesh gaining an advantage are not just random perceptions or gossip by men on the streets. This fear and imminent threats is disturbing the Afghans quite visibly – both in the streets and in power circles in Kabul.
Talking to a delegation of visiting Pakistani journalists at his residence in the highly secured Wazir Akbar Khan locality in Kabul, Dr Abdullah Abdullah – the chief executive officer in the National Unity Government – minced no words when sharing his own worries about the increasing footprints of the terror network in the northern provinces of Afghanistan.
“No doubt [the] Taliban militia is fighting against Islamic State in eastern provinces [but strangely] both are united and acting as one [group] in the northern provinces of Afghanistan”. This from the second most powerful man in the Afghanistan’s Unity Government.
Dr Abdullah was not playing naïve at all while talking to Pakistani media persons about the growing threats posed by Daesh. He was definitely aware that his senior partner in the NUG, Afghan President Dr Ashraf Ghani, categorically stated just a day earlier that “the terror network [Daesh] is on the run” and “nine districts of the country [where the group had hideouts] have been cleared of Daesh.” The president had said this while speaking at a ceremony in connection with handing over control of border police to the Ministry of Defence in Kabul.
Dr Ghani’s claims of eliminating the Daesh network came in response to persistence accusations levelled by leaders of the political opposition in Afghanistan and by members of parliament against [certain] elements in the ruling administration that they have been supporting Daesh in the Khorasan province in the country’s eastern areas.
“When the [military] operations begin, the Taliban are being bombed while the Daesh fighters are not bombed”, Ahmad Ali Hazrat – the chief of the Provincial Council of Nangarhar – was quoted by the media. He was essentially accusing the [NUG] government of supporting Daesh/Islamic State locally known as the Islamic State of Khorasan (ISKP).
Astonishingly, at the moment – as stated by a senior Afghan political leader – the fears of Daesh growing strong are ‘omnipresent’. These fears seem to have fast replaced similar threats that were earlier posed by the Taliban militias.
Although President Ghani claims to have gained successes against ISKP in Afghanistan’s eastern provinces bordering Pakistan, those who know the security environment believe that out of a total of 34 provinces of the country, 16 are dominated by Daesh. According to these observers, the Islamic State is taking advantage of the overall deteriorating security situation across the country. Taliban insurgents are gaining control of more and more areas, pushing back the Afghan security forces to the districts and provincial centres.
With the increasing influence of Daesh in the country’s east and north, the Afghans are becoming more and more sceptical about the role of the US-led Nato allies and their own government vis-a-vis the terror group.
Previously, it was former Afghan president Hamid Karzai who had been publically accusing the United States of financing and supporting the Daesh network in Afghanistan after transporting planeloads of the group’s activists to the country’s eastern provinces. Now more political leaders, jihadi commanders and political analysts are joining the bandwagon of the former president and questioning the role of the US-led Nato forces and the NUG in the fight against Daesh.
A senior political leader from the Paktika province who is also a member of the parliamentary committee on international relations says that he had proof of US forces supporting the terror network both financially and in providing transportation from one area to another. He claims that the majority of his colleagues in the Afghan parliament suspect American efforts in the fight against the ISKP.
Interestingly, besides parliamentarians and leaders of the political opposition, even common citizens in Afghanistan are talking about ‘unmarked helicopters’ – which many Afghans believe were used to transport Daesh activists from the east to the north. They also wonder about the sources of what seems to an abundant supply of money to the terror network.
A senior leader of the Unity Government also confided that Russia is very disturbed by the increasing footprints of Daesh in the northern parts of Afghanistan. According to him, “We have reports [that] Russia is arming local armed [former mujahideen] groups to fight against the Taliban and Daesh duo in the northern provinces bordering Uzbekistan and Tajikistan”.
Mirwais Yasini, the deputy speaker of the Wolesi Jirga from the Nangarhar province in the east, while downplaying the accusations against the NUG and the US supporting the terror group, said the group is not only increasing its footholdsin more areas but that its supporters and activists are also increasing.
Yasini, who contested for the office of president against Hamid Karzai, says that the majority of the Hizb-e-Islami activists, who were against the peace deal of their leader Gulbaddin Hekmatyar with the government, have joined the terror group. He fears that the hardcore fighters of the Taliban militia, who are currently dead set against any peace negotiations with the Kabul government, will also definitely join the terror group in case the militia’s leadership strikes any agreement with the government.
According to Yasini, the current government in Afghanistan is seen as incompetent, and Ghani proved as a weak leader, with the foreign forces mostly unable to read the writing on the wall.
The instability and deteriorating security environment can be gauged from the fact that parliamentary elections in Afghanistan have been getting delayed for the last two years consecutively. “We have planned to hold parliamentary elections in mid of next year InshaAllah”, says Dr Abdullah. Following that immediately by saying that: “When we say ‘InshaAllah’, Western leaders believe we are not serious in doing the job.” Like many Afghans, Dr Abdullah himself doesn’t seem sure if the government will be able to conduct the elections or not.
There was a time when foreigners would move around in Kabul – in armoured vehicles, of course. Now, though, the movement of foreign nationals is completely restricted to their official compounds or embassies. At a dinner at Pakistan House Kabul, we heard Western diplomats saying that the situation has become so worst that a number of countries have totally restricted the movement of their diplomatic staff in Kabul.
The writer is an Islamabad-based
journalist.
Email: hasan.khyber@gmail.com
Scheme overlooks pressing need to address deep-rooted inequalities tied to caste, gender, class, and ethnicity
Making a flag out of the veil is a perpetual theme of Tappa, a genre of Pashto poetry
Pakistan has seen minimal improvement, languishing in a state of economic stagnation
Pakistani politics is full of twists and turns like a smash-hit soap opera
Majority Hindu community increasingly believes that such violence is morally justified under this ideology
Doing the same thing and expecting a different result is futile
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: Indian Companies to Begin CASA-1000 Construction in Afghanistan – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
Afghan authorities say work should begin in the coming weeks.
Two Indian companies withcontractsto construct power transmission lines in Afghanistan are expected to begin work in the coming weeks. The infrastructure is a necessary node in the CASA-1000 project, which aims to bring 1,300 megawatts (MW) of electricity from Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan into Afghanistan and Pakistan.
In MayAfghan authorities said they’d selected an Indian company and that work would begin once the procurement process was finished and the agreements finalized.In August, Afghan authorities said the project would take three years to complete, pushing operation of CASA-1000 into at least 2020.
Afghanistan is slated to receive 300 MW of Central Asian electricity with the remaining 1,000 MW continuing on to energy-starved Pakistan. Kabul is supposed to receive $50 million in transit fees annually, as well. The project, therefore, not only serves as an important facet of Afghanistan’s management of rising domestic electricity demand but also as a source of income.
The project has four major components: a 500 kV AC transmission line from Datka, in Kyrgyzstan, to Sughd, in Tajikistan; a 1300 megawatt AC-DC Convertor Station at Sangtuda, Tajikistan; a 750 kilometer High Voltage DC line from Sangtuda to Nowshera in Pakistan, via Afghanistan, and a 1,300 megawatt DC-AC Convertor Station at Nowshera.
“Of the four countries, Afghanistan is the first country which has wrapped up procurement works for the project; we have completed these works six months before the deadline,” Amanullah Ghalib, chairman Da Afghanistan Breshna Sherkat (DABS), said recently, according toTolonews.
CASA-1000 is not without its risks: financial, security, and political.
The CASA-1000 project is made financially possible by the World Bank, which estimated last year that the project wouldcost $1.17 billion, though that number has grown since the project wasfirst floated.Tolonewsreported that, according to Energy and Water Minister Abdul Basir Azimi, the construction phase of the project in Afghanistan would cost $404 million, 80 percent of which would be funded by the World Bank and the rest by Afghanistan. Such international backing has made the project more likely to continue, but security and politics threaten to change its character or derail the project entirely.Tolonewsalso reported Afghan authorities as saying the project was worth$2.1 billion. (Which project cost figure is correct is unclear from available information).
As noted above, the project area stretches across seven Afghan provinces from Tajikistan to Pakistan. Looking at the map provided by the project’swebsite, the Afghan portion goes through several troubled spots, including Kunduz and Nangarhar. In September 2015, Kunduz city wasseized by the Taliban;byOctober they’d been expelledbut the province remainscontested. Nangarhar, on the other hand, has become the locus of Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) activity in Afghanistan. In April, the United States dropped one of its largest non-nuclear bombs, the GBU-43/B Massive Ordnance Air Blast (aka the Mother of All Bombs or MOAB) on an ISKP tunnel complex in Nangarhar’s Achin district.
With Islamic State territory shrinking in Iraq and Syria over the past several months, analysts have suggested that ISIS fighters, squeezed out of the Middle East, may find their way into Afghanistan. Recentreports of French ISIS fighters in Afghanistanwould seem to support this theory. An influx of new (and experienced) militants will not make constructing development projects any easier.
Then there’s politics. While the World Bank envisions the project as the first step toward creating the “Central Asia-South Asia Regional Electricity Market (CASAREM),” it seems to have crossed minds in Islamabad that Kabul could be circumvented.
In summer 2016, a rumor filtered throughPakistani mediathat Afghanistan was going to “abandon its share” of the CASA-1000 electricity. The source of the rumor was a comment made by Pakistan’s water and power minister, Khawaja Muhammad Asif, at a protocol signing ceremony in Tajikistan that there was “weak demand” in Afghanistan.
It would seem, from Kabul’s progress on the technical aspects of the project, that Islamabad spoke too soon. Afghan officials still cite Afghanistan as drawing 300 MW from the project.
The selection of Indian companies further underscores India’s growing role in Afghanistan.
While tense relations between Kabul and Islamabad make projects like CASA-1000 more difficult, both have an overarching interest in this particular project’s completion. That doesn’t mean it will be completed on time or within budget, though, and the facts on the ground — Afghanistan’s security situation — could easily kick back the timetable by years or derail the project entirely.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: Insidious plot - The Statesman

The trends are hideous even before 2018 unfolds. A year that was marked by horrfying, almost unspeakable, atrocities in Afghanistan,…
Editorial |December 30, 2017 10:09 pm
Representational Image
(Photo: Getty Images)
The trends are hideous even before 2018 unfolds. A year that was marked by horrfying, almost unspeakable, atrocities in Afghanistan, is ending with another wave of butchery, one that is testament to the intra-Islamic strife and no less crucially to the ISIS struggle for dominance over the Taliban. As in several other storm-centres, it has been an offensive against innocents. According to the UN, many children were likely to be among those killed in Thursday’s bombing because families had gathered at the centre to mark the National Day. No fewer than 41 people were killed and more than 80 injured in an attack on a Shia cultural centre and news agency that share a building in Kabul. Palpably enough, the ISIS has struck in the heart of the Afghan capital; the bombings were the latest in a particularly bloody year for Afghanistan, even by the standards of a country inured to decades of conflict. Going by the “breaking news” presented by the Amaaq news agency of ISIS, the cultural centre was targeted by the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), the name of the Caliphate’s Afghan affiliate as it was funded by Iran and used to propagate Shia beliefs.It was, therefore, a complex cocktail that ignited Thursday’s mayhem in Kabul. It was also the latest sectarian attack in a capital that had once been relatively immune to such violence. There have been civilian deaths in Kabul over four decades of civil war; yet until the emergence of ISIS very few could be attributed to Sunni-Shia tensions, that have all too frequently turned mortal from Iraq to Pakistan.
A group with a strong sectarian agenda now appears to have outstripped the home-grown Taliban in perpetrating violence in Kabul. Thursday’s butchery is said to be the seventh suicide bombing in Kabul since October, killing a total of 130 people. This has made ISKP a larger threat in Kabul than Taliban. Indeed, the shift in the frequency of the attacks, from the group that has led the insurgency for nearly two decades to the relatively new ISIS is a fresh and forbidding challenge to the Afghan authorities.

Clearly, ISIS is trying to replace the Taliban by challenging its dominance and the latest offensive can be contextualised with the warning advanced by the United Nations in November that a new trend of attacks on Shia Muslims and places of worship had begun since 2016, when the pattern of attacks against Shia worshippers emerged. And almost invariably, the ISIS has claimed responsibility. Prior to that, the only major sectarian attack documented by the UN was a bombing at a religious festival in 2011, claimed by the Pakistani militant group Laskhar-e-Jhangvi. The insidious plot thickens.

Advertisement

Advertisement
Pakistan reported three new cases of polio in the country's Balochistan, Sindh, and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa provinces, bringing the total number of the disease-infected children to 21 since the beginning of this year, the health ministry said in a statement on Saturday.
The Congress chief alleged that PM Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah were generating “jumlas” to mislead the people and get votes.
Hitting out at the BJP leadership, Mukesh Agnihotri, Deputy Chief Minister of Himachal Pradesh, on Friday said that Pakistan sponsored terrorism has revived in the peaceful Jammu region and the BJP government has failed to control it.
Advertisement

PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENT, ALWAYS IN SESSION
AddressThe Statesman Net Private LimitedStatesman House, First Floor 148 Barakhamba RoadNew Delhi – 110001(+91) (011) 41605781, 41605958
© 2023, thestatesman.com | All rights reserved

Title: EASO Country of Origin Information Report: Afghanistan Individuals targeted by armed actors in the conflict - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
European Asylum Support Office
Introduction
This report was drafted by COI officers from the COI sector of the Information and Analysis Unit in the European Asylum Support Office (EASO). To cover all topic areas of the Terms of Reference, EASO created two COI reports: One covering targeting directly related to the armed actors in the conflict and another for targeting linked to broader societal issues.
This report covers topics on individuals targeted by armed actors within the context of the conflict in Afghanistan. This report is written in conjunction with a report on targeting of individuals in society titled, EASO COI Report - Afghanistan: Individuals targeted under societal and legal norms (2).
Terms of Reference
The report aims to provide relevant information for the assessment of international protection status determination (PSD, including refugee status and subsidiary protection).
The terms of reference of this report were defined by EASO based on discussions held and input received from policy experts in EU+ countries3 and UNHCR within the framework of a Country Guidance Network pilot exercise to develop a Country Guidance Note on Afghanistan. The report was drafted for the purpose of developing a chapter on the application of Refugee Status and Subsidiary Protection (a and b).
On targeting by insurgents, this report primarily focusses on targeting by the Taliban, with a separate subchapter for the Islamic State in Khorasan Province group (ISKP) and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU). These three groups are deemed the main insurgent groups active in Afghanistan, and their targeting to some extend is representative of most of the insurgent targeting taking place in Afghanistan.
On the side of the (pro-)government actors in the conflict, this report looks into their conduct towards those suspected of being an anti-government element, and towards journalists and humanitarian workers.
Terms of Reference for this report can be found in Annex II: Terms of Reference.
Methodology
The information is a result of desk research of public, specialised paper-based and electronic sources until 27 November 2017. In addition, during the research, EASO researchers conducted extensive interviews with the following sources:
 Abubakar Siddique, a senior correspondent specializing in coverage of Afghanistan and Pakistan, and the editor of RFE/RL's ‘Gandhara’ website. In addition to his reporting, Siddique speaks frequently at prominent Western think tanks and has contributed articles, chapters, and research papers to a range of publications. Siddique is also the author of The Pashtun Question: The Unresolved Key to the Future of Pakistan and Afghanistan (2014).
To verify whether the writers respected the EASO COI Report Methodology, a peer review was carried out by COI specialists from the departments listed as reviewers in the Acknowledgements section. In addition, a review of the report was carried out by Dr. Neamat Nojumi, a scholar on Central and Southwest Asia and senior policy analyst on Afghanistan. The Human Rights Service at the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) reviewed all content. All comments made by the reviewers were taken into consideration and most of them were implemented in the final draft of this report. EASO performed the final quality review and edited the text. This quality process led to the inclusion of some additional information, in response to feedback received during the respective reviews, until 27 November 2017.
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: ISIS: Relocating in Afghanistan | Dr Huma Baqai | New Age Islam | Islamic News and Views | Moderate Muslims & Islam


By Dr Huma Baqai
December 16, 2017
ISIS (Daesh) is an acronym for so-called Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. It gained prominence after it rapidly captured large territories in both these countries and declared a caliphate in 2014. The group controlled more than 34,000 square miles of territory stretching from the Mediterranean coast to south of Baghdad. Perhaps the only terror organization that had land and financial holdings and fought back tooth and nail for to maintain territorial control. The campaign to eradicate the Islamic State took more than three years and about 25,000 coalition airstrikes. ISIS’ rise and the world’s military response led to the displacement of more than 3.2 million people, according to the United Nations.
Iraq and Syria have officially been liberated from the clutches of ISIS. A third of Iraq was under ISIS control for three years. Which came to an end in July 2017. In the same month Russia claimed that its forces had destroyed all ISIS strong hold in Syria; following a bombing campaign. ISIS has lost land but it has not surrendered its arms. It is also actively looking for land holdings in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Central Asia to revive the idea of Islamic Caliphate. ISIS has blatantly claimed responsibility over the past year for several major attacks in Afghanistan. Its presence now is much more entrenched then two years ago when it was trying to establishing itself in the country.
The urge in the ISIS camps to find a tangible base is real. The operations from existing bases have been curtailed. Surviving militants are fleeing Syria and Iraq, with Afghanistan becoming the most probable foothold for it. Around 200 fighters, some from Syria joined the ISIS afflicted Jowzjan province of Afghanistan in November 2017.
They are establishing both military presence, and social control, collecting taxes and recruiting men, women and children said Clinton Forrest from the Washington based Institute for the Study of War (ISW). They are flocking in from Tajiskistan, Chechnya and even France and Sudan. No push back or resistance mechanism is in place. They are free to recruit from towns and villages, seemingly undeterred by the fall of the physical Caliphate. Moreover, many groups fighting under the ISIS flag are also active in the Nangarhar Province and in the north of Afghanistan.
According to the Pentagon, ISIS number fewer than 1000 in Afghanistan. But the growing numbers and presence of foreign fighters among them indicated that ISIS “seeks to create an external operations node for new waves of global attacks (ISW).
However, Aymenn Jawad Al-Tamimi, an expert on Jihadist groups while commenting on ISIS presence, which also includes foreigner fighters in Afghanistan. Categorically said, “the groups natural home is Iraq and Syria, but many of the fighters are either escaping or moving to other battle field for ISIS, where they might prove more useful. General John Nicholson the head of US forces in Afghanistan, has vowed the group will be annihilated. Washington had dropped the “Mother of all Bombs” on ISIS in Nangarhar in the spring of 2017.
Unfortunately, the number of fighters is growing, testify villagers, and there are no signs of pro-government forces in the district. “There is no government here” says a local. Hamid Karzai, in his recent interview with Russia today said that, “ISIS in Afghanistan was proliferating under the very nose of American Security apparatus. Speculations are that America may use ISIS elements against Taliban and against the interests of regional adversaries and their allies.”
If this is true, it is a disaster for both Afghanistan and Pakistan. Pitching one evil against another only complicates the conflict matrix and resolves nothing. Pakistan as is has serious concerns, with regard to Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan and patronization of Balochistan militants against it from Afghanistan territory.
Security challenges in Afghanistan are proving to be insurmountable for Americans. The upswing in Taliban attacks continued while Tillerson was in Afghanistan on his official visit to South Asia. ISIS and Taliban are both Sunni terrorist groups, have an uneasy relationship, having fought each other till a truce was reached to fight the common enemy. However, this could break any time. 2018 the security situation in Afghanistan may become more precarious, having serious implications for Pakistan and the region.
Dr Huma Baqai is Associate Professor, Dept of Social Sciences & Liberal Arts at IBA Karachi.
Source: pakobserver.net/isis-relocating-afghanistan/
URL:https://newageislam.com/war-terror/isis-relocating-afghanistan/d/113587
Sultan Shahin, E-22, Indra Prastha Apts., 114, I. P. Extension, New Delhi – 110092
Follow us to stay in the loop on what's new with New Age Islam.

Title: No title found


Title: 
	      Latest ISIS Attack In Afghanistan Is Bad News For US Effort | 
	  The Daily Caller
	
Department of Defense photo by U.S. Army Pfc. Pedro Amador
Islamic State gunmen opened fire on Afghanistan’s main intelligence agency building Monday in the latest troubling sign of a deteriorating security situation in the country.
The ISIS gunmen werearmedwith RPG’s and other light weapons, and were able to engage in a lengthy firefight with the security guards. Afghan officials noted that ISIS used a signature militant move in Afghanistan of wearing false police uniforms to infiltrate the area. Insider and imposter attacks are a near mainstay for Afghan and U.S. troops in the fight against the Taliban and ISIS.
The attackdemonstratesthe continued ability of ISIS to use its small safe haven in Afghanistan to mount high profile attacks in the capital of Kabul. ISIS has been relentlessly hammered by U.S. and Afghan security forces but continues to remain a threat inside the country.
The main U.S. fight in Afghanistan is not against ISIS but thegrowingTaliban insurgency. The U.S. will adopt a conditions — not timeline-based — approach in Afghanistan, with an overall strategy to push Taliban militants to the negotiating table with the Afghan national government, Trump declared in an Aug. 21 address. The Taliban, however, have little reason to negotiate after banner years in the Afghan war. The group controls more territory than at any time since the U.S. invasion in 2001, along with nearly one-third of the Afghan population.
WATCH:
Follow Saagar Enjeti on Twitter
Send tips tosaagar@dailycallernewsfoundation.org.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contactlicensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org.


TRENDING
©2024 The Daily Caller, Inc.
The Daily Caller | 1775 Eye Street NW | Suite 1150-290 | Washington, DC 20006

PREMIUM ARTICLE: Subscribe To Keep Reading
Continue Reading
Already have an account?Login

By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use


By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use

By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use


By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use

By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use


By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use

By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use

By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use
$3.00
A Month (Billed Annually)
Cancel Anytime
$8.25
A Month (Billed Annually)
Cancel Anytime
$9.95
A Month
Cancel Anytime
$12.50
A Month (Billed Annually)
Cancel Anytime
Honor Our Heroes Program: Verify your Active Military, Veteran, or First Responder Status for Additional Discounts
Readers,
Instead of sucking up to the political and corporate powers that dominate America, The Daily Caller is fighting for you — our readers. We humbly ask you to consider joining us in this fight.
Now that millions of readers are rejecting the increasingly biased and even corrupt corporate media and
joining us daily, there are powerful forces lined up to stop us: the old guard of the news media hopes
to marginalize us; the big corporate ad agencies want to deprive us of revenue and put us out of business;
senators threaten to have our reporters arrested for asking simple questions; the big tech platforms want
to limit our ability to communicate with you; and the political party establishments feel threatened by our
independence.
We don't complain -- we can't stand complainers -- but we do call it how we see it. We have a fight on our
hands, and it's intense. We need your help to smash through the big tech, big media and big government blockade.
We're the insurgent outsiders for a reason: our deep-dive investigations hold the powerful to account.
Our original videos undermine their narratives on a daily basis. Even our insistence on having fun infuriates
them -- because we won’t bend the knee to political correctness.
One reason we stand apart is because we are not afraid to say we love America. We love her with every fiber of
our being, and we think she's worth saving from today’s craziness.
Help us save her.
A second reason we stand out is the sheer number of honest responsible reporters we have helped train. We have
trained so many solid reporters that they now hold prominent positions at publications across the political
spectrum. Hear a rare reasonable voice at a place like CNN? There’s a good chance they were trained at Daily
Caller. Same goes for the numerous Daily Caller alumni dominating the news coverage at outlets such as Fox News,
Newsmax, Daily Wire and many others.
Simply put, America needs solid reporters fighting to tell the truth or we will never have honest elections or a
fair system. We are working tirelessly to make that happen and we are making a difference.
Since 2010, The Daily Caller has grown immensely. We're in the halls of Congress. We're in the Oval Office.
And we're in up to 20 million homes every single month. That's 20 million Americans like you who are impossible
to ignore.
We can overcome the forces lined up against all of us. This is an important mission but we can’t do it unless you —
the everyday Americans forgotten by the establishment — have our back.
Please consider becoming a Daily Caller Patriot today, and help us keep doing work that holds politicians,
corporations and other leaders accountable. Help us thumb our noses at political correctness. Help us train a new
generation of news reporters who will actually tell the truth. And help us remind Americans everywhere that there
are millions of us who remain clear-eyed about our country's greatness.
In return for membership, Daily Caller Patriots will be able to read The Daily Caller without any of the ads that
we have long used to support our mission. We know the ads drive you crazy. They drive us crazy too. But we need
revenue to keep the fight going. If you join us, we will cut out the ads for you and put every Lincoln-headed cent
we earn into amplifying our voice, training even more solid reporters, and giving you the ad-free experience and
lightning fast website you deserve.
Patriots will also be eligible for Patriots Only content, newsletters, chats and live events with our reporters
and editors. It's simple: welcome us into your lives, and we'll welcome you into ours.
We can save America together.
Become a Daily Caller Patriot today.
Neil Patel
Internal promotions, affiliate content, recommended content and spam will be embedded in their paid
content and players may still be included on the site.
CONTENT
CONTINUE READING FOR$120$1
ALSO, ENJOY THE MANY BENEFITS OF PATRIOTS MEMBERSHIP

Title: Will Afghanistan bear the brunt and become ISIS' stronghold after terror group's 'loss' in Iraq and Syria? - IBTimes India
Even though the terror group Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) may not have the kind of control it once did in these two nations, it continues to threaten the rest of the world, the latest targets being the US, the UK, France and several European nations.
The Iraqi government on Sunday, December 10, announced that the ISIS terrorists had been flushed out of the country and that it was "totally liberated." Before that, Russia's General Staff had made similar claims about ISIS in Syria and said that all the group's units had been destroyed. So now that ISIS has reportedly lost control in both Iraq and Syria, what's next?
Nikita Mendkovich, a political analyst at the Russian International Affairs Council, believes that Iraq and Syria's victory puts Afghanistan in a vulnerable position. The South Asian nation has seen decades of instability and troubled times, thanks to Taliban, and this might not be over for Afghanistan just yet.
Mendkovichexplained to RTthat surviving ISIS terrorists will find it easy to sneak into Afghanistan and this might make it the "most probable" new foothold for the terror group. "There has been long time instability in Afghanistan and a high level of terrorist activity in the context of the weakness of the governmental security agencies," he said.
Afghanistan already has several groups fighting in favour of ISIS and they might just join hands with the terrorists fleeing from these Middle Eastern nations. "Currently, the groups fighting under the Islamic State flag are active in many regions of Afghanistan, including the Nangarhar Province and in some northern areas, like Kunduz," Mendkovich added.
He also spoke about how ISIS funded its activities andtold RTthat while the group had access to oil fields in the Middle Eastern countries, Afghanistan could be beneficial to the terror group due to the money it makes from "drug trafficking, illegal extraction of semi and precious stones as well as racket [defrauding] of humanitarian projects in the region, financed by Western sponsors."
Apart from Afghanistan, Mendkovich believes that the migrant ISIS terrorists may also end up in European nations, mostly France, Germany and Austria. He notes that here they may be able to "live without papers" and without any interference from authorities.
Meanwhile, France also seems to be one of the targets of the terror group this holiday season. ISIS has threatened to attack Paris on New Year's Day in a brand new digitally created propaganda poster, which shows revellers in front of the Arc de Triomphe and the image is coated with a knife dripping with blood. The caption on the poster reads: "We will make New Year's Day hell," reported the Daily Mail.
The group's propaganda department the Wafa Media Foundation has been coming up with several such posters in the recent past, encouraging lone-wolf attacks in the west.
ISIS posts disturbing propaganda image threatening an attack on New York at Christmas#MondayMotivation#CyberMonday2017#TuesdayThoughts#TuesdayMotivation##GivingTuesday#GiveEmMoabhttps://t.co/6DDZJG1Z1Xvia@MailOnlinepic.twitter.com/aXdWriNIUP
This threat comes days after ISIS warned of a Christmas attack in NYC. At the time, the terrorists had released a poster that shows Santa Claus on a roof of a building overlooking the Times Square. Next to Santa is a box of dynamite and the caption reads: "We meet at Christmas in New York... soon."
ISIS has released a few other posters as well, in which it threatens to attack London's Regent Street and Paris' Eiffel Tower, both decked up in Christmas lights. The posters also show a crowd of revellers at Christmas markets in various places in UK, France and Germany and carry the caption: "Soon on your holidays," written in English, French and German. ISIS also seems to be aiming to attack the Vatican in Rome and one of the posters shows a terrorist armed with a rocket launcher overlooking the St Peter's Square in the Vatican.

Title: MSN


Title: Terrorist Violence Escalates Across Afghanistan And Pakistan : NPR
By
Samantha Raphelson
Security forces guard the site of a clash between gunmen and security forces in Kabul on Monday. Gunmen stormed a partially constructed building near an intelligence training center, triggering a gun battle with security forces as detonations and shooting reverberated from the area.Massoud Hossaini/APhide caption
Security forces guard the site of a clash between gunmen and security forces in Kabul on Monday. Gunmen stormed a partially constructed building near an intelligence training center, triggering a gun battle with security forces as detonations and shooting reverberated from the area.
Deadly attacks in Afghanistan and Pakistan are highlighting the escalation of the longest foreign war in U.S. history as American and Afghan forces continue to fight a growing presence of ISIS and Taliban insurgents in the region.
The recent violence comes as President Trump delivers a speech on Monday officially outlining his national security strategy. ISIS claimed responsibility for attacks in Kabul and Quetta, Pakistan, in the past two days, while a Taliban attackkilled 11 police officersin Helmand Province on Sunday.
Michael Kugelman, deputy director of the Asia Program at the Woodrow Wilson Center, visited the region last month andtellsHere & Now'sLisa Mullinsit is "one of the most volatile regions in the world."
"Given that the chief U.S. interest in South Asia is stability, the fact that you have rampant instability throughout much of Afghanistan and much of Pakistan as well suggests U.S. interests are very much imperiled in a part of the world where lest we forget, America has been fighting its longest-ever foreign war for the last 17 years," he says.
ISIS fighters launched their attack in the Afghan capital on Monday with a car bomb and rocket-propelled grenades before storming a building near an intelligence training center, according to the Associated Press. Afghan security forces fatally shot the three gunmen before there were any casualties.
On the other side of the border, two ISIS suicide bombers on Monday killed nine people in a Quetta church and wounded 60 others.
An ISIS affiliatemanaged to formin Afghanistan despite the U.S. military's sustained on-the-ground presence in the country, the Associated Press reports:
A powerful IS affiliate has emerged in Afghanistan in recent years that is largely made up of disgruntled former Taliban insurgents. The group is not as large or well-entrenched as the Taliban, but has carried out a number of deadly attacks, mainly targeting minority Shiites and security forces.
IS has also clashed with the Taliban. The two groups are fiercely divided over ideology, tactics and leadership.
Iranian Intelligence Minister Mahmoud Alavi warned last week that ISIS has begun to shift its focus into Afghanistan, Pakistan and Central Asia, following its rapid loss of territory in Iraq and Syria.
"ISIS has lost land, but has not surrendered its arms, and is looking for land in Afghanistan, Pakistan and Central Asia in order to, in this way, revive the idea of the Islamic caliphate," he said.
Meanwhile, the Taliban has gained control or is fighting for dominance inmore than 40 percentof Afghanistan's districts, which is 3 percent higher than six months ago, according to a report from the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, or SIGAR.
"Helmand is one of the main concerns and has a lot of problems," Afghan Maj. Gen. Wali Mohammad Ahmadzaitold NPR in November. "One of the main problems is poppy cultivation and trade and trafficking."
Afghanistan is thetop opium producerin the world. The drug trade finances the Taliban and contributes to corruption among the Afghan military, politicians and the police.
As NPR's Tom Bowman reported, Iran has helped move weapons and Taliban fighters into Afghanistan, while Pakistan for years has allowed safe zones for the Taliban and other insurgent groups, such as the Haqqani network. The Pakistani government also denies that ISIS has an organized presence in the country, despite several attacks in recent years.
Kugelman says extremist groups serve Pakistan's interests by keeping its enemy, India, at bay in Afghanistan.
"Pakistan worries that India will try to use Afghanistan as a space to plan nefarious acts inside Pakistan," he says. "A terrorist group like the Haqqani network serves as a useful asset to the Pakistanis because it helps promote their interests by minimizing or reducing the likelihood that India could deepen its presence inside Afghanistan."
Part of President Trump's strategy in Afghanistan includes an increase in airstrikes against the Taliban, which has come at a cost. Civilian deaths due to strikesrose by 52 percentin the first nine months of 2017, according to SIGAR, though the U.S. military has disputed those numbers.
Trump has also increased troop levels to nearly 14,000, betting that fighting the Taliban harder will force the group into peace talks, Kugelman says.
"That's very risky because we've tried it before ... when we had more than 100,000 U.S. troops on the ground during the height of the U.S. troop surge in 2010," he says. "Didn't work then, so I don't see why it would necessarily work now."
Sponsor Message
Become an NPR sponsor

Title: ISIS could be preparing to form new home in Afghanistan after losing war in Iraq and Syria | World | News | Express.co.uk
GETTY
The terrorist organisation no longer have a physical home after Iraq and Syria were officially liberated from its clutches in the past month.
Now, Nikita Mendkovich says Afghanistan may be the next place that the extremists try to set up home.
He said: “There has been long time instability in Afghanistan and a high level of terrorist activity in the context of the weakness of the governmental security agencies.
“Currently, the groups fighting under the Islamic State flag are active in many regions of Afghanistan, including the Nangarhar Province and in some northern areas, like Kunduz.”
The country has struggled to rid themselves of jihadis and have been involved in a civil war against extremism for years.
US troops have been present in Afghanistan since 2001 to try and help bring peace and security in the region.
Around 200 fighters, some from Syria, joined the ISIS-affiliated Jowzjan province of Afghanistan in November increasing the chances of an attempt to relocate to the country.
However, Afghanistan is not the only place that the analyst said ISIS were looking to infiltrate.
Mr Mendkovich told RT: “There’s a risk of withdrawal of separate militant units to Libya and Egypt, where there are regions with instability, especially, in Libya, where the civil war is, in fact, ongoing.”
We use your sign-up to provide content in ways you've consented to and to improve our understanding of you. This may include adverts from us and 3rd parties based on our understanding. You can unsubscribe at any time. Read ourPrivacy Policy
“They can join the ranks of groups associating themselves with IS and fight on their side.”
On December 10 Iraq’s Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi said the war against ISIS in their country was over – three years after IS militants seized a third of the country’s territory.
It was just one week earlier that Russia said that its forces had destroyed all ISIS strongholds in Syria following a bombing campaign.
GETTY
Colonel-General Sergei Rudskoi, head of the general staff’s operations, said: “The mission to defeat bandit units of the Islamic State terrorist organisation on the territory of Syria has been accomplished.”
Iraq and Syria were seen as the axis of the ISIS “caliphate”.
At present it is not clear if they will once again try to form a physical home somewhere else in the Middle East or whether they will only operate underground.
Sorry, we are unable to accept comments about this article at the moment. However, you will find some great articles which you can comment on right now in ourComment section.
SEARCH
CONNECT WITH US
TODAY'S PAPER
See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper, order back issues and use the historic Daily Express newspaper archive.
EXPRESS.CO.UK
Would you like to receive news notifications from Daily Express?

Title:  China's Emergence as a Superpower (2015 onwards) - Page 4
View Tag Cloud
Forum Rules

Title:  China's Emergence as a Superpower (2015 onwards) - Page 4
View Tag Cloud
Forum Rules

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:30Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:30Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Syrian War Daily – 17th of December 2017 | Syrian War Daily
Hello and welcome to the 278th installment of theSWD.
Military events/news are listed below by the governorates:

Aleppo:
Syrian Arab Army heavily shelled Hayat Tahrir al-Sham-held Siyala village, south of Khanaser. Hayat Tahrir al-Sham responded to the shelling, which resulted in the eruption of clashes between the two sides.
Abu Amara Special Task Brigade claimed responsibility for the assassination of Mohammed Farah, son of Hussein Farah, member of the People’s Council of Syria and the National Reconciliation Committee. However, several sources reported that Mohammed Farah’s death was an incident, which occurred as he was cleaning his personal weapon in Al-Sheikh Taha neighborhood of Aleppo.
Raqqa:
Islamic State’sVBIEDexploded in the grain silos area north of Raqqa, killing two civilians. Furthermore, left over Islamic State’s improvised explosive device killed two civilians as they were inspecting their house in the center of Raqqa.
Hama:
Free Syrian Army’s Jaysh al-Izza, backed by Jaysh al-Ahrar and Turkestan Islamic Party launched an attack against the Syrian Arab Army and allies on Halfaya front. The rebels’ attack was led by Jaysh al-Izza’s Colonel Mustafa Bakour and resulted in a brief capture of Al-Zilaqiat and Zalin checkpoint. The rebels also captured six elements belonging to the Syrian Arab Army and allies. Syrian Arab Army and National Defense Forces entered Al-Zilaqiat and Zalin checkpoint after the rebels were forced to retreat due to air raids and shelling. Reports suggest that the Russian troops based in a camp south of Halfaya, completely retreated from the area as the rebels made initial advances.
Leader of Jaysh al-Usrah and former leader of Jaysh al-Muhajireen wal-Ansar and Caucasus Emirate in Sham (Imarat Kavkaz v Shame), Salahuddin al-Shishani was killed by a Russian air strike in the northern Hama. Deputy leader of Jaysh al-Usrah, Khayrullah al-Shishani is expected to be Salahuddin’s successor as the leader of the group.

Approximate situation in the northern Hama, before theSAAand allies recaptured Al-Zilaqiat and Zalin checkpoint, HD version of this map can be foundhere. Source:Step News Agency
Deir al-Zour:
Syrian Democratic Forces captured Al-Zeir and Al-Sihlia neighborhoods of Abu Hammam from the Islamic State.
Left over Islamic State’s improvised explosive device reportedly killed four and wounded two elements of the Syrian Arab Army and allies in Al-Quriyah. The incident occurred as the elements were inspecting a house in the locality.
Islamic State and Syrian Democratic Forces clashed near the village of Abu Hardoub. Islamic State’s Amaq Agency reported death of three elements of the Syrian Democratic Forces due to the clashes.

Approximate situation in the eastern Deir al-Zour. Source:Emmanuel
Damascus:
Syrian Arab Army’s artillery shelled Zamalka, Douma, Harasta, Al-Nashabiyah, and Ain Terma in the East Ghouta. Syrian Civil Defense (The White Helmets) reported injury of 11 civilians due to the shelling of Douma.
Evacuation of foreign Hayat Tahrir al-Sham’s fighters and their families was postponed due to an internal dispute between the fighters. Hayat Tahrir al-Sham in the East Ghouta has been split into two camps, those that want to leave the area towards Idlib and those that want to stay in the East Ghouta.
Spokesman of the rebel Jabal al-Sheikh operations room, Abu Rami al-Janani confirmed Syrian Arab Army’s capture of Tell al-Ziyat and Al-Duhur al-Aswad from the rebels in Beit Jinn pocket. Al-Janani stated that the reasons thatSAAcaptured the aforementioned areas are the small number of fighters and a lack of better equipment.
Daraa:
Four Free Syrian Army’s factions; Al-Wiyat Mujahidi Hawran, Al-Wiyat Jaydour Hawran, Al-Liwa al-Awal Maham Khasat Tawirsh, and Liwa Osama ibn Zeid formed a coalition/operations room Thalif Thuwar al-Jaydour in preparations for the Syrian Arab Army and allies’ attack on the “Triangle of Death” area. Commander of Liwa Osama ibn Zeid, Maher Hawish said that the coalition was formed after they witnessed largeSAA& allies reinforcements arriving in the “Triangle of Death” area. Hawish also stated that the newly-established coalition consists of a thousand fully armed and trained fighters. Member of the media office of the newly-established Thalif Thuwar al-Jaydour coalition, Abu Qais Nasser said that the main idea for the formation of the coalition was to prepare for the upcoming battle against theSAA& allies. Nasser indirectly confirmed that the new coalition doesn’t have any plans for attacks, but rather it is an attempt for a more effective defense, in case of an attack.
Diyala:
Islamic State’s improvised explosive device killed an element of the Al-Hashd al-Shaabi (Popular Mobilization Units) in Sherwin area of Dali Abbas district, according to the Amaq Agency.
Faryab Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (Taliban) denied casualty numbers released yesterday by the Afghan Ministry of Defense, regarding the clashes in Khaja Sahib Posh and Shirin Tagab districts. Ministry of Defense stated yesterday that Afghan National Security Forces killed 20 and wounded 26 fighters of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan in Khaja Sahib Posh and Shirin Tagab districts, as a part of the “Prophet 8” operation. According to theIEA, there were no casualties from the clashes in the aforementioned districts and that theANSFwere unable to make any progress.
Sar-e Pol Province:
Afghan National Army launched another attack against the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan in Tabor area of Sangjark directorate, as a part of “Alborz 20” operation, aimed at eliminating the group’s presence in the directorate. However,IEArepelled today’s attack in the area, losing two fighters in the process.
Laghman Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan ambushed Afghan National Army’s convoy in Aziz Khan Kaj directorate of Qarghayi district. OneANA‘s vehicle was destroyed in the ambush.
Badghis Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan captured Afghan National Army’s checkpoint and killed two soldiers in Ab Kamari district.
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan ambushed a vehicle of the Afghan National Army’s commander, Sabour Khan in Nuri Khail directorate of Muqur district. The vehicle was destroyed in the ambush, commander Sabour Khan killed and another commander Sobtullah wounded.
Farah Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan ambushed Afghan National Security Forces’ military convoy in the village of Tudenakah, Bala Buluk district. Spokesman for the Farah’s Afghan National Police, Iqbal Bahar stated that fiveIEAfighters were killed and eight wounded in the encounter.IEA‘s take on the event claimed destruction of four tanks, six fuel tankers, and two trucks, as well as death of nine and injury of 12ANSF‘s elements.
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s improvised explosive device destroyed Afghan National Police’s tank and wounded two policemen in Anar Dara district.
Nimruz Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan ambushed Afghan National Security Forces’ logistical convoy in Delaram directorate. Reports suggest that ten fuel tankers were destroyed and a number ofANSF‘s elements killed and wounded in the ambush.
Helmand Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan captured two checkpoints from the Afghan National Army in Lashkar Gah district.IEAclaimed that 16ANA‘s elements were killed and three vehicles destroyed during the clashes for the two checkpoints.IEAseized two heavy machine guns, two RPG launchers, three assault rifles, two pistols, and large quantities of ammunition from the checkpoints.
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s improvised explosive devices destroyed four Afghan National Security Forces’ vehicles, including an armored vehicle in Jerash district.
Kandahar Province:
SVBIEDtargeted a convoy of the NATO troops in the province, reportedly killing one and wounding four soldiers.
Two Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s improvised explosive devices destroyed Afghan National Police’s vehicle and killed two elements of the Afghan National Army. Another twoIEAimprovised explosive device targeted Afghan National Police’s elements in the city of Kandahar, killing and wounding 15 elements.
CJTF-OIRannounced a change in their publishing policy. Now two strikes reports will be published each week, on Mondays and Fridays.

Pakistan:
Islamic State took responsibility for an inghimassi (suicide fighters) attack on a church in the city of Quetta. Two suicide bombers reportedly killed at least nine and wounded more than 50 civilians.
Intellectual credited property used may vary from an edition to edition.
Feel free to voice your opinion in the comments section below, constructive criticism is welcomed.
For those of you interested, you can follow us on an official Twitter account@SyrianWarDaily, or me personally on my biased twitter@joskobaricwhere I occasionally tweet some things.

Δ
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address:
Subscribe

Title: Syrian War Daily – 8th of December 2017 | Syrian War Daily
Hello and welcome to the 269th installment of theSWD.
Military events/news are listed below by the governorates:

Aleppo:
Syrian Arab Army reportedly destroyed three Hayat Tahrir al-Sham’s vehicles on the road between Ramlah and Rasm al-Siyala, southwest of Khanasir. The explosion of three vehicles killed ten Hayat Tahrir al-Sham’s fighters.
Al-Hasakah:
CJTF-OIRsent another shipment of weapons to the Syrian Democratic Forces, in support of their operations against the Islamic State. Several truckes were spotted entering Syria through Semalka crossing with Iraq and on their way towards the city of Al-Qamishli.
Idlib:
Russian Air Force carried out four air raids over Zarzur village, near Al-Tamanah. According to the Syrian Civil Defense (The White Helmets), the air raids killed five and wounded three civilians. The wounded individuals were transferred to a hospital in Maarat al-Numaan.
Hayat Tahrir al-Sham ambushed the former element of Liwa al-Aqsa (Jund al-Aqsa), Hussein Sheheber at the outskirts of Iblin village. Clashes erupted between the two parties and Hayat Tahrir al-Sham failed to kidnap Sheheber.
Hama:
Free Syrian Army’s Jaysh al-Izza shelled a camp of the Russian Armed Forces near the city of Halfaya. Jaysh al-Izza’s spokesman, Lieutenant Mahmoud al-Mahmoud stated that the artillery targeted the Russian camp south of Halfaya, in response to the Russian Air Force’s bombing of Khan Sheikhun (Shaykhun). Al-Mahmoud also stated that they do not have information regarding the casualties from the shelling.
Deir al-Zour:
Islamic State’s Amaq Agency released a statement about Islamic State’s suicide attack targeting Syrian Democratic Forces in the village of Dranj, south of Al-Omar fields. According to the Amaq Agency, 15SDF‘s fighters were killed, three Humvees and another three vehicles destroyed, as well as a bulldozer.

Situation in the eastern Syria, HD version of this map can be foundhere. Source:Peto Lucem
Damascus:
Syrian Arab Army’s artillery shelled Harasta, Ain Terma, and Jisreen in the East Ghouta. According to the Syrian Civil Defense, 13 shells fell on Harasta and wounded a number of civilians. The shelling of Ain Terma and Jisreen was only confined to material damage.
Vehicle-borne improvised explosive device exploded in Al-Buqya neighborhood of Babila, wounding a civilian. The target of the explosion was the leader of Kataib Aknaf Bayt al-Muqdis, Abu Ahmed Mushir. Mushir stated that the unknown individuals planted two improvised explosive devices in his car. One of the explosive devices was dismantled, while the other exploded and wounded a civilian. Mushir added that according to the preliminary information, the Islamic State is responsible for the attempted assassination and the explosion.
Rebels from the Jabal al-Sheikh operations room based in Beit Jinn pocket destroyed Syrian Arab Army’s weapons depot in the city of Al-Makroussa.
Nineveh:
Iraqi Army, backed by Al-Hashd al-Shaabi (Popular Mobilization Units) resumed their operations against the Islamic State in the western desertous part of governorate, as a part of the larger operation to clear Nineveh, Salah al-Deen and Anbar desertous areas from the Islamic State. In the initial push, the Iraqi Army’s 7th Infantry Division, 8th Infantry Division, and 9th Armored division captured 10 villages and cleared more than 7000 square kilometers (2700 square miles) from the Islamic State, according to the Iraqi Joint Operations.
The second update from the Iraqi Joint Operations stated that the Iraqi forces cleared 35 villages and 4300 square kilometers (1660 square miles) from the Islamic State in the western Nineveh.
Kirkuk:
Islamic State reportedly kidnapped Al-Hashd al-Shaabi’s fighter near Daquq, south of Kirkuk.
Faryab Province:
Afghan National Security Forces’ operations in Ghormach district killed three fighters of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (Taliban).
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan assassinated a senior commander of the Afghan National Army, Shamsuddin in Shirin Tagab district.
Kunduz Province:
Afghan National Security Forces conducted operations in Imam Sahib against the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, killing 12 of the latter’s fighters and wounding additional ten, as well as destroying two headquarters and six positions. Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s version of the events in Imam Sahib district states that the clashes broke out in the district afterANSFtried to advance in several areas, such as; Kergan Tuba, Gargzu, Biggam, and Ismael Qashlaq. According to theIEA,ANSFweren’t able to advance in the region, as the clashes between the two still continue in the district.IEAstated that eightANSF‘s elements were killed and wounded in the clashes, as well as twoIEAfighters wounded.
Badghis Province:
Afghan National Army and the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan clashed for several hours in Ab Kamari district, resulting in the injury of two former’s elements and one of the latter’s.
Kunar Province:
Afghan National Security Forces wounded two fighters of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan during the operations in the province.
Nangarhar Province:
Afghan National Security Forces’ operations against the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan in Hisarak and Khogyani districts resulted in death of 12IEAfighters, includingIEAcommander for Hisarak district. Furthermore, sixIEAfighters were arrested.
Islamic State’s sniper killed Afghan National Army’s soldier in Achin district.
Improvised explosive device exploded in a mosque in Momand Dara district, during the Friday prayers. The explosion killed the mosque’s imam and wounded eight people.
Paktia Province:
Afghan National Security Forces killed six fighters of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan during the operations in Jaji Ariob directorate.
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s improvised explosive device destroyed a vehicle and injured five elements of the Afghan National Police.
Khost Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s improvised explosive device targeted Afghan National Army’s foot patrol in Qalandar district. The explosion killed one and wounded oneANA‘s soldier.
Ghazni Province:
Afghan National Security Forces conducted operations against the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan in Andar district and killed fourIEAfighters, as well as wounded additional four.
Farah Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan destroyed Afghan National Army’s vehicle in Anar Dara district, killing one soldier and wounding four.
Zabul Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan ambushed Afghan National Security Forces’ military convoy in Shinkay district. The ambush killed twoANA‘s soldiers and oneANP‘s element, as well as destroyed three vehicles.
Helmand Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s snipers killed two and wounded two elements of the Afghan National Army in Kogiano directorate.
Kandahar Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s snipers targeted Afghan National Army’s checkpoint in Bouldek directorate, killing one soldier.
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan ambushed Afghan National Army’s soldier in Maruf district. The attackers captured the soldier and also seized his weapon and a motorcycle.
Between the 4th and the 7th of December 2017CJTF-OIRhas conducted 14 strikes in Syria.CJTF-OIR‘s main focus in Syria at the moment is Deir al-Zour-Albu Kamal region where they did 14 strikes supportingSDF‘s operations againstISdestroying three IS fighting positions, 17 IS watercraft, an improvised explosive device, an IS line of communication, two IS headquarters, a heavy weapon, an IS motorcycle, and two IS vehicles.
Full report onCJTF-OIRstrikes conducted in both Syria & Iraq can be foundhere.
Egypt:
Islamic State assassinated an alleged spy working for the Egyptian Army in Al-Ahrash neighborhood, northern Rafah.
Somalia:
Islamic State’s fighters assassinated a member of the National Intelligence and Security Agency in Afgooye, Lower Shebelle province.
Intellectual credited property used may vary from an edition to edition.
Feel free to voice your opinion in the comments section below, constructive criticism is welcomed.
For those of you interested, you can follow us on an official Twitter account@SyrianWarDaily, or me personally on my biased twitter@joskobaricwhere I occasionally tweet some things.

Δ
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address:
Subscribe

Title: Threats Dismantling In Afghanistan – Analysis – Eurasia Review
A Journal of Analysis and News

Afghanistan's Mohammad Ashraf Ghani. Photo by Patrick Tsui/FCO, Wikipedia Commons.
BySamim Arif*
Since President Ashraf Ghani took office in 2014, his predecessor, Hamid Karzai almost immediately began a political war against the newly sworn in Afghan leader.
Karzai, resenting Ghani’s positions, began a campaign that’s gone from subversion to outright rebellion against Ghani and his administration, aiming to end the presidents tenure before his term ends. Karzai has mainly opposed Ghani’s leniency with the United States now seeks to stir turmoil in the country’s government.
In July 2015,I wrote in Foreign Policyhow Karzai begrudges the National Unity Government (NUG), and indirectly subverts Ghani’s administration. Two years ago, Karzai criticized Ghani’s friendly outreach to Pakistan, now he is criticizing Ghani for stalemating relations with Pakistan because of its deceitful policy toward Afghanistan. Those juggling views show that blaming Ghani for anything is merely the pretext of a power struggle.
Behind Karzai’s dissonance with the current government are his bitter relations with the U.S. Since the beginning of his term, Ghani has improved U.S.-Afghan diplomatic relations and built mutual trust between the two governments. Ghani’s leverage with the U.S. began to surface when President Donald Trump took a harsh stance against Pakistan’s behavior in his South Asia Policy, specifically warning against safe havens provided to Taliban and other terrorist organizations by Pakistan. The U.S. government is continuouslypressuring Pakistanto revisit its policy of using means of terrorism and aggression in Afghanistan.
On the other hand, Karzai has grown close ties with nations in the region wary of U.S. existence in Afghanistan. He has visited Russia multiple times after retiring from office. In an interview with Al-Jazeera, Karzai blamed the U.S. forcolluding with ISin Afghanistan. He is feeding into Russia and Iran’s propaganda, that the U.S. wants to pave way for IS to penetrate into Central Asia and Iran’s border.
Karzai and his followers haverecently launcheda campaign and imprudently demand the president to summon a Loya Jirga to find solutions to the current security and governance challenges. Loya Jirga, meaning grand assembly, is a political tradition in Afghanistan going on for centuries. It is convened to settle major national issues. This pleas might have amassed support at the beginning of Ghani administration, because the state of government was fragile and Taliban and their patron, Pakistan were anticipating to usurp the nascent state any moment. But now that state of fragility has shifted despite the intensified conflagration of war.
Ghani has established major successes within first three years of office.
First, on the diplomatic front Ghani’s sagacity has enabled him to create a supra-Pakistan bloc with India and U.S. in South Asia without making China uncomfortable. His outreach to Gulf countries has also borne fruit for Afghanistan. Qatar, UAE and Saudi Arabia are financing major developmental projects in the country. Regional connectivity and expanding Afghanistan’s trade horizon was one of Ghani’s major selling campaign platforms; and he is making progress. With Chabahar port, air corridor with India, andmajor trade and energy agreementswith Central Asia starting to take shape, Afghanistan no longer depends onPakistan’s trade. Pakistan used to block Torkham pass in the east and Chaman on the south to pressure the Afghan government given Afghanistan complete dependence of Pakistan’s trade. But with Ghani’s successful trade diplomacy with Central Asian nations, the ball is Afghanistan’s court.
In the upcoming decade, Afghanistan’s leverage in the region will further increase with South Asia’s increasing needs to energy from Central Asia, and Central Asia’s need for market.Lapis Lazuli Transit and Transport Route agreementbetween Afghanistan, Turkmenistan, Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey is another major success that connects landlocked Afghanistan with Europe.
Ghani has also shown commitment to reform Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF). One of the suggestions I proposed inmy The Diplomat articleearlier this year was to retire corrupt, old and incapable leadership. Ghani hasrecently announcedthat 56 army generals over the age of 65 are being retired. In September 2017, Ghani boldly said in an interview that he is adamant to rout controversial officers from the 1980s and 1990s, pointed at the former Mujahideen, from the ANSF. A police general on December 3was sentenced to eight yearsin prison for neglect of duty. To prosecute and convict a brass of such rank is unprecedented since 2002.
While the current government is striking successes on many fronts, Karzai wants to weaken Ghani’s position in next presidential election with the backing of corrupt parliament members and sacked officials already suffering popularity among Afghans.
*Samim Arifis a Fulbright scholar and works at the Department of Sociology in Indiana University. His research area is governance, democracy and service delivery. He tweets @SamimArif.
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Name*
Email*
Website

What is the MENA region? MENA is the acronym for “Middle East and North Africa”, regularly used in academic and
This article is just plain wrong! The author may have a professorship, but his academic rigor is very poor. To…
there are legitimate reasons for USA to dissolve. the country is divided and bankrupt whoever wins the next election will…
THIS IS ONE OF THE WORSE PIECES EVER POSTED ON EURASIA REVIEW, MOST RACIST, ANTI-SEMITIC ANTI-UKRAINIAN RANT. WHY DID ER…
This is either the most self-deceiving rose-tinted spectacles view of Russia I have ever read, or a despicable set of…
It is wishful thinking to expect Gwadar Port to be a game changer for Pakistan. It has not materialized so…

Title: Syrian War Daily – 24th of December 2017 | Syrian War Daily
Hello and welcome to the 285th installment of theSWD.
Military events/news are listed below by the governorates:

Idlib:
Syrian Salvation Government, which operates in Hayat Tahrir al-Sham-held areas in Idlib governorate, opened a police station in the city of Binnish. Syrian Salvation Government’s Minister of Interior, Ahmed Nuri Mohammed Deeb attended the opening ceremony.
Hama:
Hayat Tahrir al-Sham captured Tell Abu Khanadiq from the Islamic State in the northern Hama. Islamic State captured the locality from Hayat Tahrir al-Sham at the beginning of December.
Russian Air Force conducted four air raids over the villages of Al-Tafahiah and Buyud in the eastern Hama.

Approximate situation in the northern Hama, HD version of this map can be foundhere. Source:Qasioun News Agency
Damascus:
Syrian Arab Army’s artillery shelled Ain Terma and Kafr Batna in the East Ghouta.
Syrian Arab Army reportedly captured Tell al-Kharoub from the rebel Jabal al-Sheikh operations room near Beit Jinn farms, in Beit Jinn pocket.

Approximate situation in Beit Jinn pocket. Source:Suriyak
Daraa:
Syrian Arab Army’s artillery shelled rebel-held Al-Naimah.
Free Syrian Army and IS-linked Jaysh Khalid ibn al-Walid clashed in the Yarmouk basin area, as the former shelled latter’s positions in the area.
Improvised explosive device exploded on the road between Bosr al-Harir and Musika, wounding three people.
Rebel “Daraa Martyrs Documentation Office” reported death of a Free Syrian Army’s fighter, due to the wounds sustained during the clashes with the Syrian Arab Army in Al-Manashiyah neighborhood of Daraa.
Islamic State-linked Jaysh Khalid ibn al-Walid publicly executed a Free Syrian Army’s fighter in Nafea. The executed fighter belonged to the Tajammu al-Shahid Abu Hamza al-Naeimi and was captured in the September.
Baghdad:
Iraqi Army’s 11th Infantry Division arrested several crude oil smugglers, after ambushing them in Al-Rashadiyah area, northeast of Baghdad. Iraqi forces also seized a vehicle used to transport crude oil.
Faryab Province:
Afghan National Security Forces conducted operations against the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (Taliban) in Khaja Sahib Posh district, killing eight and wounding seven elements of the group.
Balkh Province:
Afghan National Security Forces arrested four elements of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan in Balkh district.
Laghman Province:
Afghan National Security Forces arrested a suicide attacker planning to carry out an attack against the Afghan government’s institutions in the city of Mihtarlam, the capital of Laghman Province. The arrested suicide attacker was reportedly disguised in women’s clothing.
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s improvised explosive device killed an element of the Afghan Local Police in Alishing district.
Nangarhar Province:
Afghan National Security Forces conducted operations against the Islamic State in Ghani Khel district, killing five elements of the group, including one of the local commanders.
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan ambushed Afghan National Police in Ghani Khel area, destroying a vehicle and killing three elements of the police.
Badghis Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan stormed Afghan National Army’s checkpoint in Qali Zardak area of Dara Boum directorate, forcing the latter to withdraw from it after allegedly sustaining heavy clashes during the clashes. Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan seized a motorcycle and five boxes of ammunition from the checkpoint.
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s sniper killed one and wounded another element of the Afghan National Army in Ab Garmak area of Ghormach district.
Ghazni Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan captured Afghan National Army’s checkpoint in Chaghto directorate, killing and wounding several soldiers in the process.
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s improvised explosive device destroyed Afghan National Army’s vehicle in the city of Ghazni.
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan ambushed Afghan National Army’s infantry in the city of Ghazni, killing two soldiers and seizing two assault rifles.
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s snipers killed three Afghan National Army’s soldiers across the city of Ghazni. Furthermore, Afghan Local Police’s element was also killed by anIEAsniper near a checkpoint in Deh Yak district.
Farah Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s improvised explosive device destroyed Afghan National Army’s tank in Shamalgah area of Farah city. Furthermore, in Chakab area of Farah city, another Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s improvised explosive device killed an element of the Afghan National Police.
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan raided district administration center of Anar Dara, under the control of the Afghan National Police. Clashes between the two lasted for two hours, during which one element of the Afghan National Police was wounded and additional two wounded.
Zabul Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s improvised explosive device destroyed Afghan National Army’s armored personnel carrier in Khwaja Baba area of Shahr-e-Safa directorate. The explosion killed five soldiers on board.
Nimruz Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan ambushed Afghan National Security Forces’ logistical convoy in Lakh Shakano area of Delaram directorate. The ambush resulted in destruction of two fuel tankers.
Helmand Province:
Afghan National Security Forces conducted operations against the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan in Marjah district, killing four fighters of the group and destroying two motorcycles, weapons depots and ammunition caches.
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan launched several attacks against the Afghan National Security Forces’ reinforcements that arrived in Terikh Nawar and camp areas of Marjah districts. Several Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’s improvised explosive devices also targeted the aforementioned troops. According to the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, 22ANSF‘s elements were killed, two armored vehicles destroyed and one vehicle seized.
Kandahar Province:
Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan ambushed Afghan National Security Forces’ reinforcements heading towards Wandoz area of Arghistan district. The clashes between the two sides resulted in killing of sixANSF‘s elements and injury of threeIEAfighters. Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan seized two vehicles, four assault rifles and six pistols.
CJTF-OIRannounced a change in their publishing policy. Now two strikes reports will be published each week, on Mondays and Fridays.

Intellectual credited property used may vary from an edition to edition.
Feel free to voice your opinion in the comments section below, constructive criticism is welcomed.
For those of you interested, you can follow us on an official Twitter account@SyrianWarDaily, or me personally on my biased twitter@joskobaricwhere I occasionally tweet some things.

Δ
Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address:
Subscribe

Title: The Civil Half of the Afghan War
Photo: Mario Tama/Getty Images
ReportbyAnthony H. Cordesman
Published December 6, 2017
Every war has both a military and a civil dimension. This is especially true of counterinsurgency campaigns like Afghanistan, where the civil dimension is always a critical half of the battle. The U.S. now seems to be making real progress in reshaping its approach to fighting the military half of the war in Afghanistan, but it is far from clear that it is playing an effective role in helping Afghanistan deal with the critical problems it faces in dealing with the civil side of the war—the lack of security in civil life, chronic failures in governance, and massive economic challenges.
On the military side, the U.S. finally seems to be providing the levels of air support and train and assist personnel necessary to give the Afghan forces a fighting chance. It now is committed to providing the needed support long enough to allow Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) to stand on their own. It has gained support from some of its NATO allies in enhancing the military advisory and support mission, and it seems committed to a conditions-based security strategy, rather than one with arbitrary deadlines for withdrawal.
What is far less clear is that the U.S. has an effective strategy to deal with the civil side of the war—the "hearts and minds" aspects necessary to win popular support for the government, to counter the Taliban and other threats at the local and provincial level, and to create the kind of support within the ANSF for the government that can win a counterinsurgency conflict (rather than attract recruits simply because no other jobs or sources of income are available).
A new report by the Burke Chair at CSIS examines the challenges presented by the civil dimension of the Afghan conflict. It is entitledThe Civil Half of the War: Dealing with the Afghan Political, Governance, Economics, Corruption, and Drug Threat,and is available on the CSIS websiteathttps://www.csis.org/analysis/civil-half-afghan-war.
Two sets of civil challenges are involved. One is the immediate set of political problems caused by a deeply divided government: President Ashraf Ghani and CEO Abdullah Abdullah lead alongside a thug – Vice President Abdul Rashid Dostom, over an ineffective parliament, and a mix of power brokers, warlords, and uncertain provincial and district leaders outside the capital at “Kabulstan.”
Leadership and political credibility are key short-term issues, as are elections. There are also serious questions about the real-world effectiveness and impact of yet another reform program, which seems better oriented to deal with Afghanistan’s international financial problems than the needs and loyalties of its people.
The second set of civil challenges consists of far deeper structural problems that affect the civil dimension of the war and that will take years to solve, affect any prospect for a stable peace and recovery, and have a major impact on the Afghan people. These challenges tend to receive only minimal attention at the policy level. However, it is far from clear that any counterinsurgency campaign can be won unless these challenges are addressed and the Afghan people at least become confident that their lives will improve in each area.
There are three key problem areas that shape the civil dimension of the Afghan conflict:
This analysis addresses each problem area in turn, and provides a wide range of indicators to show the seriousness of each problem and quantify the trends that now impact the war. It draws on a number of sources—most notably analysis by the World Bank, IMF, UN, and CIA—to address the seriousness of the structural pressures affecting the civil side of the war. It also draws heavily on an annual poll of Afghan public opinion by the Asia Foundation to examine Afghan popular perceptions of these problems and the correlation between them and Afghan "hearts and minds."
It should again be stressed that the analysis focuses on the underlying structural problems and trends involved, rather than Afghan politics; human rights issues like the role of women; the country's ethnic, sectarian, and tribal divisions; and the impact that Afghanistan's neighbors and other outside powers have on its civil life and economy. These too are critical aspects of the civil dimension of the war. They do not, however, lend themselves to the same degree of quantification and trend analysis. As a result, it should be clear that the need for effective U.S. and other outside aid in nation building is even more critical than this study indicates.

Center for Strategic and International Studies1616 Rhode Island Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20036
Tel: 202.887.0200Fax: 202.775.3199
SeeMedia Pagefor more interview, contact, and citation details.
©2024 Center for Strategic & International Studies. All Rights Reserved.

Title: How India must counter the Chinese threat - Rediff.com India News
NewsApp(Free)
Available on
'The military aim in a future conflict, if it can't be avoided, should be to cause maximum damage to the adversary's war waging capability and capture limited amount of territory as a bargaining counter,' says Brigadier Gurmeet Kanwal (retd).

The foremost challenge for India to ensure peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific will be to manage the rise of a militarily assertive China that is seeking to achieve a 'favourable strategic posture'.
Having come close to completing its four modernisations, China has discarded Deng Xiaoping's 24-character strategy to 'hide our capacity and bide our time' and has begun to flex its military muscle.
China senses the emergence of a security vacuum in the Indo-Pacific and is rushing to fill it.
India must join the US and other strategic partners, such as Australia, Japan, Singapore, South Korea and Vietnam, to establish a cooperative security framework for peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific, for the security of the global commons and to deal with contingencies like those described below.
If China is willing to join this security architecture it should be welcomed.
With its proclivity for solving territorial disputes by using military force and its growing military power, China may behave irresponsibly somewhere in the Indo-Pacific, including against India.
China could decide to intervene militarily in the South China Sea, or to occupy one or more of the disputed Senkaku/Diaoyu islands or decide to resolve the remaining territorial disputes, like that with India, by using military force.
Also, China has deep internal fault-lines.
Its rapid economic growth, now slowing, has been fairly uneven and non-inclusive. There is a deep sense of resentment against the leadership of the Communist Party for the denial of basic freedoms.
The discontentment simmering below the surface could boil over and lead to a spontaneous implosion that may be uncontrollable.
The recent crash of Chinese stock markets and continuing volatility also point to the possibility of a meltdown.
Both the contingencies -- implosion and military adventurism -- have a low probability of occurrence, but will be high-impact events with widespread ramifications around the Indo-Pacific should either of them come to pass.
Both contingencies will shake up the markets, result in millions of refugees and lead to a bloodbath.
India and its strategic partners will need to cooperate closely to deal with the fallout and to manage the disastrous consequences as either of these contingencies unfolds.
In this context, the India-US strategic partnership makes eminent sense as a hedging strategy for both countries.
In more senses than one, it is India's 'principal' strategic partnership, as then prime minister Manmohan Singh had described it. His predecessor, then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, had gone further and had said that India and the US were 'natural allies'.
Whichever term is used to describe the relationship, clearly, the US cannot be expected to pull India's chestnuts out of the fire, and vice versa.
Only when the vital national interests of both are threatened will the two countries come together and act in concert.
Defence cooperation, a key component of the strategic partnership, must be enhanced to take it to the next higher trajectory to enable the two countries to undertake joint threat assessment; contingency planning for joint operations; sharing of intelligence; simulations and table-top exercises -- besides training exercises with troops; coordination of command, control and communications; and planning for operational deployment and logistics support.
All of these activities must be undertaken in concert with India's other strategic partners in Asia.
The growing China-Pakistan nuclear warhead-ballistic missile-military hardware nexus is a matter of concern.
China is now engaged in developing the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor to link Xinjiang with Gwadar on the Makran coast as part of its One Belt, One Road initiative to counter the US influence in the Indo-Pacific.
China has vetoed several resolutions in the UN sanctions committee aimed at censuring Pakistan and designating Pakistani extremist leaders as terrorists. China tends to forget that it is itself a victim of terrorist activity that has its roots on Pakistani soil.
Elsewhere in Southern Asia, China is vigorously pursuing its strategic encirclement of India by making inroads into each of India's land neighbours and through the acquisition of port facilities for the PLA navy to operate, as part of its string of pearls strategy in the northern Indian Ocean.
While China is too large to be effectively contained, India can and must raise the cost for China. India should do this through political and diplomatic means and through pro-active defence cooperation with its strategic partners.
Because of its claims over the South China Sea, China has been objecting to India's ONGC prospecting for oil and gas within Vietnam's territorial waters.
Future ONGC operations should be backed up with support from the Indian Navy by way of providing point defence to offshore oil installations and conducting maritime patrolling in the South China Sea jointly with the US and other strategic partners.
Vietnam has often expressed an interest in Indian weapons systems. These must be provided on soft loans, including ballistic missiles that do not violate MTCR guidelines such as the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile, Prithvi I and II and Prahar SSMs. The indigenously-designed and manufactured Pinaka MBRL should also be provided.
Initial batches of these weapons systems could be gifted and training teams sent to providein situtraining assistance. Notably, the US recently lifted its 50-year old embargo on the sale of arms to Vietnam.
Afghanistan has given India a wish list of weapons and equipment in accordance with the provisions of its strategic partnership with India. So far India has given only non-lethal defence equipment, including a few utility helicopters.
The other items required by the ANSF in order to improve combat capability should also be provided. The training assistance being provided to the ANSF should be stepped up by an order of magnitude.
If invited to do so by the Afghan government, India should be prepared to train ANSF personnel inside Afghanistan. The Indian training teams should be self-sufficient and capable of organising their own local security, including limited counter-terrorism measures.
The trilateral agreement with Iran and Afghanistan for India to develop the Chabahar port and link it with the Zaranj-Delaram highway, built by India in Afghanistan, to gain access to the Central Asian Republics and beyond to the CIS countries is a positive development.
It will also provide a suitable route for logistics support should India be called upon to send an infantry division to Afghanistan to support ANSF operations if it becomes necessary.
Similarly, India should reach out to Bangladesh, Bhutan, the Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal and Sri Lanka and the countries on the Indian Ocean littoral in order to minimise the negative impact of the overtures being made by China to them.
As for hard power, India must maintain continuous vigil over the frontiers and carefully note Chinese and Pakistani activities across the disputed boundaries. Surveillance technology should be exploited to add to human vigilance.
From the efforts being put in to develop infrastructure along the land borders, including the refurbishment of advance landing grounds (ALGs) in Arunachal Pradesh and Ladakh, and the raising of new forces, it is clear that army and the air force are gradually pivoting to the mountains.
The raising of potent forces like the 17 Corps, popularly called the Mountain Strike Corps, will help to upgrade the quality of India's deterrence. Two additional divisions (56 and 71 Mountain Divisions) have been raised recently for defensive operations in Arunachal Pradesh.
Similarly, one Strike Corps out of three in the plains and one additional infantry division with high altitude air assault capability need to be placed on high alert to counter aggression.
The addition of new combat capability in the mountains, particularly the ability to launch and sustain offensive operations across the LAC, will send an appropriate signal to China.
The ability to launch offensive operations into Chinese territory will upgrade India's military strategy against China from dissuasion to deterrence.
Deterrence in the maritime domain should also be enhanced so as to be prepared to confront Chinese and Pakistani navies and, if necessary, even their merchant shipping as a counter strategy to exploit the weaknesses of the adversaries in the maritime domain should a war break out on the LAC or the LoC.
The essence of India's military strategy should be to deter war, but if war is thrust on India, to fight synergised tri-Service operations and ensure that conflict termination takes place on favourable terms.
The military aim in a future conflict, if it cannot be avoided, should be to cause maximum damage to the adversary's war waging capability by kinetic means and to capture limited amount of territory as a bargaining counter.
Brigadier Gurmeet Kanwal (retd) is Distinguished Fellow, Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses (IDSA), New Delhi.This is an excerpt fromThe New Arthashastra: A Security Strategy for India, Edited by Gurmeet Kanwal, with the kind permission of the HarperCollins Publishers India Limited.
IMAGE: An Indian soldier maintains vigil on India's border with China.
News India|Latest News India|Bollywood News|Indian Cricket Score|India Business News

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: The Kurram Conundrum  |  Newsline
In his memoir, Hawks on Hawks, American director and producer Howard Hawks proposed that…
The film title Marshall, sounds like a thriller, and it has been given the treatment…
[caption id="attachment_25232" align="alignnone" width="1024"] Alleged Taliban and Islamic State fighters at the police headquarters in…
The beginnings of all stories are founded in myth. The archetypal qualities of foundation myths…
[caption id="attachment_25225" align="alignright" width="234"] Akhtar Baloch[/caption] At 18, the youngest female political prisoner in…
Bahadur Shah Zafar, the last emperor of the Mughal dynasty in India, ruled between 1837…
[caption id="attachment_25221" align="alignnone" width="1024"] Senator Mushahid Hussain gave the keynote address.[/caption] Pakistan was 70…
[caption id="attachment_25199" align="alignnone" width="625"] Zarsanga[/caption] The great Pashto poet and sculptor, Ghani Khan, had once…
Sher Ali, 60, can sense the stress in the air as he returns home from…
Molten rock heated at over 700 centigrade is spewed out by volcanoes as lava. These…
[caption id="attachment_25187" align="alignnone" width="1024"] Ashoke Chatterjee and Kamila Shamsie.[/caption] The second Lahore Literary Festival (LLF)…
Writing is an art shaped largely by the environment. In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) and the…
Farrukh Khan Pitafi is a television journalist based in Islamabad. Mainstreaming extremists is a misnomer.…
A crowd of young and old, lovers of music and students of the National Academy…
A fairly new social entrepreneur in Karachi, Sadaffe Abid’s serene, petite demeanour belies a trailblazing…
[caption id="attachment_25074" align="alignnone" width="1024"] Pakistani spectator holds a placard during the T20 cricket match between…
Guru Nanak’s birth anniversary was like a trip to Pakistan’s syncretic past. I reached Nankana…
[caption id="attachment_25160" align="alignnone" width="1024"] Overview of Gilgit city.[/caption] Driving through Gilgit’s Jaglote Bazar, Mohammad Asif…
Photos by the author. [caption id="attachment_25125" align="alignnone" width="1024"] Statues of dervishes in the shrine of…
During the Second World War, the sun that never set on the British Empire started…
[caption id="attachment_25119" align="alignnone" width="780"] MMA resurrection: Maulana Fazlur-Rehman (L), Siraj-ul-Haq and Allama Arif Hussain Wahidi…
The term Ahmadi applies neither to a person nor a belief. In the context of…
Last month the webpage of The News made for some entertaining reading. On the right…
The Hazaras’ tribulations in Quetta started in earnest in 1999, with an attempt on the…
On November 22, Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi approved Finance Minister Ishaq Dar’s medical leave.…
[caption id="attachment_25093" align="alignnone" width="1024"] A ghostly siemce prevails at the Gawadar Press Club.[/caption] Sachal used…
The tug of war between the Sindh government and the Inspector General (IG) of the…
There is a vicious food chain in journalism, starting with the reporter and ending…
Hopes were high for Kenneth Branagh’s remake of the 1934 Agatha Christie detective story, Murder…
Hurricanes are not new to America. Almost every year, these natural disasters bring devastation in…
Known once as one of the most polluted states in the world, China took centre…
[caption id="attachment_25071" align="alignnone" width="900"] Supporters of executed Islamist Mumtaz Qadri shout slogans during an anti-government…
[caption id="attachment_25068" align="alignnone" width="900"] Pakistani rangers stand on a blocked flyover[/caption] The siege of Islamabad,…
When two strong women, both accomplished actresses, share top billing in a stage play, expectations…
The curtain raiser for the much anticipated play, The 39 Steps, originally adapted from…
One would have thought that the country had come a long way since Mukhtaran Mai’s…
[caption id="attachment_25047" align="alignnone" width="1024"] Pakistani supporters of the Tehreek-i-Labaik Yah Rasool Allah Pakistan[/caption] Between November…
The video clip of the DG, Punjab Rangers, handing cash envelopes to supporters of Tehreek-e-Labbaik…
ByAasim Zafar Khan|Newsbeat National|Published 7 years ago

Last month the webpage ofThe Newsmade for some entertaining reading. On the right hand side of the page was a headline that read: “US launches more drone attacks,” whereas on the left column, complete with a picture of the Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) spokesman, was a headline saying: “ISPR dismisses reports of drone strike in Kurram agency.” Talk about keeping everyone happy.
In any event, this contradiction was begging for a little investigation and so a few e-mails and calls later, the following emerged: Sometime last week, there was what is known as a double tap strike — which is one drone attack with multiple missiles fired. This is a common occurrence where an initial burst is followed by another against those that come to retrieve the bodies. This strike occurred in Upper Kurram, on a Haqqani Networkmarkaz, in the border region called Maqbal.
Reportedly, 20 people were killed in the strike, including a senior Haqqani Network commander by the name of Sangin Wali Shah, with the title ‘Ameer, Shuba-e-Tashkil,’ which translates into the head of insurgency operations.
The Pakistani side denies this attack happened.
Jalaluddin Haqqani: The founder of the network.
Kurram agency also saw an earlier drone strike, in mid-September. Again, the target was the Haqqani Network, but this time in lower Kurram. One of the fatalities included Ismat Zaeef, the son-in-law of Abdus Salam Zaeef, the pre-9/11 Taliban ambassador to Pakistan.
On October 21, there was another attack on another Haqqani Networkmarkaz, in the Bobrak Tana Kochi area of the Paktia province across the border. Eleven people, including Commander Abdur Rehman Kochi, were killed.
At the same time, it is interesting to note that the recently released US nationals that had been abducted by the Afghan Taliban were being moved into Kurram Agency when they were intercepted by the Pakistanis and freed. Were they being handed over to the Haqqanis for safekeeping? Who can say? In this line of work, one is disposed against the workings of chance, and the Haqqanis do have a history of being great hosts to kidnapped westerners.
There is a growing rumour that the Pakistani side committed what is known asbewafai, or betrayal, when they intercepted and freed the kidnapped westerners. And to signal their displeasure, the Haqqani Network immediately responded with a wave of terror attacks in the south, east and west of Afghanistan, killing upwards of 74 people.
Clearly, the drone campaign is back in full flow, and this time around, the Haqqani Network is in the crosshairs. This puts Pakistan in a bit of a pickle.
Firstly, there is the question of movement. If indeed the drone strikes continue to happen, will the Haqqani Network seek refuge elsewhere? The further inwards they move from the border region, the less control/influence they have on the going-ons inside Afghanistan, which remains their playground. Secondly, of course, as the air campaign against them intensifies, pressure will mount on Pakistan to deny them the space to move inwards. If they manage to, Pakistan will be called out for “allowing them the space.”
It is more likely though, that if the Haqqani Network seeks a new refuge, it will be in eastern and southern Afghanistan where there is no control of the Kabul government. Indeed, most Pakistani terror groups and leaders continue to find refuge in provinces such as Paktia, Paktika, Khost, Nuristan etc.
Precisely what is Pakistan’s relationship with the Haqqanis? The answer varies, depending on who one talks to. Those sympathetic to Rawalpindi insist that the days of going to bed with the Haqqanis are long gone, that all terrorists are bad etc. On the other side, there are those who say that Pakistan is the master duplicitor, shaking hands with the right and stabbing with the left.
The truth probably lies somewhere in between. More importantly though, one needs to understand why the network exists, and does what it does. Currently, it acts as an ‘enabler’ for other groups, be it the Afghan Taliban, or the Al Qaeda. It is this relationship with the Afghan Taliban, and the Haqqani Network’s importance to their cause that got Sirajuddin Haqqani (Jalaluddin’s son) a seat on the Quetta Shura, the main governing and planning body of the Afghan Taliban. It is also believed that the Haqqani Network facilitated Osama bin Laden’s escape from Tora Bora, in 2001.
One should view the current drone campaign against the Haqqani Network in this light: hurt them, and you hurt the Afghan Taliban.
Still, the Haqqani Network will continue to remain relevant for at least two reasons: a) the continued US presence in Afghanistan keeps the call to jihad alive. And b) a political settlement that includes the Afghan Taliban remains elusive. Till that happens, sustained peace in Afghanistan will remain a pipe dream. If, however, a settlement that includes the Afghan Taliban is met, their dependence on the Haqqani Network will decrease dramatically.
The Network’s history of acting as an enabler for other groups is well documented. It would be naÃ¯ve to assume that they do not offer their services to groups beyond Al Qaeda and the Afghan Taliban. Take, for example, the Jamaat-ul-Ahrar. A recent drone strike in the Paktia province in Afghanistan took out their leader, Omar Khalid Khorasani, who was also the mastermind of the deadly attack on the Army Public School in Peshawar, which left over 100 children dead. Paktia is a known stronghold of the Haqqanis. Would it be safe to assume then, that the Haqqanis also give refuge and assistance to terrorist groups that target Pakistan?
Again, the answer varies depending on which side of the fence one sits on.
The writer is a journalist based in Lahore. He is the current managing editor of MIT Technology Review Pakistan, a bi-monthly science and technology magazine.
Copyright © 2024 All Rights reserved by Newsline Magazine.

Title: No title found


Title: 
	Two killed in drone attack in Khurram area  - The Hindu

To enjoy additional benefits
CONNECT WITH US
Published- December 26, 2017 06:05 pm IST - Peshawar:
A U.S. drone fired two missiles at a vehicle on Tuesday killing two militants, including a Haqqani network commander, near Pakistan-Afghanistan border in restive tribal region in the country’s northwest, authorities said.
The unmanned aircraft struck the vehicle this afternoon at border village, Matta Sangar, in Kurram Agency.
Two militants, including Haqqani network commander Jamiuddin, were killed, they said.
The Haqqani network has carried out a number of kidnappings and attacks against U.S. interests in Afghanistan.
The group is also blamed for several deadly attacks against Indian interests in Afghanistan, including the 2008 bombing of the Indian mission in Kabul that killed 58 people.
Officials also said a probe has been launched.
Published- December 26, 2017 06:05 pm IST
Pakistan/Afghanistan/act of terror
Copyright© 2024, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
BACK TO TOP
Terms & conditions|Institutional Subscriber
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by ourcommunity guidelinesfor posting your comments.
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.

Title: No title found
