Title: Clashes Erupt between Taliban, Daesh North of Afghanistan - World news - Tasnim News Agency
According to local officials, Daesh elements ambushed two villages of ‘Gardan’ and ‘Shirbeyk’ in the Qush Tapa district of northern Jawzjan province on Tuesday.
In the armed conflict with Taliban, eight Daesh elements were killed and 15 others were injured, Qush Tapa governor, Aminollah said.
He noted that seven Taliban members have also been injured in the armed struggle with Daesh elements.
Afghanistan’s Taliban has not issued any statement regarding this armed conflict with Daesh.
The longstanding conflict between the Taliban and Daesh has intensified in recent months.
In June 2017, Daesh declared war on the Taliban, describing the Afghan group as “hypocrites and stooges of the unbelievers.”
A few days later, Taliban Spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid told Tasnim that the Taliban are resolved to target Daesh.


Title: To Cultivate Taliban’s Trust, Afghanistan Working On Releasing Prisoners
Print
In order to build trust with the Taliban, Afghanistan is working to bring back insurgent detainees from neighboring Pakistan.
The plan, still being shaped, is part of a broader effort to entice the insurgents into negotiations to end their 16-year war against Kabul.
Under the plan, Afghan Taliban detainees would be released from Pakistani custody in exchange for Pakistani militants currently detained in Afghanistan. The two sides are also working to secure the release of Western hostages held by the insurgents.
In a sign the exchange would be significant for the insurgents, a senior Afghan security official privy to the discussions with Islamabad told Radio Mashaal that the proposed exchange includes high-profile Taliban leaders such as the movement’s former deputy leader, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, Mullah Ahmadullah Muti (alias Mullah Nanai), Mullah Sulaiman Agha, and Mullah Abdul Samad Sani. The official requested anonymity because he is not authorized to discuss such sensitive deliberations with the media.
“The aim is to bring back influential Taliban leaders to help convince insurgents on the ground to lay down their weapons,” he said. “It will also help convey the message that we are sincere about reaching a political deal [with the insurgents].”
Abdul Hakim Mujahid, a former Taliban diplomat and senior member of the Afghan High Peace Council, says Kabul wants to use the release of detainees to build confidence with Pakistan while also trying to oblige the Taliban.
“I don’t think the detained Taliban leaders could directly help end violence; however, I believe this would bridge the gap between the government and the Taliban,” he told Radio Mashaal.
Kabul is not only seeking the release of Taliban detainees. It also wants to free Afghan and Western hostages held by the insurgent group.
Mohammad Amin Waqad, deputy head of the Afghan High Peace Council, says Kabul and Islamabad are working on a mechanism for exchanging detainees because no such agreement exists.
“If Pakistan sincerely wants to cooperate in peace talks, then freeing Taliban prisoners should not be a problem,” he told Radio Mashaal. “On the other hand, the Taliban also have people in their custody. For confidence-building measures, some people could be released first, which could then be followed by releasing high-profile detainees,” he said.
The current Taliban hostages include a Western couple, Canadian Joshua Boyle and his American wife, Caitlin Coleman. They were kidnapped in Afghanistan’s central Wardak Province in 2012. Last year, the Taliban abducted an American and an Australian from Kabul, Kevin King and Timothy John Weeks, who taught at the American University of Afghanistan.
While Islamabad has not elaborated on the detainee exchanges, a statement by the Pakistani military’s media wing said Islamabad and Kabul agreed on joint efforts at an October 1 meeting between Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and Pakistani Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa.
“Both sides agreed on the framework for working toward a peaceable environment conducive to the political process essential for enduring Afghan peace and regional stability,” the statement noted.
The Afghan National Security Council noted that Afghan National Security Adviser Hanif Atmar and Pakistani Foreign Minister Khwaja Muhammad Asif discussed the release of Taliban detainees at a September 21 meeting.
“The two sides also discussed [militant] sanctuaries in Pakistan and the exchange of top five Taliban leaders detained in Pakistan,” the council said in a September 28 statement.
Talking to Pakistan’s GEO TV, Asif confirmed Kabul had provided a list of 78 Taliban leaders either in Pakistani custody or reportedly living in the country. Earlier this year, the Pakistani military gave Kabul a similar list of 76 Pakistani Taliban militants allegedly hiding in Afghanistan.
The senior Afghan security official who requested anonymity says the prisoner swap is part of proposals both sides are working on to end the war in Afghanistan.
“These proposals include access to detainees, releasing prisoners, military coordination including intelligence sharing, and better border management,” he said.
The official said both sides agreed to try to involve the Taliban in peace talks. “Pakistanis will reach out to the Taliban, who could be influenced by them, and Afghans will reach out to others who are willing to work with Kabul,” he noted.
Radio Mashaal has learned that former Taliban diplomat Mullah Abdul Salam Zaeef is now in Qatar on behalf of the Afghan government. He is meeting Taliban representatives at the group’s political office in the country’s capital, Doha.
“We are going to ask whether the Taliban want to work as a political party. If yes, we could work on making that happens,” Waqad said.
The new diplomatic push to reset relations between Afghanistan and Pakistan comes after U.S. President Donald Trump called on Islamabad to stop supporting the Taliban and other insurgent groups.
“Pakistan has much to gain from partnering with our effort in Afghanistan. It has much to lose by continuing to harbor criminals and terrorists,” Trump said in his August 21 speech outlining his administration’s new strategy for Afghanistan and South Asia.
Islamabad now appears to be striving to offset the pressure from Washington and NATO’s demands over militant sanctuaries. The country’s foreign minister, Asif, is keen on telling Western capitals that his country now sees vital interests in peace and stability in Afghanistan.
"Ensuring security in Afghanistan is critical for the [South Asian] region," he told a think tank audience in Washington on October 5. "We will be the biggest beneficiary of peace in Afghanistan."
Ayaz Wazir, a former Pakistani diplomat, says a detainee exchange could help boost confidence between Kabul and Islamabad.
“This could lead to concrete results to curb violence in the region,” he said.
as/fg
​
Bashir Ahmad Gwakh is a correspondent for RFE/RL’s Radio Mashaal. He is based in Prague and reports on Pakistan and Afghanistan.



Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty © 2024 RFE/RL, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Title: US, Afghanistan Urge Taliban to Seek Peace as War Enters 17th Year
Print
The United States has formally handed over two UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters to the Afghan Air Force as part of a plan to increase its capability and sustainability in counter-Taliban operations.
The handover ceremony took place at the airfield in Kandahar as the U.S.-led international military intervention in Afghanistan entered its 17th year Saturday, with no end in sight for the war against an Islamist insurgency.
Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, in accepting the new aircraft, called it a "historic day" and used the occasion to urge the Taliban to end the violence.
Ghani said if the Taliban thinks it can defeat Afghan security forces, it needs to abandon the idea in the wake of the growing strength of Afghanistan's national army and police forces.
"End the war, stop bloodshed. The way forward for you is to negotiate a political solution," the Afghan leader asserted.
'Beginning of the end'
General John W. Nicholson Jr., the top U.S. military commander in Afghanistan, echoed Ghani's words, saying the Taliban cannot win on the battlefield.
"Doubling of the Afghan special operations forces and the tripling of the Air Force, increasing offensive power of the Afghan National Army, all mean one thing: This is the beginning of the end for the Taliban," the NATO commander said.
Washington plans to supply a total of 159 Black Hawks to the Afghan government by 2024, including 58 fitted with extra battlefield weaponry to provide close air support to ground forces.The Black Hawk will eventually replace the aging Russian-made MI-17 helicopters currently in use by the Afghan Air Force.
A Taliban spokesman promptly responded to statements by Ghani and Nicholson and reminded them "our fight is not based on technology but is an ideologically motivated fight."
In a separate statement issued in connection with the October 7, 2001, U.S.-led invasion of Afghanistan, which ousted the Taliban from power, the Islamist insurgency vowed to defeat and force "all occupying troops" out of the country.
"The best way forward for the American invaders is to understand realities, respect freedom of other nations, prevent further human and material losses, end the longest war in your history ... withdraw your occupation forces ... and stop throwing yourself into the ditch of destruction by insisting on arrogance," the Taliban said.
The Taliban currently controls or influences more than 40 percent of Afghanistan.


Title: Closing the Taliban’s Office in Qatar Would Be a Historic Mistake - Defense One
This June 18, 2013, file photo shows a general view of the Taliban office before the official opening in Doha, Qatar.Associated Press / Osama Faisal

Stay Connected
Jarrett Blanc
President Trump and Afghan President Ashraf Ghani agreed last week to ask the government of Qatar to shutter the Afghan Taliban’s political commission office in Doha.
Following through would be a historic mistake. It would foreclose on the possibility of a negotiated settlement, the only realistic and honorable way to end America’s longest war.
There is no military solution in Afghanistan, only a political one. That sounds like a platitude, but it is also true. Sixteen years have proven that the government of Afghanistan cannot defeat the Taliban, even with massive international military assistance. Modest changes to U.S. force posture will not change that.
Fortunately, the Afghan Taliban do not need to be the enemy. They have committed terrible crimes against civilians, but they are not al Qaeda. They do not have international ambitions and have not committed international terrorist acts. The U.S. should be able to reach a settlement with them and help the government of Afghanistan to do the same. Taliban forces, working as part of the legitimate government, can help police the territory they control, preventing it from harboring international terrorists.
Negotiating with the Taliban will be difficult. In addition to addressing U.S. national security interests, any settlement must protect the remarkable gains the government of Afghanistan has made since 9/11 – most importantly, the unprecedented opportunities women and girls in Afghanistan now have. That may sound farfetched, but war in Afghanistan does not protect Afghan human rights.
Even before getting to the substance, the U.S. and its allies will need to figure out how to talk to the Taliban. This is a common problem in insurgencies. Finding legitimate representatives of illegal groups is complicated, to the profit of scam artists. Famously, in 2010 U.S. forces provided secure transportation (and piles of cash) to a man claiming to be Mullah Mansour, then one of senior-most Taliban leaders. The “negotiator” turned out to be a clever shop keeper. Other misadventures were tragic, as suicide bombers posed as emissaries.
We know that the Taliban representatives in Doha are different, because we tested them. The political office has been operating in Doha since 2010 – unofficially, but with U.S. and international endorsement. Qatar allows them to meet with international representatives and Afghan political actors while barring anything that promotes violence, including fundraising.
As the Principal Deputy Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, I inherited a multi-year effort to begin negotiations with the Taliban through Doha. In 2014, after many false starts, we secured a prisoner exchange that brought home Bowe Bergdahl, the only U.S. soldier in Taliban custody, sending five former Taliban commanders from Guantanamo Bay to a kind of house arrest in Qatar. Whatever you believe about the merits of that deal, it holds important lessons about how to communicate with the Taliban.
It was never obvious that the political office would be able to deliver. Its members speak English and are relatively worldly. Many U.S. officials doubted that they spoke for the hard men doing the fighting.
The Bergdahl trade was a hard test case. Sergeant Bergdahl was held by the Haqqani network, but the most important Guantanamo detainees were associated with other parts of the Taliban. Would the Haqqanis release their prize for little in return? Could the Taliban communicate effectively with their forces on the ground – let alone control them?
Yes. The Taliban executed their part of the agreement immediately. The political office proved itself capable of handling basic diplomatic functions. Like the U.S. negotiating team, they were not the final decision makers, but they relayed messages to their leadership, stayed within the limits of their instructions, and made a deal they could keep.
The U.S. should have seized that moment to begin a broader negotiation. Unfortunately, Washington was instead gripped by a partisan fight over Bergdahl. Worse, immediately after the detainee exchange, Afghanistan had to wrestle through a disputed presidential election, absorbing Kabul’s political attention. The parties to the conflict were not positioned to negotiate further.
Since then, the Taliban have acknowledged the death of their founding leader, Mullah Omar. His replacement, Mullah Mansour – the real one – was killed by a U.S. strike. There are strong indications, though, that the Taliban structure has maintained continuity and coherence. The political office needs to be tested again, but it should not simply be discarded.
In August, when President Trump announced his new approach to Afghanistan, he and Secretary Tillerson highlighted the need for a peace process. This wasechoed by the U.S. military commander on the ground, General Nicholson, who said, “We are determined to pursue the goal of a political settlement.”
So far, the Administration’s actions have not been fit to this purpose. The State Departmenthas closedthe office of the Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, which the Taliban and others certainly interpret as a signal that negotiations are not a priority. Imagine how the Taliban will interpret U.S. pressure to shut down their political representatives in Qatar.
And although the Administration can staff up a team to handle negotiations any time they are ready, they will not be able to conjure up credible new interlocutors on the Taliban side.
Closing the Taliban’s political office would also cut against the Administration’s stated goal of pressuring Pakistan. The U.S. has only modest leverage in Islamabad, capital of a nuclear power that controls the main supply routes to NATO troops in Afghanistan. Limiting Pakistan’s ability to use the Taliban against U.S. and Afghan interests is one of the most important things the U.S. actually can do to blunt their influence. Strategically, that means a negotiated settlement. Tactically, it means preserving the Doha office, the only Taliban leadership outpost outside of Pakistan.
The political office in Doha should not be closed. Instead, it should be used to open a direct negotiation to end the war.
NEXT STORY:Rex Tillerson Must Go
Help us tailor content specifically for you:

Title: US asks NATO to send more troops to Afghanistan
KABUL - TheUSwill askNATOmembers to contribute about 1,000 extra troops to help in the battle against the Taliban militant group inAfghanistan, the newUSambassador to the military alliance says.
The additionalNATOtroops would add to the roughly 3,000USforces already on their way toAfghanistanunderUSPresident Donald Trump's new strategy against the Taliban, Kay Bailey Hutchison said Thursday.
Pakistan Navy Warships held joint military drill with UAE Navy
The United States already has about 8,400 troops in the country alongside another 5,000 fromNATOforces.
Taliban militants have warned that they will be stepping up their attacks until theUSand otherNATOmembers fully withdraw fromAfghanistanafter more than a decade and half of occupation.
PTI Chairman Imran Khan to face Military Trial
Back in 2014, the US-led occupying forces inAfghanistanofficially announced the end of their combat operations in the country, saying they now had a mission to “train, advise, and assist” Afghan troops.
However, the Trump’s administration recently permitted the deployment of an additional 3,000 troops toAfghanistanto engage with the Taliban.
Trump who had previously called for withdrawal of American troops fromAfghanistanargued that his "original instinct was to pull out," but that he was convinced by his national security team to take on the Taliban militants.
Imran Khan to be court martialed along with former ISI Chief Faiz Hameed?
The United States -- under Republican George W. Bush’s presidency -- and its allies invadedAfghanistanon October 7, 2001 as part of Washington’s so-called war on terror. The offensive removed the Taliban regime from power, but after 16 years, the foreign troops are still deployed to the country.
After becoming the president in 2008, President Barack Obama, a Democrat, vowed to end the Afghan war -- one of the longest conflicts inUShistory – but he failed to keep his promise.


Title: Taliban’s Qatar Office Engaged in ‘Spreading Terror Activities’ in Afghanistan | Ariana News
‘Engagement is key’ with Afghanistan, says UN political chief
UN chief says new laws ‘strip Afghan women and girls’ of all their rights
IEA blasts UN for not being invited to United Nations General Assembly
Iran walls off part of border with Afghanistan
IEA extends condolences to Iran following deadly coal mine explosion
Biden designates UAE as a second major defense partner after India
Israeli troops raid, order closure of Al Jazeera’s West Bank bureau
Top Hezbollah commander among 14 killed in Israeli strike on Beirut
More than 100 killed or missing as Sinaloa Cartel war rages in Mexico
Israel unleashes heavy strikes on Lebanon as US, UK urge restraint
Iran’s Guards ban communications devices after strike on Hezbollah
Pakistan picks new chief of powerful spy agency ISI
Sri Lankans elect Marxist-leaning Dissanayake as president to fix economy
At least 30 dead in Iran coal mine explosion
Iran gave Russia missiles but no launchers, sources say
Tahawol: Kabul-Islamabad ties discussed
Tahawol: 79th session of UN General Assembly discussed
Tahawol: UNSC meeting on situation in Afghanistan reviewed
Tahawol: Central Asian countries’ demand to engage with Afghanistan discussed
Tahawol: UNSC to hold meeting on Afghanistan discussed
Trade between Afghanistan and Pakistan drops sharply
Construction of 252 MVA substation in Kabul’s Tarakhel gets underway
Energy minister, Indian company talk handover of Arghandi 500 KV substation
Baradar hails Termez Trade Center as a ‘new chapter’ in Afghan-Uzbek partnership
Bayat Power in talks with Afghan officials for Phase 2 of gas to electricity project
Afghan national cricket players return to Kabul after ODI series win against South Africa
France accused of ‘match-fixing’ over dismal performance against Iran at Futsal World Cup
South Africa win last game of ODI series against Afghanistan
Afghanistan advance to knockout stage of FIFA Futsal World Cup in Uzbekistan
Afghanistan’s Futsal WC fate hangs in balance
Did the US just get lured into war with the Houthis?
OPED: Is the West’s conscience being overshadowed by its political ego?
Peace won’t be found in silence or fear, says AIHRC chair
OPINION: The awful truth about growing up in Afghanistan
Published
on
By
The Taliban political office in Qatar concentrates more on spreading terrorist activities in Afghanistan than having impact on the process of Afghan peace talks with the group, a government source told Ariana News Wednesday.
“The Taliban Qatar office is ineffective to the pave the way for peace talks and its negative role is more prominent, therefore, it has concentrated more on spreading terror activities [in Afghanistan],” the source said.
The Taliban opened their Doha office in 2013, following the support of the U.S., Afghan and Qatari governments. The political leaders hoped the move would set the stage for peace negotiation between the Taliban and the Afghan government.
However, recently reports emerged that U.S. President Donald Trump is pushing the Afghan President Ashraf Ghani to agree on closure of the Taliban office which has been a channel for dialogue for more than six years.
Qatar said the office has operated with U.S. and Afghan consent. “As with the opening of the office, any decision on the future of it rests with both the Government of the United States and the Government of Afghanistan,” said Sheikh Saif Bin Ahmed Al-Thani, director of the Qatari government’s communications office, cited by Wall Street Journal.
“No matter the decision, Qatar will remain America’s strongest ally in the region, working to defeat terrorism and resolve global conflicts,” he said.
Some Afghan political analysts believe if the Taliban’s Qatar office was closed, the group will lose its “independency” status.
“The closure Qatar office will harm the dialogue [process] and will encourage the Taliban to fight further,” said Jawid Kohistani. “They will lose independency and will rely upon Pakistan again.”
It comes as Trump unveiled a new strategy for Afghanistan that will surge U.S. troops’ presence and to repel Taliban advances across the country.
ByShakib Mahmudand Rafi Sediqi
New Year’s Eve 2020 Celebrations Across the World
‘Engagement is key’ with Afghanistan, says UN political chief
Afghan national cricket players return to Kabul after ODI series win against South Africa
IEA blasts UN for not being invited to United Nations General Assembly
Trade between Afghanistan and Pakistan drops sharply
Iran walls off part of border with Afghanistan
IEA hoping to attend next BRICS meeting
Rosemary DiCarlo said the situation has been complicated by the IEA’s new morality law
Published
on
By
The head of UN political affairs, Rosemary DiCarlo, on Monday warned that the Doha process is at risk given the Islamic Emirate’s increasing restrictive policies.
Addressing a meeting on women’s rights in New York, ahead of the UN General Assembly, she said the Doha process “entails a step-for-step approach” with the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (IEA), requiring them to, for example, make governance more inclusive, and to respect women’s and girl’s rights.
In exchange, the international community would then incrementally ease restrictions and provide development support.
DiCarlo said the situation has been complicated by the IEA’s new morality law.
“We had Member States willing to engage, willing to go forward with a step-for-step project. However, I think we risk right now of ending this process,” she warned.
“At this point, those who've been participating in our process want to continue, but they really expect the Taliban (IEA) to take part in good faith, and they've got to start abiding by their international obligations.”
She emphasized that “engagement is key”, stressing that “we cannot let Afghan women and men down.”
The general debate of the 79th session of the General Assembly opened Tuesday, 24 September, and will continue through Saturday, 28 September, and conclude on Monday, 30 September 2024.
The theme for the general debate of the 79th session of the General Assembly is "Leaving no one behind: acting together for the advancement of peace, sustainable development and human dignity for present and future generations".


The UN chief stressed that the oppression of women undermines Afghanistan’s development
Published
on
By
UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres on Monday warned that Afghanistan’s new laws "strip Afghan women and girls of their rights and freedoms across the board," and are causing harm to the nation.
Speaking on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly in New York, Guterres said there was "a deep crisis of gender-based discrimination and oppression" against women in Afghanistan.
"Afghan women and girls are largely confined to their homes, with no freedom of movement and almost no access to education or work," said the UN chief.
Stating that Afghan women also suffer high rates of violence, honor killings, and rising maternal mortality, he said many feel "unsafe, isolated and powerless."
The UN chief stressed that the oppression of women undermines Afghanistan's development and said: "Extreme gender-based discrimination is not only a systematic abuse of women and girls and a violation of human rights conventions and laws. It is self-harm on a national scale."
He called on Afghan authorities to remove all restrictions against women and girls, reopen schools, and allow women to fully participate in society.
"Without recognizing the rights of one-half of its population, Afghanistan will never take its rightful place on the global stage," Guterres said.
The ruling Islamic Emirate has however repeatedly said that women’s rights are ensured in Afghanistan in accordance with Sharia law.
Zia Ahmad Takal, Deputy Spokesman of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said the absence of an IEA representative at the summit was a violation of the rights of the people of Afghanistan.
Published
on
By
Afghanistan’s foreign ministry has lashed out at the United Nations for not inviting an Islamic Emirate representative to attend the 79th UN General Assembly which gets underway in New York on Tuesday.
Zia Ahmad Takal, Deputy Spokesman of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said the absence of an IEA representative at the summit was a violation of the rights of the people of Afghanistan.
He said given the situation in the country, positive decisions should be made by the international community with regards to the country.
The Islamic Emirate appointed Suhail Shaheen as the permanent representative of Afghanistan to the United Nations, but the UN has not yet handed over the seat to the IEA.
The 79th UN General Assembly, deemed one of the largest global diplomatic events, will get underway on Tuesday in New York.
The General Assembly is held annually at UN headquarters in New York, bringing together the heads of state and government of member states. It is to take place from Sept. 24 to 30.
The 79th session will be opened by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and will be chaired by Cameroonian President Philemon Yong.
At least 133 heads of state and government, three vice presidents, 80 deputy prime ministers and 45 ministers are expected to attend.
UN leaders are meeting as numerous crises, conflicts and wars play out around the world.
Many of these, including Gaza, Ukraine, Sudan and Haiti crises are expected to be on the agenda.
On Gaza, along with emphasizing a cease-fire, member states are expected to highlight Israel’s violations of international law and UN resolutions, as well as the difficulties in delivering humanitarian aid to the region, Anadolu reported.
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas is scheduled to speak the morning of Sept. 26, while Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is scheduled for the afternoon.
This year, the main theme of the UN General Assembly discussions is "Leaving no one behind: acting together for the advancement of peace, sustainable development and human dignity for present and future generations."
"Today's global order simply does not work for everyone. In fact, I would go further and say: it's not working for anyone," said Guterres.
Therefore, it is expected that leaders will address the reform of the Security Council and the international financial architecture.

Pakistani minister calls for increased foreign aid for Afghan refugees
Iran through to knockout phase after defeating Guatemala in Futsal World Cup
South Africa confirms it will continue playing bilateral cricket with Afghanistan
Israel unleashes heavy strikes on Lebanon as US, UK urge restraint
Tahawol: UNSC meeting on situation in Afghanistan reviewed
Miller accuses House Republicans of subpoenaing Blinken over Afghanistan when he’s away
More than 100 killed or missing as Sinaloa Cartel war rages in Mexico
Afghanistan hand South Africa another heavy defeat
Copyright © 2024 Ariana News. All rights reserved!

Title: US to ask NATO for 1,000 more troops for Afghanistan
WORLDWEST ASIAASIA-PACIFICAFRICAUSEUROPEUKAMERICASSOCIETYARTSSPORTSCONVERSATIONS
IRANPOLITICSECONOMYENERGYNUCLEAR ENERGYCULTUREDEFENSESPORTSDEFINITIVE REVENGEPEOPLE'S PRESIDENT
SHOWS10 MINUTESAFRICA TODAYECONOMIC DIVIDEFACE TO FACEIN A NUTSHELLHIDDEN FILESIRANIRAN TECHIRAN TODAYMIDEASTREAMPALESTINE DECLASSIFIEDSPOTLIGHTEYE ON ISLAMBLACK AND WHITETHE CONVERSATIONISRAEL WATCHBROADCAST THE WEBEXPOSÉEXPLAINERHAVE IT OUT WITH GALLOWAY!SOBH
#
The US will ask NATO members to contribute about 1,000 extra troops to help in the battle against the Taliban militant group in Afghanistan, the new US ambassador to the military alliance says.
The additional NATO troops would add to the roughly 3,000 US forces already on their way to Afghanistan under US President Donald Trump's new strategy against the Taliban, Kay Bailey Hutchison said Thursday.
The United States already has about 8,400 troops in the country alongside another 5,000 from NATO forces.
Taliban militants have warned that they will be stepping up their attacks until the US and other NATO members fully withdraw from Afghanistan after more than a decade and half of occupation.
Back in 2014, the US-led occupying forces in Afghanistan officially announced the end of their combat operations in the country, saying they now had a mission to “train, advise, and assist” Afghan troops.
However, the Trump’s administration recently permitted the deployment of an additional 3,000 troops to Afghanistan to engage with the Taliban.
Trump who had previously called for withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan argued that his "original instinct was to pull out," but that he was convinced by his national security team to take on the Taliban militants.
The United States -- under Republican George W. Bush’s presidency -- and its allies invaded Afghanistan on October 7, 2001 as part of Washington’s so-called war on terror. The offensive removed the Taliban regime from power, but after 16 years, the foreign troops are still deployed to the country.
After becoming the president in 2008, President Barack Obama, a Democrat, vowed to end the Afghan war -- one of the longest conflicts in US history – but he failed to keep his promise.
US Defense Secretary Jim Mattis said Tuesday that an American withdrawal from Afghanistan would be "to our ultimate peril."
"Based on intelligence community analysis and my own evaluation, I am convinced we would absent ourselves from this region at our peril," Mattis said while briefing the US Congress on plans to increase American troop levels in the South Asian country.
Press TV’s website can also be accessed at the following alternate addresses:
www.presstv.co.uk
IOS :
1. Click the "share" button in the bottom bar
2. Select the "Add to home screen" option
3. Click "Add" at the top
ANDROID :
1. Click the "..." button
2. Select the "Add to home screen" option
Ok!

Title: ISKP: another emerging giant? - Newspaper - DAWN.COM

WITH rapid pace, the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) is trying to fill the vacuum created by a fading Al Qaeda. ISKP’s increased presence in Afghanistan and its claiming responsibility for some terrorist acts, the declaration of allegiance to it by some Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) dissidents and the reported collaboration between ISKP and a few terrorist groups have increased insecurity.
In the presence of the Tehreek-i-Taliban Afghanistan (Afghan Taliban), the Jamaatul Ahrar (JuA), the Tariq Geedar Group and the Lashkar-i-Islam (LI), how did ISKP manage to attract militants into its fold and capture operational space? Why is this region a magnet for external narratives?
Over the last few months, ISKP has increased its influence in Afghanistan and has been trying to develop a nexus with the JuA, the Lashkar-i-Jhangvi al-Alami (LJA), and the Jaishul Adal. The JuA cultivated a good rapport with ISKP. While shuttling between Nangarhar and Kunar, ISKP fighters pass through Chaknawar, Goshta and Shonkray — JuA strongholds. Apart from being provided safe passage by the JuA, several rounds of negotiation have been held for possible merger between the groups though these ended without results.
During the last few months, the group has increased its influence in Afghanistan.
Unlike the Afghan Taliban and TTP, so far ISKP is not facing factionalism. But in the near future, inner wrangling for the slot of ISKP emir may take place amongst the Bajauri, Swati, Orakzai and Uzbek factions. In the case of further weakening of the militant Islamic State group in Syria, those elements may also aspire for space in the command structure.
The death of Mullah Omar and the 10-month tenure of his successor Mullah Akhtar Mansour was a serious blow to the Afghan Taliban. The hasty elevation of Mansour to the coveted slot of emir had caused a split. One faction leaned towards Mullah Yaqoob (son of Mullah Omar) and another was led by Akhtar Mansour. Annoyed elements looked for space in new berths, eg ISKP. In 2015-16, massive changes among the Afghan Taliban’s field commanders were observed. The unsatisfactory conduct of a few new commanders created a negative impression. Further, the majority of the newly appointed commanders did not have a ‘jihadi’ background. Such factors provided space to ISKP. Then, since the group advocates the Salafi school of thought, in the presence of the majority of the population affiliated with the Ahle Hadith in Nangarhar, Nuristan and Kunar, it did not face any hurdles.
In Afghanistan, in the Nazian, Achin, Kot, Deh Bala and Speen Ghar districts of Nangarhar, ISKP is striving to introduce an ‘operational caliphate’. The group’s presence in Nuristan, Kunar and Nangarhar may affect security and peace in the adjoining areas of Dir, Chitral, Bajaur, Mohmand and Khyber agencies in Pakistan. Operations Zarb-i-Azb and Khyber-IV effectively contained the influence of the militants. With the collaboration of the JuA, LJA and Jaishul Islam, ISKP may stage a sectarian regrouping. The situation warrants the prevention of a formal nexus between ISKP, the JuA and LJA.
If ISKP establishes its hold in Afghanistan, it may also attract the attention of Pakistan-based Salafi seminaries. Owing to its sectarian bias, its linkages with Sipah-i-Sahaba Pakistan and Lashkar-e-Jhangvi cannot be ruled out. Its presence in Nangarhar may affect peace in Khyber and Kurram agencies.
In its formative phase, ISKP tried to establish itself in the northern parts of Afghanistan. Balkh lies between the Kunduz and Jowzjan provinces that provide land access to Badakhshan. If ISKP succeeds in gaining a foothold in Kunduz, it may jeopardise Chinese interests in the region. Chitral and Gilgit-Baltistan are areas adjoining Nuristan and Badakhshan; in such a scenario, the security of these areas requires more intensified patrolling and the procurement of intelligence and strict border management.
In the present scenario, the possibility of a nexus between Mullah Fazlullah’s TTP and ISKP does not seem to be a practical option. In case the TTP joins ISKP, this may undermine the justification for the former’s existence.
The LI seems to be warming towards ISKP, as it is vigorously opposed by Nangarhar-based local militants loyal to Zahir Qadeer. Given a history of friction with the Afghan Taliban and the animosity vis-à-vis local Afghan militants, the LI is left with limited choices. The dilemma it faces is that by moving closer to ISKP, it may seriously antagonise the Afghan government.
For ISKP, the major concern is its short-lived command. The loss of two emirs within less than a year is a serious blow. Even so, in the presence of an effective shura, no significant change in its policy and strategy was noticed. Although ISKP is in contact with the core IS group, in operational matters it seems autonomous.
For ISKP to establish itself in Afghanistan requires simultaneous combat with the Afghan Taliban and the Afghan security forces. After facing the onslaught of US and allied forces in Syria and Iraq, ISKP was in search of safe havens in Afghanistan. After the anticipated demise of the IS ‘caliphate’ in Iraq and Syria, ISKP may make another effort in parts of what is referred to as Khorasan. For Afghan forces, the real challenge is to prevent such a transit.
According to the Story Maps website, during 2017 in Afghanistan, ISKP carried out 16 attacks, killing 276 persons. Eight attacks were carried out in Kabul and six in Jalalabad. In Pakistan, ISKP targeted the shrine in Sehwan and the police training college in Quetta, resulting in the death of 150 people. It would appear that ISKP primarily selects soft targets. It uses the social media for inspiration, propaganda, and connectivity. The group is a phenomenon that hounds the entire region, eclipsing all other militant groups in brutality and ambition. It is high time the region realised that ISKP cannot be defeated in isolation. Hence the gravity of the threat needs to be reassessed and responded to accordingly.
The writer is a police officer
Twitter:@alibabakhel
Published in Dawn, October 16th, 2017
Compunode.com Pvt. Ltd. (www.compunode.com).Designed forDawn.
Copyright © 2024, Dawn
NewsKit Publishing Platform

Title: ISIS attacks Shiites, but Afghans resist push to make conflict religious - CSMonitor.com
Our name is about honesty. The Monitor is owned by The Christian Science Church, and we’ve always been transparent about that.
The Church publishes the Monitor because it sees good journalism as vital to progress in the world. Since 1908, we’ve aimed “to injure no man, but to bless all mankind,” as our founder, Mary Baker Eddy, put it.
Here, you’ll find award-winning journalism not driven by commercial influences – a news organization that takes seriously its mission to uplift the world by seeking solutions and finding reasons for credible hope.
A deeper view that unites instead of divides, connecting why the story matters to you.
Behind the news are values that drive people and nations. Explore them here.
Discover the values that drive the story.
The widening conflict in the Middle East and the war in Ukraine continue to hold the world’s attention. But numerous other conflicts garner far less attention as they grind on around the globe – testing the sense of those caught up in them that their lives, in fact, matter.Today, we visit with residents of a camp in the Democratic Republic of Congo whose lives have been utterly upended by dehumanizing conflict. Yet they hold to dignity, very intentionally asserting even in mourning that each life in their community holds value and has meaning.
The Christian Science Monitor's coverage of the war between Hamas and Israel, and related articles.
A deeper view that unites instead of divides, connecting why the story matters to you.
We want to bridge divides to reach everyone.
Already a subscriber?Log in to hide ads.
Afghanistan's 16-year war has been political, not sectarian. But the Afghan branch of ISIS is trying to drive a different dynamic, related to its view of Shiites as infidels and the participation of some Afghan Shiites in fighting ISIS in Syria.
Loading...
Updated Oct. 11, 2017, 11:43 a.m. ET|Kabul, Afghanistan
This story was updated on Oct. 11.
The Islamic State suicide bomber disguised himself as a shepherd as he approached his target: A Shiite mosque in north central Kabul.
It was Friday, Sept. 29, on the eve of one of the holiest days on the Shiite calendar.
Stopped by civilian guards who just days before had been issued five Kalashnikov AK-47 assault rifles, expressly to defend Shiite sites during Ashura commemorations, the bomber detonated himself 200 yards from the mosque, killing six people.
Without the guards’ vigilance, the toll in the latest ISIS attack on Afghanistan’s minority Shiite community could have been far higher.
Throughout Afghanistan’s 16-year war, the primary fight has been between the Taliban insurgency and the government and US and NATO forces, as well as Taliban expansion across one-third of Afghan territory. The fight has been political, not sectarian, with even the Taliban seeing a sectarian conflict as counterproductive to its ultimate aims.
But recently the Afghan branch of ISIS, which calls itself Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), has grown in potency, especially taking aim at Shiites. Why now?
One basic factor is their Sunni jihadist ideology that deems Shiites to be infidels. Butanother is revenge by ISIS for the procession of thousands of Afghans – most of them ethnic Hazaras, and other Shiite Afghans – who have been recruited by Iran to fight against ISIS in Syria, analysts say.
Though ISKP currently accounts for a fraction of incidents in the Afghan war, at less than 5 percent, the resulting volatility risks changing the character of the battle.
“Most of the violence we’ve seen in Afghanistan is political, and this is an attempt to tip it over into a broader ethnic or sectarian conflict, which is why it is so dangerous,” says a Western official in Kabul who asked not to be further identified because of his work.

“There is a real effort by some actors here, like Daesh, to make this a sectarian war, just strike after strike on Shiite targets,” says the official, using the Arabic acronym for ISIS. Conditions have become so bad that efforts are under way to raise a new militia, with government and NATO approval, to protect Shiite shrines.
The plan to distribute 2,500 guns mostly to Shiite groups to protect their own religious sites is controversial, because of Afghanistan’s past experience with abusive militias.
“Of all the various militias, this one is perhaps more justified because you’re arming a visible minority that is obviously being targeted by the ongoing violence,” says the official.
Some 200 assault rifles were rush-issued before Ashura, when Shiites traditionally march between shrines to mark the 7th-century death of Imam Hossein, the grandson of the Muslim prophet Muhammad, who is revered by Shiites as “lord of the martyrs.”
Shiite mosques have been targeted at least seven times since mid-2016, with five such attacks this year, according to a tabulation by the Afghanistan Analysts Network (AAN). Among other non-mosque attacks, in July 2016 a suicide bomber struck a street protest organized by Hazara activists in Kabul, killing at least 80.
Afghan security forces have grappled with territorial losses to the Taliban in rural areas and with massive Taliban strikes in the capital on government and Western targets, including a rush-hour truck bomb near the German Embassy in May that killed more than 150 people.
ISIS hostility to Shiites has frequently marked the battlefields of Syria and Iraq, with the slaughter of some 1,700 Shiite Iraqi conscripts in Tikrit in June 2014 anotable example.
But that anti-Shiite conviction has been intensified by the instrumental role that Shiite Iran has played in mobilizing Shiite militias to fight against ISIS in Iraq and alongside forces of President Bashar al-Assad in Syria.
Among those Shiite militias, the Iran-created Fatemioun Brigade is entirely Afghan,recruitedfrom among Afghan refugees in Iran, and inside Afghanistan itself, with cash, jobs, and even promises of Iranian citizenship. ISIS and ISKP propaganda both accuse Afghan Shiites of helping the “enemy.”
"For this reason the [Shiite] Hazara community … is [considered to be] the enemy because some Hazara fighters are in the battleground … in Syria, alongside the Assad regime against ISIS,” says Obaid Ali, an AAN analyst in Kabul.
When ISKP first emerged in Afghanistan and proclaimed loyalty to the ISIS leadership in Raqqa, Syria, ISIS delegations were sent to Afghanistan in 2015 and early 2016 to forge channels between Raqqa and ISKP, and to convince the Taliban to pledge allegiance to ISIS.
“That was largely ignored by the Taliban side,” says Mr. Ali. “Once they sent a specific delegation to … ask the Taliban not to allow Hazara fighters to go to Iran and join the Assad regime in Syria. And that, again, was largely ignored by the Taliban.”
The Taliban, who draw the bulk of their support from ultra-conservative Sunni Pashtuns, have their own reasons for not wanting to spark sectarian war at home, not least because they see the Hazaras and other Shiites as part of a nation they want to fully control.
ISKP attacks on Shiite targets “echo the approach of ‘Daesh Central’” to provoke a broader Sunni vs. Shiite conflict, though it “has not succeeded so far,” wrote AAN in a report last week.
“Indeed, attacks have been followed by calls on all sides for national unity and Muslim brotherhood. That includes the Taliban, who have condemned attacks against Shia worshippers and mosques,” wrote AAN.
Still, the death toll for Afghan Shiites has been rising. One result is that Shiite religious ceremonies like Ashura have grown more elaborate, as Shiite believers inundate streets and intersections with flags and banners to show their strength and numbers.
Another result is self-defense measures taken by a community that has little faith that government security services can or want to protect them. A history of marginalization has contributed, with street protests in 2016 – which were targeted by ISKP – sparked by disputes over a mammoth electricity project bypassing Hazara areas, and a lack of services.
“The terms of the conflict are ethnic, people are angry, they want to show ‘We are here, we are a lot,’” says Daoud Naji, a Hazara activist and a leader of the opposition Enlightenment Movement. But there is also an underlying concern of vulnerability, he says, especially since the Hazara gave up their weapons in disarmament programs more than a decade ago.
“So now every single Hazara is buying the gun, because in the whole of central Afghanistan there is not one unit of the Afghan Army, because there was no violence,” says Mr. Naji.
“People are afraid that if the Americans go as Russia went, and the national government collapses, all other people are armed – so in this case we have to think about saving our lives,” says Naji.
Preventing a worse sectarian shift has been the job of politicians like lawmaker Neamatullah Ghaffari, a Shiite from southern Helmand province.
Deepen your worldviewwithMonitor Highlights.
Already a subscriber?Log in to hide ads.
“Unfortunately the Mideast issues affect our country. Their [ISIS] aim is to bring some differences between Shiites and Sunnis,” says Mr. Ghaffari.
“Those relations between Shia and Sunni are very strong in Afghanistan, unlike in other countries,” he says. “As a scholar of the Shia community, I will do my best to be sure that Shiites do not receive a negative message from those people.”
Already a subscriber?Login
Monitor journalism changes lives because we open that too-small box that most people think they live in. We believe news can and should expand a sense of identity and possibility beyond narrow conventional expectations.
Our work isn't possible without your support.
Already a subscriber?Login


Link copied.
Dear Reader,
About a year ago, I happened upon this statement about the Monitor in the Harvard Business Review – under the charming heading of “do things that don’t interest you”:
“Many things that end up” being meaningful, writes social scientist Joseph Grenny, “have come from conference workshops, articles, or online videos that began as a chore and ended with an insight. My work in Kenya, for example, was heavily influenced by a Christian Science Monitor article I had forced myself to read 10 years earlier. Sometimes, we call things ‘boring’ simply because they lie outside the box we are currently in.”
If you were to come up with a punchline to a joke about the Monitor, that would probably be it. We’re seen as being global, fair, insightful, and perhaps a bit too earnest. We’re the bran muffin of journalism.
But you know what? We change lives. And I’m going to argue that we change lives precisely because we force open that too-small box that most human beings think they live in.
The Monitor is a peculiar little publication that’s hard for the world to figure out. We’re run by a church, but we’re not only for church members and we’re not about converting people. We’re known as being fair even as the world becomes as polarized as at any time since the newspaper’s founding in 1908.
We have a mission beyond circulation, we want to bridge divides. We’re about kicking down the door of thought everywhere and saying, “You are bigger and more capable than you realize. And we can prove it.”
If you’re looking for bran muffin  journalism, you can subscribe to the Monitor for $15. You’ll get the Monitor Weekly magazine, the Monitor Daily email, and unlimited access to CSMonitor.com.
Subscribe to insightful journalism
Already a subscriber?Log in to hide ads.
Follow us:











Title: 
	Afghanistan: Another Victory for Tehran? | Lawfare

The upcoming main navigation can be gotten through utilizing the tab key. Any buttons that open a sub navigation can be triggered by the space or enter key.
Editor’s Note: Iran's support for Syria, presence in Iraq, and enmity toward Irael and U.S. Arab allies is the focus of most U.S. attention. Afghanistan, where Iran plays a major role, is often neglected. As the Trump administration weighs its options there, it would do well to recognize Tehran's ability to do harm. Ariane Tabatabai, my Georgetown colleague, explains Iran's complex calculus in Afghanistan and why the United States might find opportunities as well as dangers.
***
Published byThe Lawfare Institutein Cooperation With
Editor’s Note: Iran's support for Syria, presence in Iraq, and enmity toward Irael and U.S. Arab allies is the focus of most U.S. attention. Afghanistan, where Iran plays a major role, is often neglected. As the Trump administration weighs its options there, it would do well to recognize Tehran's ability to do harm. Ariane Tabatabai, my Georgetown colleague, explains Iran's complex calculus in Afghanistan and why the United States might find opportunities as well as dangers.
***
When the United States initiated what is now its longest war in the fall of 2001, most Americans wouldn’t have fathomed that they’d still be committing blood and treasure to Afghanistan 16 years later, and that Iran would reap the fruits. Yet, as the Trump administration assesses America’s next steps in the faraway country for the next four years, Iranian forces are quietly asserting themselves there, funding groups that shape the contours of country’s politics and security. This makes Iran’s Afghanistan policy critical to shaping America’s own.
According to conventional wisdom, Iranwants to seethe United States and its NATO partners leave Afghanistan. After all, the Islamic Republicreminds usloudly and frequently that it believes foreign powers, particularly the United States, don’t have any business in its neighborhood. And the rise of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and its offshoot in Afghanistan, dubbed the Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP), has provided Tehran with an excuse to further poke Washington in the eye by growing and leveraging its influence in Afghanistan. ISKP’s advent has also afforded the country a pretext to continue to fund and support various groups, including some of the Taliban, to push back its regional adversary, Saudi Arabia—whose support Tehran deems vital to ISIS and ISKP’s growth. This has made Afghanistan into yetanother battlefrontin the proxy war between the two Middle Eastern powers.
Iran doesn’t actually want to see United States and its NATO allies gone from Afghanistan.
But contrary to this conventional wisdom, Iran doesn’t actually want to see United States and its NATO allies gone from Afghanistan. Already in 2001, Tehran welcomed U.S. efforts in Afghanistan and evenlent a handto Washington to topple the Taliban government and facilitate the transition of power. In particular, Iran pushed a critical stakeholder, the Northern Alliance, to make the concessions necessary to making the transition of power successful. This wasn’t because Iran welcomed U.S. and NATO presence at its border. Rather, it shared the U.S. objectives of ridding Afghanistan of the Taliban, pushing back al-Qaeda, and stabilizing the country. After all, a chaotic Afghanistan has direct and wide repercussions for Iran.
Over the past four decades of conflict and instability in Afghanistan, Iran has become home to millions of Afghan refugees and the destination of some of its opioid production, fueling a public health crisis among the Iranian population. Today, the Iranian governmentestimatesthat some 2.8 million Iranians are addicted to drugs, a number many deem inaccurate, noting that this number falls 20 to 30-percent short of the actual figures. Moreover,according toIran’s health ministry, an average of eight individuals die due to drug consumption each day. The Afghan-Iranian border region, and the area joining the two states to Pakistan, in particular, have also become thebreeding groundfor various terrorist groups, whose operatives have perpetrated attacks on Iranian soil before going into hiding across the border. These groups include Jundollah, a separatist group active in the country’s southeastern Sistan-Balochestan province, which has carried out hundreds of attacks in Iranian territory, killing a number of civilians and troops.
For all these reasons, Tehran’s primary aim in Afghanistan is to make sure Kabul doesn’t collapse.
At the same time, the war in Afghanistan has provided Iran with opportunities, some of which come at a cost to the United States and its NATO allies. These include growing Iranian influence in a critical theater for the United States, which Tehran can leverage to its benefit. This is especially worrisome given that the two countries’ relations have soured since President Trump’s inauguration. Moreover, the Revolutionary Guards’ role infacilitatingopioid trafficking stymie NATO counternarcotic efforts in Afghanistan while generating revenues for the Guards, who are widely regarded as a challenge to U.S. national security.
As a result, Iran’s Afghan policy is one of balancing: Kabul can’t be too weak to collapse and create a power vacuum or too stable to deadlock Iranian influence there.
Today, Iranians see the growing presence of ISKP in Afghanistan as another reason why their presence there is imperative. In June 2017,ISIS perpetrated twin attacksin Tehran, targeting two symbolic locations: Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini’s mausoleum and the Iranian parliament. The attacks left over a dozen casualties and dozens of wounded. But they were most significant as they marked the first successful ISIS terrorist attack on Iranian soil afterfailed attemptsthe previous year. And the attacks signaled ISIS’ success in recruiting Sunni Iranians, especially in the border areas. This only exacerbated Iran’s security concerns stemming from the group’s presence in their neighborhood. Indeed, although it’s lost some ground, ISIS continues to remain active in Iraq. And in recent months, it’s managed to penetrate Iran by recruiting operatives in the country’s Sunni areas. For Tehran, even though the Taliban also represent a threat, they’re the enemy they know and can work with. But they view the Islamic State as a different beast (even though the two have some shared objectives and some Taliban operatives have joined the ranks of ISKP). Iran hasn’t been able to work with and deter ISIS, as it was able to do with the Taliban and al-Qaeda.
For Tehran, even though the Taliban also represent a threat, they’re the enemy they know and can work with.
These concerns have led Tehran to now work with some Taliban groups.Iran has committedspecial operations units and other armed forces to provide cover and assist these groups. It has also provided these groups with money, training, and weapons—an approach the country often undertakes in supporting various non-state actors. And in doing so, Iran is joined by Russia and China, whose respective Muslim populations in Chechnya and Xinjiang have also been the target of some successful recruitment by the ISIS and ISKP.
Afghanistan is also an important theater for Iran’s relations with the Arab states in the Persian Gulf. Tehran views Riyadh as a source of funding and support for ISKP and other radical groups. Iranian officials have also noted more active interest by Saudi officials in Afghan affairs for the past couple years, coinciding with the implementation of Mohammed bin Salman’s more assertive foreign policy and the intervention in Yemen. Indeed, Afghanistan’s centrality for Iran and relative lack thereof for Saudi Arabia is similar to Yemen’s importance to the kingdom and its relative insignificance in Tehran’s strategic worldview. Hence, as the Yemeni conflict drags on, costing the Gulf Arabs political capital, resources, and lives, and affording Iran a low-cost opportunity to watch its adversaries suffer in a costly stalemate, the kingdom can do the same in Afghanistan. As a result, Iran sees it as vital to maintain its presence there.
Iran is gaining ground in Afghanistan and is likely to become even more active and influential there. As a result, the United States and Iran will continue to butt heads in Afghanistan as long as U.S. forces are there. And even though the two countries share an interest in a fairly secure and stable Afghanistan and a diminished presence by terrorist groups like ISKP and al-Qaeda, these interests can quickly diverge if Tehran decides to use its growing presence to further inflict harm on Washington. To be sure, Iran has often flip-flopped between being a constructive presence in Afghanistan, as it was in the early days of the war, and a thorn in the United States and its NATO allies’ side, as it has more recently.
With tensions high, small missteps can turn into serious crises, which could further destabilize the already fragile country. To avoid such an outcome, it’s more necessary than ever for the United States to understand what’s driving Iran’s Afghanistan policies. This can ensure a sustainable peace in Afghanistan as the United States considers the future of its presence there. To help manage tensions, the United States should at a minimum contemplate reestablishing a channel of communication with Iran—preferably one that avoids high-profile meetings and ensures some level of continuity—similar to the one created during the Obama administration. This can help address misperceptions and avoid miscalculation. And as U.S. experience in bringing Iran to the table in both Afghanistan and Iraqhas shown, dialogue can at least get the Islamic Republic to moderate its own stance and help that of its proxies and affiliated groups. By bringing Iran to the table, the United States can counter and contain its activities in Afghanistan more effectively.
Hard National Security Choices

Title: The Pain Behind the Numbers of Afghanistan’s Deadly Attacks | Human Rights Watch
Slight Fall in Ground Fighting Civilian Casualties by Government Forces
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer


The October 20 attack on a mosque in Ghor province killed up to 33 people. Bombings targeting Afghanistan’s minority Shia population at mosques and religious ceremonies are on the rise this year, with at least 149 people dead and more than 300 injured since January. An earlier version of this dispatch misstated the sect targeted in the October 20 attack at the mosque in Ghor province, and the number of people who have died in bombings targeting Afghanistan's minority Shia population at mosques and religious ceremonies.
China’s Crackdown on Tengdro Monastery and Restrictions on Communications in Tibet
Insurgent Attacks on Civilians in Afghanistan
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
Human Rights Watch defends the rights of people in close to 100 countries worldwide, spotlighting abuses and bringing perpetrators to justice
Get updates on human rights issues from around the globe. Join our movement today.
Every weekday, get the world’s top human rights news, explored and explained by Andrew Stroehlein.
Human Rights Watchis a 501(C)(3) nonprofit registered in the US under EIN: 13-2875808

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: UNAMA Documents Slight Decrease in Civilian Casualties: Indications of new trends in the Afghan war - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
Author: Kate Clark
There has been a six per cent decrease in the number of civilians killed and wounded in the conflict this year compared to the first nine months of 2016 – a year which saw record highs in civilian harm. The latest UNAMA report on civilian casualties provides, as always, sobering statistics of how Afghan civilians are being killed and injured in the war and by whom. AAN’s Kate Clark has been looking at the figures and assessing what they say about trends in the conflict. She also takes a special look at what the recently announced, intensified air campaign by the United States and Afghan air forces may mean for Afghan civilian casualties.
_This latest report from UNAMA covers the first three quarters of this year (1 January to 30 September 2017), comparing them with the same period in 2016. It can be readhere.
There is some good news in UNAMA’s latest report, primarily that civilian casualties have fallen compared to the first nine months of last year. However, it was a slight decrease and masked a one per cent increase in civilian deaths. It was also only a reduction from a record high forcivilian casualties in 2016. Such fluctuations in quarterly reporting have been seen before without annual reductions. (The last annual fall was in 2012 compared with 2011 – see AAN analysishere.) Even so, the reduction of six per cent in civilian deaths and injuries is welcome. In total, UNAMA documented 8,019 civilian casualties in the first nine months of the year (2,640 people killed and 5,379 injured).
What UNAMA defines as anti-government elements, ie insurgent groups, (1) were responsible for the bulk of the casualties: 5,167 overall (1,760 deaths and 3,407 injured) or 68 per cent of the total during the first nine months of 2017. They caused one per cent fewer civilian casualties compared to the same period last year. UNAMA attributed 66 per cent to the Taleban, 10 per cent to Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), aka Daesh, and the remainder to “unidentified Anti-Government Elements, including self-proclaimedDaesh/ISKP.” The figure for ISKP is huge, considering their limited territorial footprint, but is a consequence of their willingness to attack unprotected gatherings of civilians for sectarian reasons. (See recent AAN analysishere.)
Civilian casualties attributed to pro-government forces – UNAMA’s term for Afghan government and international forces (primarily the United States, which is now the only country with a combat mission in Afghanistan) and militias under their control (2) – were 19 per cent lower, compared to the first nine months of 2016. Pro-government forces were responsible for 1,578 civilian casualties (560 deaths and 1,018 injured), or 20 per cent of the total. Over half of these occurred during ground fighting.
UNAMA said it could not attribute eleven per cent of civilian casualties to either side, but said they occurred during fighting. (3)
Causes of civilian deaths and injuries_ _
The fall in civilian casualties so far this year was particularly marked in ground engagements, which is still the largest overall cause of civilian harm. Deaths and injuries here fell by 15 per cent overall and by 37 per cent in those attributed to pro-government forces. UNAMA reported a seven per cent rise in casualties from anti-government elements in ground engagements. Ground engagements caused 35 per cent of civilian casualties in the first nine months this year – 2,807 overall (684 deaths and 2,123 injuries)
UNAMA said the government’s commitment to mitigating civilian casualties had “led to fewer civilian deaths and injuries from their operations.” This was particularly marked in the north-east. (4) This was a change in tone from UNAMA’s 2016 annual report when it called for a cessation in the use of indirect use of mortars, rockets, grenades and other weapons in civilian-populated areas. “[C]lear tactical directives, rules of engagement and other procedures,” it said, needed to be developed for the use of explosive weapons.
The other factor, however, reducing the casualties in ground engagements was that there were less of them this year. Frontlines have been relatively static in the south, (5) unlike last year which saw heavy fighting in both Helmand and Uruzgan provinces, including two attempts by the Taleban to capture Lashkargar in Helmand and insurgent offensives against Tirin Kot in Uruzgan, as well as attacks on many of the districts of those two provinces. In the north, the Taleban also overran most parts of Kunduz city, before being driven back. This year, so far, there have been no major Taleban offensives against any large population centres.
One factor, not mentioned by UNAMA, may be the increased threat to the Taleban from the air, with both the Afghan Air Force (AAF) and US Air Force increasing the numbers of sorties flown and munitions dropped (more on this below). This may be reversing a trend seen from2014onwards, when ground engagements became the main cause of civilian casualties (the trend was visible from2013. This had come about, as international aircraft were withdrawn and the Taleban were able to mass in large numbers and launch ground offensives without fear of being wiped out from the air. Significantly, the increase in the casualties from the Taleban side this year were largely from “small arms fire”, not heavy weapons.
Both the US and Afghan air forces have become more active in 2016 and that is reflected in the civilian casualties resulting from aerial strikes. Although still representing only six per cent of the total number of civilian casualties reported, the increase in the actual numbers was sharp: 52 per cent more civilians were killed and injured from the air in the first nine months of 2017, compared with the same period in 2016, with two thirds of the casualties women and children. 466 civilians were killed and injured in aerial operations in the first nine months of the year (205 deaths and 261 injuries). UNAMA attributed 38 per cent of those casualties to the international military (the remainder would be either from the Afghan Air Force or made up of incidents which could not be attributed to either.) The issue of airstrikes will be analysed in more detail below.
Other trends made evident in UNAMA reporting were a four per cent decrease in casualties from suicide and complex attacks, although that included 13 per cent more deaths. Such attacks result in 20 per cent of total civilian casualties – 1,584 in all (382 deaths and 1,202 injuries).
There was also a reduction in the number of civilian casualties from IEDs. They were responsible for 18 per cent all civilian casualties in the first nine months of the year, a reduction of eight per cent compared to the same period in 2016. There were 1,403 casualties (498 deaths and 905 injuries) from IEDs. The use of indiscriminate and therefore unlawful pressure-plate IEDs on roads used by civilians led to 803 civilian casualties (371 deaths and 432 injured), reflecting an 11 per cent increase in deaths from these devices. A quarter of these fatalities were children.
Many more civilians have been killed and injured in targeted and deliberate killings this year: there was a 13 per cent overall increase in casualties and a 33 per cent spike in civilian deaths. UNAMA said it had documented “disturbing trends of intentional killings targeting religious leaders, civilians perceived to support the Government or Afghan national security forces, and continued attacks against civilian Government workers and judicial and prosecutorial figures.”
Another troubling statistic was the many Shia Muslim Afghans killed and injured in the first nine months of the year. There were 278 civilian casualties (84 deaths and 194 wounded) of worshipers targeted as they attended mosques or religious ceremonies. (See recent AAN reportinghere.
Air strikes and Civilian Casualties
Only six per cent of all civilian casualties in the conflict up to 30 September 2017 were a result of air strikes. While bearing this in mind and also the tendency for air strikes, particularly those conducted by the US Air Force, to receive a disproportionate attention in the Afghan and international media, it seemed reasonable to look at this issue in more detail, given the 52 per cent rise in casualties caused by them in the first nine months of the year (a trend continuing from 2016). It is especially relevant given the plans to intensify the US and Afghan air campaign further and, on the US side, the loosening of restrictions on when air strikes can be ordered.
Last year, in its2016 annual reporton the protection of civilians, UNAMA called for “an immediate halt to the use of airstrikes in civilian-populated areas and… greater restraint in the use of airstrikes where civilians are likely to be present.” It also wanted “[C]lear tactical directives, rules of engagement and other procedures” developed and implemented for the use of armed aircraft. In this report, it “reiterated its concern at continued increases in civilian casualties from aerial attacks, particularly among women and children.”
On 10 October 2017, the US and NATO commander in Afghanistan General Nicholson warned theTalebanthat “a tidal wave of air power is on the horizon.” Both the US and Afghan air forces are flying more sorties, dropping more munitions and planning further increases in operations. The US Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) reported a 24 per cent increase in personnel in the Afghan Air Force in the second quarter of 2017, compared to thefirst quarterand an 83 per cent increase in sorties flown over the same three months. Some of that was due to “a slightly lower tempo of operations in the winter months,” it said, but it was largely due to “a considerable increase in the AAF’s recent operational activity.” It did not report on the number of munitions dropped.
Meanwhile, the US Air Force has also been more active, dropping munitions in quantities not seen since ‘the surge’ – the period 2009 to 2012 when 100,000 US troops came to be deployed to fight the Taleban (NB the first available data on US air munitions and sorties is from 2012). The US Airforce hasreportedthat September 2017 “marked a record high month for weapons employed in Afghanistan since 2012, with 751 munitions being delivered against Taliban and ISIS–Khorasan targets; a 50 percent jump from August.” The nearest known comparable months are July and August 2012, with, respectively, 504 and 509 munitions dropped. The comparable yearly figures are 947 munitions delivered by the US Air Force in Afghanistan in 2015, 1,337 in 2016 and, already in the first nine months of this year, 3,238. (Datahere)
In testimony to the US Congress on 4 October 2017, Secretary of State for Defence Jim Mattis described how President Trump had made it easier to launch air strikes. (His comments were widelyreported, although the transcript of the hearing has yet to be published):
“At one time, sir, we could not help Afghan forces unless they were in extremis” — that is, under direct, urgent threat, Mattis said. “And then eventually that was rescinded, but they still had to be in proximity. They had to be in contact [ie coming under fire from insurgents]. Today, wherever we find them, the terrorists — anyone trying to throw the NATO plan off, trying to attack the Afghan people and the Afghan government — then we can go after them.”
President Obama had already loosened restrictions imposed under the 2014Bilateral Security Agreement(BSA) which had only allowed combat operations against al Qaeda and “its associates”. From June 2016, strikes could also be ordered against the Taleban and for “strategic effects” (for example to prevent a population centre falling to the Taleban) and not just “counter-terrorism” (for more detail, see earlier AANanalysison the US military strategy. The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Joseph Dunford, who also testified to Congress, gave further details or the changes.
“The conditions aren’t specific to, as Sec. Mattis alluded to, a specific engagement or a specific time,” Dunford added. “So if they’re in an assembly area, a training camp, and we know they’re an enemy and a threat to the Afghan government, our mission or our people, [US and NATO commander in Afghanistan] Gen. Nicholson has the wherewithal and flexibility to make that decision.”
Significantly, the extra 3500 or so US forces,announcedon 3 October 2017 as being deployed to Afghanistan are operating at a much lower level. They are operating in battalions, rather than just advising at corps headquarters. Mattisreferredto them as combat troops: “The fighting will continue to be carried out by our Afghan partners,” he said, “but our advisers will accompany tactical units to advise and bring NATO fire support to bear when needed… Make no mistake, this is combat duty.” It seems the post-2014 fudge when President Obama wanted to carry on fighting in Afghanistan and insist that the combat mission was over, when it was not clear which US forces were involved in ‘the can be combat’ US Freedom Sentinel’s mission and the non-combat NATO Resolute Support mission is at anend. US forces will now be openly deployed in the field, calling in airstrikes and providing direct tactical advice on the front lines to Afghan forces.
The Afghan Air Force is doing better than it has before – although the historical precedents are very poor. War crimesreportingfrom before 2002 shows the sustained use of the Afghan Air Force to target civilians, when it was controlled by the PDPA (a junior partner to the Soviet air force which carried out widespread bombing of rural areas in the 1980s) and later by Shura-e Nazar and Jombesh, who got hold of the remnants of the air force after the fall of the PDPA regime in 1992 and used them to bomb civilian areas during the civil war in Kabul (all factions also used artillery indiscriminately in the capital). The Taleban, who seized some of those even fewer remaining air assets also used them to bomb civilians, including the hospital and Oxfam office in Yakowlang, in Bamyan province in 2001, and opposition-held parts of Dara-ye Suf district, in Samangan province in 2000, even bombing people who fled the town and tried to seek shelter in the mountains.
The current Afghan Air Force may not be targeting civilians as its previous incarnations did, but it has to do much more to avoid civilian casualties. UNAMA notes that, in October 2017, the Government formally endorsed the National Policy on Civilian Casualty Prevention and Mitigation, which covers all of the ANSF, not just the air force. The UN Secretary General’s Special Representative in Afghanistan, Tadamichi Yamamoto, said there must be a full implementation of the new policy and in particular: “…ensure the impartial examination and systematic tracking of civilian casualties and is legally obliged to ensure independent investigations into any incidents causing civilian casualties that may amount to serious violations of international humanitarian law.”
It is especially necessary to watch how the Afghan Air Force develops, given that its role is planned to expand markedly in the next five years. This expansion is a key component of the current US/Afghan military strategy (seehereandhere) and training, hardware and considerable US funding is in the pipeline. (7)
Assessing the plans to intensify the air campaign
That many more Afghan civilians have been killed and injured in air strikes so far this year compared to 2016 is clear. From the data available, though, it is impossible to determine whether, proportionate to the number of strikes, more civilians are being killed and injured (which would indicate poorer efforts to protect civilian casualties) or not. In calculating the overall calculus of civilian harm from air strikes, the decrease in casualties from ground engagements, which may partly be a result of the increased air deterrent on the Taleban, would also need to be factored in. Nevertheless, there are elements of the US and Afghan strategy to increase the use of air strikes which already ring alarm bells.
First, compared to the pre-2014 period, the US military command is far less transparent: in those earlier years, there was a real engagement with national and international organisations (including the UN and concerned NGOs, such as AAN) on how to mitigatecivilian casualties. There was also a genuine effort, in training, tactical directives, (6) command and control, reporting and investigating, to minimise the harm to civilians. The US motivation was the realisation of the damage that dead and injured Afghan civilians were doing to its war effort. That emphasis on protecting civilians is no longer evident.
Pre-2014, there was also much more political pressure to avoid civilian casualties: an angry President Karzai and frequently outraged Afghan media has been replaced by the rather silent President Ghani and Chief Executive Abdullah and a far more subdued media. The current government recognises its dependence on the US and has been far less likely to criticise. If civilian casualties really rise, however, popular discontent may force this onto the political agenda again.
The second question, however, is what is the overall aim of this policy? General Nicholson, delivering Black Hawk helicopters to the Afghan Air Force at what The Washington Post described as an “elaborately staged ceremony at Kandahar Air Base [which] marked the formal launch of an ambitious plan to modernize and expand the Afghan air force over the next five years” (seehere), vowed that the escalation of the air campaign would be “the beginning of the end for the Taliban.” His words brought a strong sense of déjà vu, not only claims made during thesurge years, but even earlier, to2001, claims that in the end amounted to nothing.
If the intensified air campaign is just aimed at pushing the Taleban back, although we may see that happen, we would also likely see the insurgents adapting their strategy. They did this before, after suffering huge losses in ground engagements in 2006 and 2007. They also bounced back very rapidly after US surge troops left and then most international forces withdrew in 2014; Afghan forces proved unable to hold the territory that the foreign troops had won. The Afghan insurgency tends to adapt, which means that new strategies and the creation or expansion of forces have not, in the long run, lead to territory being held, civilians protected or there being any decisive reduction in the level of violence: the war continues, in different ways. The US and Afghan strategy only makes sense – unless a forever war is really the preferred option – if any gains against the Taleban are exploited politically and the same energy and commitment is put into finding a political, negotiated end to the war, as has been shown in fighting it.
(1) In UNAMA’s 2016 Protection of Civilians, it wrote:
Anti-Government Elements encompass all individuals and armed groups involved in armed conflict with or armed opposition against the Government of Afghanistan and/or international military forces. They include those who identify as ‘Taliban’ as well as individuals and non-State organized armed groups taking a direct part in hostilities and assuming a variety of labels including the Haqqani Network, Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, Islamic Jihad Union, Lashkari Tayyiba, Jaysh Muhammed, groups that identify as “Daesh”/Islamic State Khorasan Province and other militia and armed groups pursuing political, ideological or economic objectives including armed criminal groups directly engaged in hostile acts on behalf of a party to the conflict.
(2) UNAMA in its 2016 Protection of Civiliansreportwrote:
The term “Pro-Government Forces” includes the Afghan Government’s national security forces and other forces and groups that act in military or paramilitary counter-insurgency operations and are directly or indirectly under the control of the Government of Afghanistan. These forces include, but are not limited to, the Afghan National Army (ANA), Afghan National Police (ANP), Afghan National Border Police, National Directorate of Security and Afghan Local Police – which operate under Government legal structures – and pro-Government armed groups and militias that have no basis in Afghan law and do not operate under formal Government structures. This term also includes international military forces and other foreign intelligence and security forces._ _
(3) Some will have resulted from ‘explosive remnants of war’ left over from fighting. They killed 134 civilians and injured 378, most of them children. The Afghan government has now formally ratified Protocol V to the 1980 Convention on Certain Conventional Weapons concerning explosive remnants of war. “The implementation of this protocol,” said Danielle Bell, Chief of UNAMA’s Human Rights Service, “which will come into effect in February 2018, will prevent many similar and avoidable casualties from occurring in the future”
(4) UNAMA includes in the northeastern region, Badakhshan, Baghlan, Takhar, and Kunduz provinces.
(5) UNAMA defines the southern region as comprising Helmand, Kandahar, Nimruz, Uruzgan, and Zabul.
(6) In 2012, the then commander of US and NATO forces, General John Allen issued a new ‘fragmentary order’ altering the tactical directives outlining offensive fires could be delivered. Civilian residences could no longer be targeted unless, as Allen said, “my troops are pinned down, can’t move, and the only option they have is to deliver fires on these structures, or I decide, the senior leader out here, I decide to deliver fires on these structures.” The result, he of the new order, he said, was that civilian causalities as a result of air fires, “plummeted immediately.” Before then, air fire had been the main way in which civilians were killed by ‘pro-government forces’ (international military and ANSF together), killing four times as many civilians as any othertactic.
(7) SIGAR’s most recent report, to the end of June 2017,reportedthat:
As of May 18, 2017, the United States has appropriated approximately: $5.2 billion to support and develop the AAF since FY [financial year] 2010, with roughly $1.5 billion of it requested in FY 2017. Of the total amount since 2010, $2.2 billion was spent on the Special Mission Wing, the special operations branch of the AAF. CSTC-A [Combined Security Transition Command – Afghanistan] noted that the FY 2017 figure includes DOD’s recent request to Congress for $814.5 million to fund the Afghan Aviation Transition Plan (AATP), which will replace the AAF’s aging, Russian-made Mi-17 fleet with refurbished, U.S.-made UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters obtained from U.S. Army stocks._ _
It added:
The AAF’s current inventory of aircraft includes:
SIGAR also said that:
As part of the AATP, over the next several years, the AAF will receive a significant number of new or refurbished airframes to grow the AAF’s inventory. According to USFOR-A, in FY 2017, two more A-29 aircraft have been purchased, but not yet fielded. In order to replace the AAF’s aging Mi-17s, the United States has also procured 53 UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters as well as 30 MD-530s, three AC-208s, and four additional A-29 aircraft (for a total of six) using FY 2017 funds.289 While the delivery timelines and training requirements are still being determined, by the end of the AATP in 2023, the AAF will have a total of 61 UH-60s, 58 Fixed Forward Firing UH-60, 54 MD-530s, 24 C-208s, 32 AC-208s, 4 C-130 aircraft, and 25 A-29s.
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: No title found


Title: MSN


Title: Four ISIS terrorists killed in Nangarhar province of Afghanistan
Live
Kabul [Afghanistan]:At least four terrorists belonging to the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) group were killed in an airstrike carried out by the security forces in eastern Nangarhar province of Afghanistan.
The airstrike hit the ISIS hideout in Achin district; the Khaama Press quoted the provincial government media office as saying in a statement.
The airstrike also destroyed several weapons, ammunition, and explosives; the statement added.
The provincial government stated that the local residents and security personnel did not suffer any casualties in the airstrike.
Last week, at least 11 terrorists belonging to ISIS group's offshoot, ISIS Khorasan, were killed in the airstrikes conducted by the United States forces in the province.
Anti-ISIS as well as anti-Taliban operations are underway to eliminate the presence of terrorists in Nangarhar province and the U.S. forces are providing air force support to the Afghan forces during the operations.
© 2024 Hyderabad Media House Limited/The Hans India. All rights reserved. Powered byhocalwire.com

Title: Daesh attempts to enter Pakistan

Former Afghan president Hamid Karzai has recently claimed that the US has links with the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) or Daesh. He further said that ISIS was being supplied weapons by the United States. In an interview with Russia Today in London, published on October 4, Karzai said he has more than suspicions that the US bases in Afghanistan were being used to aid Daesh. “I get daily reports by the Afghan people that unmarked military helicopters supply Daesh in many parts of Afghanistan,” he claimed. Karzai added that from 9/11 until today, there was more extremism in Afghanistan, despite spending billions of dollars by the US.
Earlier, this year during an interview, Karzai had stated that the ISIS was a tool of the United States and that he did not differentiate between the ISIS and America. He told the VOA’s Afghan service: “After it (the US) dropped the bomb on Afghanistan, it did not eliminate Daesh. I consider Daesh their tool. I do not differentiate at all between Daesh and America.”
On the other hand, Pakistan’s National Security Adviser Lt-Gen (retd) Naseer Janjua agreed with former Afghan president Hamid Karzai that the US was supporting the organisation, Daesh, in Afghanistan. “Yes, I do agree with Hamid Karzai on his Daesh statement. I think he is right,” Janjua told a newspaper.
There is no official confirmation of the presence of ISIS in Pakistan; however the top world intelligence agencies are supporting the ISIS in Afghanistan which has its impact on Pakistan too. The ingress into Balochistan in order to sabotage CPEC would be made through Daesh, warn experts in Islamabad.
These experts point out that the trend of ISIS targeting young people is a global phenomenon that is likely to persist. According to a report, about 5,000 Westerners have traveled to Iraq and Syria (many via Turkey) to join the ISIS. Of these, more than 500 have come from the US, at least 1,000 from the UK and more than 3,500 from France and the rest of Europe, according to estimates from authorities in these countries.
The organization has centered itself in Afghanistan’s northern region, bordering with Pakistan. The Nangarhar province is considered to be their stronghold, with presence in Achin, Nazian, Bati Kot, Kot and Mohmand Valley. It was reported that by September 2015, their numbers in Nangarhar had climbed to more than 1,000. Daesh’s presence in Afghanistan which has instilled fear and notoriety was confirmed in March 2015 when Abdul Salam Rahimi, chief of staff to Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, said: "Daesh is here, they do exist." In June 2015, a Daesh website claimed Afghanistan as part of the Khorasan province.
The ISIS is using a different strategy i.e. targeting the educated youth of Pakistan through the internet. Experts in internal security say that Pakistan has successfully flushed out terrorism from its soil and there is no footprint of ISIS physically. Pakistan has taken serious steps to strengthen security and management of the Pak-Afghan border.
What has the ISIS actually done on the ground except destroying Iraq, Libya and Syria and damaging the unity of the Muslim world? Whom are they serving and for what purpose? Has the ISIS ever launched an attack against Israel, their real masters? The answer is No.
Harsukh Residencies seen the name of builder seen in this image. — X/@Harsukh Residency/FileAlmaymaar, the renowned...
A representational image of MDCAT exam seen in this image. — APP/FileIslamabad:The Federal public sector medical...
This representational image shows a book on the table. — Unsplash/FileWhen I had a poetry collection written by...
Coordinator to the Prime Minister on Climate Change and Environmental Coordination, Romina Khurshid Alam addresses an...
Chairperson of the Benazir Income Support Programme , Senator Rubina Khalid, met with Mr. Ghulam Nabi Marri, National...
Director Excise and Taxation Department Bilal Azam is expressing his views to the public on online video, on this...
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: Daesh attempts to enter Pakistan

Former Afghan president Hamid Karzai has recently claimed that the US has links with the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) or Daesh. He further said that ISIS was being supplied weapons by the United States. In an interview with Russia Today in London, published on October 4, Karzai said he has more than suspicions that the US bases in Afghanistan were being used to aid Daesh. “I get daily reports by the Afghan people that unmarked military helicopters supply Daesh in many parts of Afghanistan,” he claimed. Karzai added that from 9/11 until today, there was more extremism in Afghanistan, despite spending billions of dollars by the US.
Earlier, this year during an interview, Karzai had stated that the ISIS was a tool of the United States and that he did not differentiate between the ISIS and America. He told the VOA’s Afghan service: “After it (the US) dropped the bomb on Afghanistan, it did not eliminate Daesh. I consider Daesh their tool. I do not differentiate at all between Daesh and America.”
On the other hand, Pakistan’s National Security Adviser Lt-Gen (retd) Naseer Janjua agreed with former Afghan president Hamid Karzai that the US was supporting the organisation, Daesh, in Afghanistan. “Yes, I do agree with Hamid Karzai on his Daesh statement. I think he is right,” Janjua told a newspaper.
There is no official confirmation of the presence of ISIS in Pakistan; however the top world intelligence agencies are supporting the ISIS in Afghanistan which has its impact on Pakistan too. The ingress into Balochistan in order to sabotage CPEC would be made through Daesh, warn experts in Islamabad.
These experts point out that the trend of ISIS targeting young people is a global phenomenon that is likely to persist. According to a report, about 5,000 Westerners have traveled to Iraq and Syria (many via Turkey) to join the ISIS. Of these, more than 500 have come from the US, at least 1,000 from the UK and more than 3,500 from France and the rest of Europe, according to estimates from authorities in these countries. The organization has centered itself in Afghanistan’s northern region, bordering with Pakistan. The Nangarhar province is considered to be their stronghold, with presence in Achin, Nazian, Bati Kot, Kot and Mohmand Valley. It was reported that by September 2015, their numbers in Nangarhar had climbed to more than 1,000. Daesh’s presence in Afghanistan which has instilled fear and notoriety was confirmed in March 2015 when Abdul Salam Rahimi, chief of staff to Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, said: "Daesh is here, they do exist." In June 2015, a Daesh website claimed Afghanistan as part of the Khorasan province.
The ISIS is using a different strategy i.e. targeting the educated youth of Pakistan through the internet. Experts in internal security say that Pakistan has successfully flushed out terrorism from its soil and there is no footprint of ISIS physically. Pakistan has taken serious steps to strengthen security and management of the Pak-Afghan border.
What has the ISIS actually done on the ground except destroying Iraq, Libya and Syria and damaging the unity of the Muslim world? Whom are they serving and for what purpose? Has the ISIS ever launched an attack against Israel, their real masters? The answer is No.
FIR lodged by Hadyara Station House Officer Hamas Hameed includes sections of terrorism and attempted murder
Current Japanese Constitution came into effect on May 3, 1947
KP would have a serious and negative impact on the rest of the country and if the provincial government did not...
Akbar S Babar said verdict relied heavily on self-serving concept of ‘complete justice’ to justify relief provided...
Convoy of more than 10 foreign ambassadors was passing through picturesque town of Malam Jabba in Swat district when...
Daniyal Chaudhary said that Zionist lobbies believe that Imran Khan and his party could represent Israel in Islamic...
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: No title found


Title: US drone strike 'kills 14 Isis militants in Afghanistan' | Afghanistan | The Guardian
Afghan officials say strike killed militants in Kunar province on Thursday but local MP claims victims were civilians
A US drone strike has killed 14Islamic Statemilitants, Afghan officials say.
The strike took place in a remote area of Afghanistan’s eastern Kunar province on Thursday afternoon.
Abdul Ghani Musamim, a spokesman for the provincial governor, told the Associated Press that the drone had targeted a meeting of Isis commanders who were planning a terrorist attack.
The government has no control of the area where Afghanistan’s Isis affiliate has managed to establish a presence.
The spokesman for Afghanistan’s ministry of defence, Dawlat Waziri, also confirmed the report but there has been no immediate comment from the US-led forces in Afghanistan.
The MP for Kunar province, Shahzada Shaheed, challenged the report, however, claiming the victims of the strike were civilians.
The US has been bombing in Afghanistan since late 2001 and airstrikes have continued under the Trump administration, with many recent drone strikes and special operations missions aimed at Isis strongholds.
Islamic State’s presence has grown in the country over the last few years and the US estimates that there are around 600 to 800 Isis fighters in Afghanistan, mostly in Nangarhar.
Thousands of US troops remain in Afghanistan. where they also helpAfghan forces in their fight against the Talibanin various parts of the country.
The US used the biggest non-nuclear bomb ever dropped in combatagainst Isis in Nangarhar in April, targeting a tunnel complex carved into the mountains.

Title: Terror Attacks Force Red Cross to 'Drastically Reduce' Presence in Afghanistan
A series of attacks in northern Afghanistan, where both the Taliban and Islamic State (ISIS/ISIL) have intensified their terror campaign, haspromptedthe International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) to “drastically reduce” its operations in the country.
“We have no choice but to drastically reduce our presence and activities in Afghanistan,” Monica Zanarelli, the ICRC head in Afghanistan, told reporters on Monday, only a couple of days after the U.S-NATO-led war against jihadists in the countryenteredits 17th year on October 7.
The decision by the charity group, which has been operating in Afghanistan for decades, is a testament to thegrowingdangers for aid workers in the country.
“This is a difficult moment for the ICRC and the staff. After 30 years of continuous presence in the country, we are reducing our presence and operations. But let’s be very clear, we are not leaving Afghanistan. Limiting our staff’s exposure to risks is our focus, all the while assisting the people affected by the conflict the best way we can,” declared the ICRC chief in a statement.
With an estimated 1,800 ICRCstaffersin Afghanistan, including 120 international aid workers, the Red Cross’ operations in the country are its fourth largest worldwide.
ICRC revealed that it would close its offices in Faryab and Taliban hotbedKunduz, both provinces in northern Afghanistan.
Meanwhile, it will “seriously” scale back its operations in Mazar-i-Sharif, the capital of northern Afghanistan’s Balkh province.
“We understand the consequences to stop our activities in the north, but we have no choice,” proclaimed Zanarelli.
“Exposure to risk has become our greater challenge in Afghanistan, and we know that zero risk doesn’t exist, and we are not aiming at that, but our security has to be guaranteed by every party,” she added in a statement.
In recent years, ICRC staff members in Afghanistan have been victims ofterrorismdespite being in the country to help injured and disabled people from all sides, assisting hospitals, making prison visits, as well as ensuring prisoners maintain contact with their families.
ICRC revealed in the statement:
In December 2016, an ICRC staff member was abducted in Kunduz province, and released four weeks later. This incident was followed by the brutal killing of six staff and the abduction of two others in Jawzjan province. After a seven-month-long ordeal, the two abducted staff were released on 5 September. Only six days after that, a physiotherapist wasshotand killed by a long-term patient inside the rehabilitation centre in Mazar-i-Sharif.
The revelation that the Red Cross is downsizing its activities came as reportsresurfacedabout a possible truce between the Taliban and its alleged rival ISIS in Afghanistan.
According to Agence France-Presse (AFP) agency, both groups may bebehindthe attacks on the Red Cross in northern Afghanistan.
“The [ICRC] group has suffered a series of deadly attacks in northern Afghanistan, where Taliban and Islamic State group militants have intensified their assaults on police and troops,” reports AFP.
Citing unnamed sources, news outlets from the Afghanistan regionclaimTaliban chief Hebatullah Akhundzada has ordered his jihadists not to fight against its alleged rival the Islamic State.
Khaama Press (KP) points out that Akhundzada’s order “comesas bloody clashes continue in some parts of the country between the Taliban group and ISIS militants.”
Once again, the Taliban has denied any affiliation with ISIS, alsoconsideredan enemy by the Taliban’s ally al-Qaeda. ISIS broke away from ISIS in 2014.
Echoing the U.S. military, Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL)reportedin August that ISIS and the Talibanworkedtogether “in a rare joint operation” this year in northern Afghanistan’s Sar-e Pul Province.
Gen. John Nicholson, the top commander of U.S. and NATO troops in Afghanistan, hasconcededthat the two groups reached a ceasefire in eastern Nangarhar province last year, stressing that the agreement did not extend to the rest of the country.
At the time, the U.S. military considered Nangarhar to be ISIS’ only stronghold in the Afghanistan region.
However, the ISIS branch in Afghanistan has already expanded its jihadi operations from one to seven provinces, the United Nations recentlyreported.
The Taliban and its allies, namely the Haqqani Network, remain the most prominent jihadi threat in Afghanistan.
Taliban jihadists control or contest 45 percent of Afghanistan, revealed the Long War Journal (LWJ), a component of the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies (FDD) think-tank.
Breitbart News determined that the Taliban’s reach in Afghanistan is higher now than during any other time since the U.S. military deposed the group’s regime in late 2001.
Although the Taliban and ISIS have engaged in turf battles in Afghanistan since the latter group established a presence in the country in early 2015, some Afghan officials haverepeatedlyclaimed that the two organizations have cooperated.
Pleaselet us knowif you're having issues with commenting.




Copyright © 2024 Breitbart

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:10Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Ajit Doval: Doval in Kabul as talks begin in Muscat for Afghan-Taliban settlement | India News - Times of India
10 ingredients used for making healthy dumplings
10 steps to start the most beautiful rose garden at home
Top 10 must-try jungle safaris in India
World Rhino Day: 10 things to know about rhino conservation efforts in India
How to make the perfect Masala Omelette at home
World Tourism Day: 10 most peaceful countries in the world
8 natural sources of Vitamin B12
8 things that make us happy from within
How to make Palak Patta Chaat
​10 jaw-dropping animals with incredible bite strength​

Title:  ANSF performance 2015 onwards - Page 3
View Tag Cloud
Forum Rules

Title: No title found


Title:  China's Emergence as a Superpower (2015 onwards) - Page 3
View Tag Cloud
Forum Rules

Title:  China's Emergence as a Superpower (2015 onwards) - Page 3
View Tag Cloud
Forum Rules

Title:  China's Emergence as a Superpower (2015 onwards) - Page 3
View Tag Cloud
Forum Rules

Title: 'US will no longer ignore Pakistan's militant support' – DW – 10/25/2017
US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson has urged Pakistan to up the fight against militant groups. Husain Haqqani, former Pakistani ambassador to the US, told DW that Pakistan could face dire consequence for non-compliance.
DW: What was the aim of Rex Tillerson's Pakistan visit on Tuesday? Will the Trump administration be able to achieve its objectives for Afghanistan and Pakistan?
Husain Haqqani: US Secretary of State Tillerson was in Islamabad to convey what President Donald Trump had already announced. The US now recognizes that its interests no longer converge with those of Pakistan in Afghanistan. Pakistan wants the US to accept its primacy in Afghanistan and continue to receive economic and military aid from Washington while the US wants Pakistan to change its policies in relation to terrorism. I doubt one visit by the secretary of state will end a problem that has evolved over several years.
Read more:Rex Tillerson visits Afghanistan to discuss peace and the Taliban
Pakistan insists it has "sacrificed" a lot in the war against terror and yet the international community doesn't appreciate its role. Is it not true?
It is unfortunate that Pakistan has lost many soldiers and civilians since 9/11, but that does not change the fact that it is a result of Pakistan's wrong policy of supporting some terrorists while fighting others.
What impact will President Trump's Afghanistan policy have on Pakistan?
As Secretary of Defense General James Mattis has said, the Trump administration is giving Pakistan "one last chance" to align its policy on Afghanistan with that of Washington's. If Pakistan's support to the Afghan Taliban and the Haqqani Network continues, it will result in consequences Pakistan has not faced before.
- Donald Trump's Afghanistan strategy raises the stakes
- Afghanistan talks without Taliban: What can they achieve?
How do you see the future of Pakistan-US relations?
The two countries are drifting further and further apart. To change that, Pakistan would need to act on its oft-stated policy of eliminating all jihadist groups inside Pakistan, even those that attack India and Afghanistan.
Pakistan is currently facing diplomatic isolation amid allegations about militant safe havens along the Afghan border. What does Pakistan need to do to end this isolation?
It is true that Pakistan is getting more and more isolated. Growing ties with Russia and China will not end that isolation. Pakistan must shut down jihadist safe havens not only to avoid isolation but also for the sake of its existence.
Read more:'Greater SAARC' and Pakistan's regional isolation
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
Pakistan's Foreign Minister Khawaja Asif recently said Islamabad was willing to work with the Trump administration. Does his statement indicate a policy shift?
Pakistan has a credibility problem in Washington. Similar promises have been made for years without result. Washington will no longer ignore Pakistan's support for groups like the Afghan Taliban, the Haqqani Network or Lashkar-e-Taiba. The policy of cherry-picking in relation to terrorist groups will no longer work.
Khawaja Asif recently said in a Twitter message that President Trump's harsh words against Pakistan were a result of your lobbying work in Washington. How would you respond to this allegation?
I guess he [Khawaja Asif] needs a scapegoat. Conspiracy theories and hatred for the US are a major part of Pakistan's political discourse. The Pakistani expectation that Washington would indefinitely provide economic and military assistance in return for partial support of US objectives is delusional.
Some analysts say the powerful Pakistani military played a key role in ousting former PM Nawaz Sharif. Do you agree with this assessment?
Sharif's removal from office reaffirms what I call the "iron law" of Pakistani politics: a politician can amass wealth and engage in corruption only as long as he does not challenge the ascendance of the country's powerful national security establishment. The military does not want civilians to assert their views in the conduct of foreign and national security policies. Sharif's desire to reshape policies on Afghanistan and India led to his clash with the security establishment.
- Pakistan's internal tensions run high despite Nawaz Sharif's removal
- Pakistan by-election: A 'referendum' against army's role in politics
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
How do you view the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC)?
Pakistan is moving from economic dependence on the US to economic dependence on China. China sees Pakistan as a secondary deterrent against India as it helps keep India tied down within South Asia.
CPEC will not resolve Pakistan's economic problems but will soon become an economic burden when Pakistan has to repay the high interest loans.
The Pakistani security establishment has also clamped down on any protests against CPEC in Baluchistan, Gilgit-Baltistan and other areas, with the arrest, disappearance and torture of activists.
Read more:Economic corridor - CPEC could turn Pakistan into China's 'client state'
Why has the Pakistani government not acted against US-designated terrorists like Hafiz Saeed?
Because Pakistan's military establishment still considers terrorist groups that share its foreign policy goals in Afghanistan or against India as its "assets." They would rather mainstream Hafiz Saeed and pretend that he is just a politician with extreme views than acknowledge that terrorists deserve punishment.
Read more:Ignoring US pressure, Pakistan mainstreams jihadi groups
Husain Haqqani is the former ambassador of Pakistan to the United States. He is currently a director at the Washington-based Hudson Institute.
The interview was conducted by Atif Tauqeer.

Title: MSN


Title: No title found


Title: U.S. Hostage Kevin King Is Seriously Ill, Afghan Taliban Says

Profile
Sections
tv
Featured
More From NBC
Follow NBC News
There are no new alerts at this time
PESHAWAR, Pakistan — An American professor held hostage by militants is seriously ill and requires immediate treatment, a senior member of the Afghan Taliban told NBC News on Monday.
Kevin King was kidnapped at gunpoint from the American University of Afghanistan in Kabul alongside Australian colleague Timothy Weeks in August 2016.
A Taliban commander, who asked for anonymity as he was not permitted to speak to the media, described the 61-year-old King as being in "serious condition" due to his heart disease and said he urgently requires hospitalization. However, the militants have been unable to arrange that.
“Whatever we could do, we did to save his life but it's beyond our capacity and resources to provide him the quality of care he needs," the militant added.
According to the Taliban commander, King's health has deteriorated in recent weeks despite the fact the group had arranged treatment and obtained drugs for him.
He added that the militants "should not be held responsible" if King were to die.
King and Weeks are both believed to be held by the Haqqani network, a group which is linked to the Afghan Taliban.
The Haqqani network was also responsible for the 2012 kidnapping of the U.S.-Canadian couple Caitlan Coleman and Joshua Boyle in Afghanistan. The pair and their three children, who were born while they were held hostage,were released earlier this monthin an operation involving Pakistan’s military.
Boyle, who told reporters that they were in Afghanistan to help villagers living under Taliban rule,accused the Haqqani networkof "the stupidity and evil of authorizing the murder of my infant daughter" during their five-year ordeal. He also said his wife was raped by a guard.
Members of the Haqqani network and the Afghan Taliban denied Boyle's allegations.
The Haqqani network, whose leader is the deputy head of the Afghan Taliban, also held Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl for five years. The Afghan Taliban obtainedfive top commanders in exchangefor the U.S. soldier in 2014 in a deal with the U.S. that was brokered by Qatar.
Due to their wealth and deep links to local tribes, one Western diplomat once dubbed the Haqqanis "the Kennedys of the Taliban movement."
Related:Hostage Rescue Hints at New Era With Pakistan
The Afghan Taliban said it issued the update on King’s condition in the event the U.S. or his family wanted to negotiate his release.
"If America wanted to save Kevin's life, they should make arrangements for his immediate release," Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said. "At the moment he is alive but may die if not provided better care."
The Haqqanis waged war on NATO forces in Afghanistan and have been blamed for many of the more than 2,000 U.S. military deaths there.
The U.S. has long criticized Pakistan for not aggressively going after the Haqqani network. Pakistan rejects accusations that it shelters the militants.
Mushtaq Yusufzai is a journalist based in Peshawar, Pakistan.
© 2024 NBC UNIVERSAL

Title: U.S. Hostage Kevin King Is Seriously Ill, Afghan Taliban Says

Profile
Sections
tv
Featured
More From NBC
Follow NBC News
There are no new alerts at this time
PESHAWAR, Pakistan — An American professor held hostage by militants is seriously ill and requires immediate treatment, a senior member of the Afghan Taliban told NBC News on Monday.
Kevin King was kidnapped at gunpoint from the American University of Afghanistan in Kabul alongside Australian colleague Timothy Weeks in August 2016.
A Taliban commander, who asked for anonymity as he was not permitted to speak to the media, described the 61-year-old King as being in "serious condition" due to his heart disease and said he urgently requires hospitalization. However, the militants have been unable to arrange that.
“Whatever we could do, we did to save his life but it's beyond our capacity and resources to provide him the quality of care he needs," the militant added.
According to the Taliban commander, King's health has deteriorated in recent weeks despite the fact the group had arranged treatment and obtained drugs for him.
He added that the militants "should not be held responsible" if King were to die.
King and Weeks are both believed to be held by the Haqqani network, a group which is linked to the Afghan Taliban.
The Haqqani network was also responsible for the 2012 kidnapping of the U.S.-Canadian couple Caitlan Coleman and Joshua Boyle in Afghanistan. The pair and their three children, who were born while they were held hostage,were released earlier this monthin an operation involving Pakistan’s military.
Boyle, who told reporters that they were in Afghanistan to help villagers living under Taliban rule,accused the Haqqani networkof "the stupidity and evil of authorizing the murder of my infant daughter" during their five-year ordeal. He also said his wife was raped by a guard.
Members of the Haqqani network and the Afghan Taliban denied Boyle's allegations.
The Haqqani network, whose leader is the deputy head of the Afghan Taliban, also held Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl for five years. The Afghan Taliban obtainedfive top commanders in exchangefor the U.S. soldier in 2014 in a deal with the U.S. that was brokered by Qatar.
Due to their wealth and deep links to local tribes, one Western diplomat once dubbed the Haqqanis "the Kennedys of the Taliban movement."
Related:Hostage Rescue Hints at New Era With Pakistan
The Afghan Taliban said it issued the update on King’s condition in the event the U.S. or his family wanted to negotiate his release.
"If America wanted to save Kevin's life, they should make arrangements for his immediate release," Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said. "At the moment he is alive but may die if not provided better care."
The Haqqanis waged war on NATO forces in Afghanistan and have been blamed for many of the more than 2,000 U.S. military deaths there.
The U.S. has long criticized Pakistan for not aggressively going after the Haqqani network. Pakistan rejects accusations that it shelters the militants.
Mushtaq Yusufzai is a journalist based in Peshawar, Pakistan.
© 2024 NBC UNIVERSAL

Title: U.S. Hostage Kevin King Is Seriously Ill, Afghan Taliban Says

Profile
Sections
tv
Featured
More From NBC
Follow NBC News
There are no new alerts at this time
PESHAWAR, Pakistan — An American professor held hostage by militants is seriously ill and requires immediate treatment, a senior member of the Afghan Taliban told NBC News on Monday.
Kevin King was kidnapped at gunpoint from the American University of Afghanistan in Kabul alongside Australian colleague Timothy Weeks in August 2016.
A Taliban commander, who asked for anonymity as he was not permitted to speak to the media, described the 61-year-old King as being in "serious condition" due to his heart disease and said he urgently requires hospitalization. However, the militants have been unable to arrange that.
“Whatever we could do, we did to save his life but it's beyond our capacity and resources to provide him the quality of care he needs," the militant added.
According to the Taliban commander, King's health has deteriorated in recent weeks despite the fact the group had arranged treatment and obtained drugs for him.
He added that the militants "should not be held responsible" if King were to die.
King and Weeks are both believed to be held by the Haqqani network, a group which is linked to the Afghan Taliban.
The Haqqani network was also responsible for the 2012 kidnapping of the U.S.-Canadian couple Caitlan Coleman and Joshua Boyle in Afghanistan. The pair and their three children, who were born while they were held hostage,were released earlier this monthin an operation involving Pakistan’s military.
Boyle, who told reporters that they were in Afghanistan to help villagers living under Taliban rule,accused the Haqqani networkof "the stupidity and evil of authorizing the murder of my infant daughter" during their five-year ordeal. He also said his wife was raped by a guard.
Members of the Haqqani network and the Afghan Taliban denied Boyle's allegations.
The Haqqani network, whose leader is the deputy head of the Afghan Taliban, also held Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl for five years. The Afghan Taliban obtainedfive top commanders in exchangefor the U.S. soldier in 2014 in a deal with the U.S. that was brokered by Qatar.
Due to their wealth and deep links to local tribes, one Western diplomat once dubbed the Haqqanis "the Kennedys of the Taliban movement."
Related:Hostage Rescue Hints at New Era With Pakistan
The Afghan Taliban said it issued the update on King’s condition in the event the U.S. or his family wanted to negotiate his release.
"If America wanted to save Kevin's life, they should make arrangements for his immediate release," Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said. "At the moment he is alive but may die if not provided better care."
The Haqqanis waged war on NATO forces in Afghanistan and have been blamed for many of the more than 2,000 U.S. military deaths there.
The U.S. has long criticized Pakistan for not aggressively going after the Haqqani network. Pakistan rejects accusations that it shelters the militants.
Mushtaq Yusufzai is a journalist based in Peshawar, Pakistan.
© 2024 NBC UNIVERSAL

Title: US dangerous game plan for Pakistan by making Afghan Taliban another TTP
ISLAMABAD - Washington has said the Taliban group and the Haqqani terrorist network still retain the ability to operate from Pakistan. US wants to blame Pakistan for its defeat in Afghanistan. Recently Afghan Police Chief and the Afghan media had admitted that Afghan Taliban andHaqqani networkhave shifted to Afghanistan but Washington still blames Pakistan for their presence in Pakistan.
US wants to make Pakistan scapegoat for defeat in Afghanistan and desires to bring the Afghan war in Pakistan. It wants Pakistan to take action and provide intelligence information about the Afghan Taliban,Haqqani networkand their families even in Afghanistan so as to make them enemy of Pakistan and make another TTP against Pakistan which can play havoc with Pakistan yet again.
Pakistan Navy Warships held joint military drill with UAE Navy
Pakistan should take caution about making Afghan Taliban another TTP against it on US desire.
US Acting Assistant Secretary for South and Central Asian Affairs and Acting Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan Alice G. Wells told reporters on Friday that “We believe that the Taliban leadership and theHaqqani Networkstill retain an ability to plan, to recuperate, and to reside with their families in Pakistan.
The Quetta and Peshawar leadership councils of the Taliban have their names for a reason.”
PTI Chairman Imran Khan to face Military Trial
Wells further added “And what we saw in 2014 was we saw Pakistan make a strategic decision to defeat the terrorist groups that were targeting the Government of Pakistan.
And with great loss of life, great courage, great vision about what needed to be done, Pakistan has fought that battle and now has regained control and sovereignty over the FATA territories.”
” We’d like to see the same strategic commitment brought against other militant groups, whether they’re – that are operating or have used Pakistan’s territory, whether they are directed against India or directed against Afghanistan,” she added.
Imran Khan to be court martialed along with former ISI Chief Faiz Hameed?
This comes as the Afghan and US officials have long been insisting that the leadership councils of the Taliban and Haqqani terrorist network are based in the key cities of Pakistan, including Peshawar and Quetta, from where they plan and coordinate deadly attacks in Afghanistan.
However, Pakistan has persistently rejected the claims by the Afghan and US officials, saying the country has taken actions against all terror groups without any distinction
