Title: 
U.S. military strikes Taliban meeting in S. Afghanistan - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KABUL, May 24 (Xinhua) -- The U.S. forces in Afghanistan targeted a meeting of Taliban leaders in Musa Qala district of the restive southern Helmand province on Thursday, said a statement of U.S. Forces-Afghanistan released here.
"Task Force-Southwest, under U.S. Forces-Afghanistan authorities, confirmed a ground-based rocket artillery strike using the M142 High Mobility Artillery Rocket System, or HIMARS, against a command and control node for high-level Taliban leaders in Musa Qala district, May 24," the statement said.
Musa Qala district is the main bastion of Taliban militants in the troubled and poppy growing Helmand province.
"The structure was a known meeting location for prominent Taliban leaders, where they planned and facilitated attacks against Afghan National Defense and Security Forces, who are supporting election security in the area," the statement further said.
Without providing details on possible casualties on the Taliban fighters, the statement noted, "Strikes like this one not only degrade Taliban operations, but also give our partners the ability to maintain continuous pressure against a weakened enemy."
Taliban outfit has yet to make comments.
Established in 2009, U.S. Forces-Afghanistan is a U.S.-led mission that directs and enables U.S. military operations in support of Resolute Support, NATO's train, advise and assist mission, as well as is to sustain campaign momentum in Afghanistan.
KABUL, May 24 (Xinhua) -- The U.S. forces in Afghanistan targeted a meeting of Taliban leaders in Musa Qala district of the restive southern Helmand province on Thursday, said a statement of U.S. Forces-Afghanistan released here.
"Task Force-Southwest, under U.S. Forces-Afghanistan authorities, confirmed a ground-based rocket artillery strike using the M142 High Mobility Artillery Rocket System, or HIMARS, against a command and control node for high-level Taliban leaders in Musa Qala district, May 24," the statement said.
Musa Qala district is the main bastion of Taliban militants in the troubled and poppy growing Helmand province.
"The structure was a known meeting location for prominent Taliban leaders, where they planned and facilitated attacks against Afghan National Defense and Security Forces, who are supporting election security in the area," the statement further said.
Without providing details on possible casualties on the Taliban fighters, the statement noted, "Strikes like this one not only degrade Taliban operations, but also give our partners the ability to maintain continuous pressure against a weakened enemy."
Taliban outfit has yet to make comments.
Established in 2009, U.S. Forces-Afghanistan is a U.S.-led mission that directs and enables U.S. military operations in support of Resolute Support, NATO's train, advise and assist mission, as well as is to sustain campaign momentum in Afghanistan.
Copyright © 2000 - 2018 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: 
	      Islamic State In Afghanistan Is Funding Itself With Illegal Exports Of Baby Powder | 
	  The Daily Caller
	
Getty Images/ WAKIL KOHSAR
The Islamic State’s affiliate in Afghanistan is getting rich under the radar through illicit sales of a key ingredient in baby powder and other household products, a global corruption monitor said Tuesday.
The terror group, which goes by the official name Islamic State in the Khorasan Province (ISKP), has in recent years taken over dozens of talcum mines in Afghanistan’s Nangarhar province, according to areportfrom Global Witness, a nonprofit that tracks natural resource exploitation.
ISKP controls at least three sites in Nangarhar’s Achin district, where the group first emerged as a major threat in Afghanistan, Global Witness reported, citing sources close to the operations. Each site is home to between five and 20 talcum mines, giving ISKP access to one of Afghanistan’s most lucrative mineral exports.
Unlike gold, copper and zinc, talcum does not immediately spring to mind as a valuable mining commodity, but it is a big business in South Asia. Between March 2017 and the same month this year, Afghanistan exported more than 500,000 tons of the mineral, mostly to neighboring Pakistan, according to Afghan mining ministry figures cited in the report.
Pakistan in turn mixes the Afghan talcum with its own supplies and exports it to the West, where it is used in a vast array of consumer products including paint, cosmetics, plastics and baby powder. About 80 percent of Pakistan’s talc exports go to the U.S. or Europe, meaning at least some of what Western consumers spend on talc-derived products ultimately benefits ISKP, Global Witness says.
“Unwitting American and European consumers are inadvertently helping fund extremist groups in Afghanistan,” Nick Donovan, the group’s campaign director, said in a statement,according to Reuters.
It is not clear exactly how much money ISKP has earned through sales of talc and other minerals extracted from its mines. Revenue from Nangarhar mines could amount “anywhere from the high tens of thousands to the low millions of dollars a year,” the Global Witness report stated. A plausible mid-range estimate is in the hundreds of thousands, it added.(RELATED: The Taliban Almost Took Over An Afghan City, Proving That It’s Far From ‘Losing Ground’)
The Afghan government has established a special committee to coordinate a security response to the talcum issue, Reuters reported.
Follow Will on Twitter
Send tips towill@dailycallernewsfoundation.org.
All content created by the Daily Caller News Foundation, an independent and nonpartisan newswire service, is available without charge to any legitimate news publisher that can provide a large audience. All republished articles must include our logo, our reporter’s byline and their DCNF affiliation. For any questions about our guidelines or partnering with us, please contactlicensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org.


TRENDING
©2024 The Daily Caller, Inc.
The Daily Caller | 1775 Eye Street NW | Suite 1150-290 | Washington, DC 20006

PREMIUM ARTICLE: Subscribe To Keep Reading
Continue Reading
Already have an account?Login

By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use


By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use

By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use


By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use

By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use


By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use

By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use

By subscribing you agree to ourTerms of Use
$3.00
A Month (Billed Annually)
Cancel Anytime
$8.25
A Month (Billed Annually)
Cancel Anytime
$9.95
A Month
Cancel Anytime
$12.50
A Month (Billed Annually)
Cancel Anytime
Honor Our Heroes Program: Verify your Active Military, Veteran, or First Responder Status for Additional Discounts
Readers,
Instead of sucking up to the political and corporate powers that dominate America, The Daily Caller is fighting for you — our readers. We humbly ask you to consider joining us in this fight.
Now that millions of readers are rejecting the increasingly biased and even corrupt corporate media and
joining us daily, there are powerful forces lined up to stop us: the old guard of the news media hopes
to marginalize us; the big corporate ad agencies want to deprive us of revenue and put us out of business;
senators threaten to have our reporters arrested for asking simple questions; the big tech platforms want
to limit our ability to communicate with you; and the political party establishments feel threatened by our
independence.
We don't complain -- we can't stand complainers -- but we do call it how we see it. We have a fight on our
hands, and it's intense. We need your help to smash through the big tech, big media and big government blockade.
We're the insurgent outsiders for a reason: our deep-dive investigations hold the powerful to account.
Our original videos undermine their narratives on a daily basis. Even our insistence on having fun infuriates
them -- because we won’t bend the knee to political correctness.
One reason we stand apart is because we are not afraid to say we love America. We love her with every fiber of
our being, and we think she's worth saving from today’s craziness.
Help us save her.
A second reason we stand out is the sheer number of honest responsible reporters we have helped train. We have
trained so many solid reporters that they now hold prominent positions at publications across the political
spectrum. Hear a rare reasonable voice at a place like CNN? There’s a good chance they were trained at Daily
Caller. Same goes for the numerous Daily Caller alumni dominating the news coverage at outlets such as Fox News,
Newsmax, Daily Wire and many others.
Simply put, America needs solid reporters fighting to tell the truth or we will never have honest elections or a
fair system. We are working tirelessly to make that happen and we are making a difference.
Since 2010, The Daily Caller has grown immensely. We're in the halls of Congress. We're in the Oval Office.
And we're in up to 20 million homes every single month. That's 20 million Americans like you who are impossible
to ignore.
We can overcome the forces lined up against all of us. This is an important mission but we can’t do it unless you —
the everyday Americans forgotten by the establishment — have our back.
Please consider becoming a Daily Caller Patriot today, and help us keep doing work that holds politicians,
corporations and other leaders accountable. Help us thumb our noses at political correctness. Help us train a new
generation of news reporters who will actually tell the truth. And help us remind Americans everywhere that there
are millions of us who remain clear-eyed about our country's greatness.
In return for membership, Daily Caller Patriots will be able to read The Daily Caller without any of the ads that
we have long used to support our mission. We know the ads drive you crazy. They drive us crazy too. But we need
revenue to keep the fight going. If you join us, we will cut out the ads for you and put every Lincoln-headed cent
we earn into amplifying our voice, training even more solid reporters, and giving you the ad-free experience and
lightning fast website you deserve.
Patriots will also be eligible for Patriots Only content, newsletters, chats and live events with our reporters
and editors. It's simple: welcome us into your lives, and we'll welcome you into ours.
We can save America together.
Become a Daily Caller Patriot today.
Neil Patel
Internal promotions, affiliate content, recommended content and spam will be embedded in their paid
content and players may still be included on the site.
CONTENT
CONTINUE READING FOR$120$1
ALSO, ENJOY THE MANY BENEFITS OF PATRIOTS MEMBERSHIP

Title: US consumers are the largest buyers of talc helping fund insurgent groups in Afghanistan
YubaNet
We Deliver News to the Sierra
Be the first to know, sign up for our newsletter, absolutely free of course.
May 22, 2018 – The Islamic State in Afghanistan (ISKP) controls major mining sites in eastern Afghanistan and has a strategic interest in the country’s rich mineral resources, new Global Witness research shows – a powerful example of the wider threat posed by armed groups and corrupt actors in Afghan mining.
Read the entire reporthere.
The Islamic State in Afghanistan (ISKP) controls large talc, marble and chromite mines in the Islamic State (IS) stronghold of Achin district in the Nangarhar province of eastern Afghanistan – the same area where in April 2017 the US military dropped the ‘Mother of All Bombs’ against ISKP-held caves. Nangarhar was the deadliest Afghan province for US troops in 2017.
The evidence on how much ISKP have been able to mine and profit from the minerals is mixed, but there has been at least some activity – and the group has fought major battles with the Taliban over neighboring districts containing even richer deposits. A Taliban commander explicitly linked the ferocity of the conflict to competition over resources, saying: “The fight is over the mines.”
Nick Donovan, Campaign Director at Global Witness, said: “The Islamic State appears to have a significant strategic interest in Afghanistan’s minerals and controls some major mining areas. Given its track-record of exploiting natural resources in Iraq and Syria, this should be a wake-up call for both the Afghan government and the Trump administration. They must strengthen control over the trade in places like Nangarhar, but just as importantly put in place desperately needed transparency and oversight reforms so that legitimate mining has a chance to provide a viable alternative.”
Global Witness’ report‘At any price we will take the mines’: the Islamic State, the Taliban, and Afghanistan’s white talc mountainsuses satellite imagery and extensive interviews to highlight this threat in unprecedented detail. But it also shows how ISKP are just a high-profile example of a much wider problem of the involvement of armed groups and corrupt actors in Afghan mining.
This is evident just 50 kilometers from the ISKP controlled sites, where dozens of mines under Taliban influence are producing talc and marble in large quantities. Global Witness research uncovered evidence that the Taliban are making millions a year from talc alone – part of the $200-$300 million a year they are estimated to make from minerals across Afghanistan.
A significant part of this talc ends up being sold in the United States. Almost all of Afghanistan’s output is exported to Pakistan, which in turn exports more of it to the US than to any other country. Pakistan provides more than a third of US imports of talc, which is used in products ranging from paint and cosmetics to paper and baby powder. EU countries are also major buyers.
“Unwitting American and European consumers are inadvertently helping fund extremist groups in Afghanistan,” said Donovan. “The US and other importing countries must put in place strong requirements for companies to exercise full due diligence of their supply chains – as a matter both of moral duty, and of their strategic national security interest in a stable Afghanistan.”
He added: “the ultimate aim is not to stop the trade but to reform it in a way that preserves and strengthens the livelihoods of ordinary Afghans without funding the Islamic State, other illegal armed groups, or abusive strongmen.”
There are no easy solutions to achieve this, but there are obvious reforms that could help, and which have yet to but put in place. The Afghan government and its international partners should urgently:
Independent, local journalism needs your support to survive and thrive. The default contribution frequency is set to monthly, but pick whatever works for you. Thank you.
Your contribution is appreciated.

For the US in particular, abuses in the Afghan mining sector should be a major security concern, but so far the Trump administration’s main priority has been to push for US companies to get more contracts for Afghan resources. The US should do three things:
The Afghan government has made clear and welcome commitments to most of these reforms, but they have yet to be implemented – upcoming amendments to the Afghan Mining Law will be a key test. A ban on the talc trade was imposed in early 2015, but was lifted later that year under pressure from traders.
“The Afghan government and its partners need to start treating this problem with a sense of urgency that matches the scale of the threat,” Donovan said. “They are counting on Afghanistan’s resources to fuel development and fund the government, but as our research shows all too clearly, without immediate action, they are far more likely to fuel more corruption and conflict.”
Notes:
We've recently sent you an authentication link. Please, check your inbox!
Sign in with a password below, orsign in using your email.
Get a code sent to your email to sign in, orsign in using a password.
Enter the code you received via email to sign in, orsign in using a password.
Subscribe to our newsletters:
Sign in with your email
Lost your password?
Try a different email
Send another code
Sign in with a password
By signing up, you agree to our Terms of Service.

Title: Ekklesia | Islamic State and Taliban fighting over Afghan talc riches
The Islamic State in Afghanistan (ISKP) controls major mining sites in eastern Afghanistan and has a strategic interest in the country’s rich mineral resources, new Global Witness research shows – a powerful example of the wider threat posed by armed groups and corrupt actors in Afghan mining.
ISKP controls large talc, marble and chromite mines in the Islamic State (IS) stronghold of Achin district in the Nangarhar province of eastern Afghanistan – the same area where in April 2017 the US military dropped the ‘Mother of All Bombs’ against ISKP-held caves. Nangarhar was the deadliest Afghan province for US troops in 2017.
The evidence on how much ISKP have been able to mine and profit from the minerals is mixed, but there has been at least some activity – and the group has fought major battles with the Taliban over neighbouring districts containing even richer deposits. A Taliban commander explicitly linked the ferocity of the conflict to competition over resources, saying: “The fight is over the mines.”
Nick Donovan, Campaign Director at Global Witness, said: “The Islamic State appears to have a significant strategic interest in Afghanistan’s minerals and controls some major mining areas. Given its track-record of exploiting natural resources in Iraq and Syria, this should be a wake-up call for both the Afghan government and the Trump administration. They must strengthen control over the trade in places like Nangarhar, but just as importantly put in place desperately needed transparency and oversight reforms so that legitimate mining has a chance to provide a viable alternative.”
Global Witness’ reportAt any price we will take the mines: the Islamic State, the Taliban, and Afghanistan’s white talc mountainsuses satellite imagery and extensive interviews to highlight this threat in unprecedented detail. But it also shows how ISKP are just a high-profile example of a much wider problem of the involvement of armed groups and corrupt actors in Afghan mining.
This is evident just 50 kilometres from the ISKP controlled sites, where dozens of mines under Taliban influence are producing talc and marble in large quantities. Global Witness research uncovered evidence that the Taliban are making millions a year from talc alone – part of the $200-$300 million a year they are estimated to make from minerals across Afghanistan.
A significant part of this talc ends up being sold in the United States. Almost all of Afghanistan’s output is exported to Pakistan, which in turn exports more of it to the US than to any other country. Pakistan provides more than a third of US imports of talc, which is used in products ranging from paint and cosmetics to paper and baby powder. EU countries are also major buyers.
“Unwitting American and European consumers are inadvertently helping fund extremist groups in Afghanistan,” said Donovan. “The US and other importing countries must put in place strong requirements for companies to exercise full due diligence of their supply chains – as a matter both of moral duty, and of their strategic national security interest in a stable Afghanistan.”
He added: “the ultimate aim is not to stop the trade but to reform it in a way that preserves and strengthens the livelihoods of ordinary Afghans without funding the Islamic State, other illegal armed groups, or abusive strongmen.”
There are no easy solutions to achieve this, but there are obvious reforms that could help, and which have yet to but put in place. The Afghan government and its international partners should urgently:
For the US in particular, abuses in the Afghan mining sector should be a major security concern, but so far the Trump administration’s main priority has been to push for US companies to get more contracts for Afghan resources. The US should do three things:
The Afghan government has made clear and welcome commitments to most of these reforms, but they have yet to be implemented – upcoming amendments to the Afghan Mining Law will be a key test. A ban on the talc trade was imposed in early 2015, but was lifted later that year under pressure from traders.
“The Afghan government and its partners need to start treating this problem with a sense of urgency that matches the scale of the threat”, Donovan said. “They are counting on Afghanistan’s resources to fuel development and fund the government, but as our research shows all too clearly, without immediate action, they are far more likely to fuel more corruption and conflict.”
The global talc industry is predicted to grow to around US $3.29 billion by 2021. An estimated 380,000 tons of talc was imported into the United States in 2017. On average around 35 per cent of US imports are from Pakistan, according to the US Geological Survey. Global Witness research also estimated that around 80 per centof Pakistan’s 2016 exports of talc actually originated in Afghanistan. Of those exports, 42 per cent went to the US, and another 36 per cent went to EU countries, especially the Netherlands and Italy.
Chromite is the only economic ore of chromium, which is widely used as an essential element in the production of stainless steel and other steel alloys. Marble produced in Afghanistan is also renowned for its quality, with uses ranging from flooring and tiles to decorative objects.
* Download‘At any price we will take the mines’: the Islamic State, the Taliban, and Afghanistan’s white talc mountainshere
* Global Witnesshttps://www.globalwitness.org/en-gb/
[Ekk/6]
This is an archive of the old site, please visit the new site atwww.ekklesia.co.uk
Tweets by @Ekklesia_co_uk

Title: UNHCR Web Archive


Title: Government of Canada lists the Islamic State - Khorasan Province as a terrorist entity | Markets Insider
OTTAWA, May 30, 2018 /CNW/ - The Government of Canada'sCriminal Codelisting regime is one of many tools for countering terrorism in Canada and globally, and is part of the Government's commitment to keep Canadians safe. Today the Government of Canada has listed the Islamic State – Khorasan Province (ISKP) as a terrorist entity under theCriminal Code.
The actions of ISKP meet the legal threshold set out in theCriminal Code, which requires the existence of reasonable grounds to believe that an entity has knowingly participated in or facilitated a terrorist activity or is acting in association with a listed entity.
Established in January 2015, ISKP is a violent Sunni extremist group seeking to establish the Khorasan province in the Afghanistan/Pakistan region as part of the global caliphate of the Islamic State (IS). ISKP has carried out attacks and kidnappings against a number of targets, including aid organizations, civilians and security forces. ISKP has claimed responsibility for the June 2016 bomb attack that targeted a bus carrying security guards contracted by the Canadian Embassy in Kabul, killing at least 14 people; the October 2016 attack on a police training center in Quetta that killed at least 59 people and injured 100; the May 2017 attack in Kabul on a convoy of NATO soldiers that killed 8 civilians and wounded 25; and, the January 2018 attack in Jalalabad on the international charity "Save the Children" that killed at least 6 people and wounded 27.
In addition to the new listed terrorist entity, the primary name of Jabhat al-Nusra (JN) has been changed to Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham (HTS), and the term Daesh has been added as an alias for the Islamic State. Terrorist groups are continuously forming, merging, and renaming themselves and are known to be strategically changing their names to operate under aliases not yet specified by current sanctions or listing regimes. This is why it is important to constantly review the list in order to adapt it to new realities and improve its accuracy.
TheCriminal Codemandates potentially severe penalties for people and organizations that deal with property or finances of a listed entity. It is a crime to knowingly participate in, or contribute to, any activity of a listed entity for the purpose of enhancing the ability of the entity to facilitate or carry out a terrorist activity.

Quotes
"Today's update of theCriminal Codeterrorist entity listings is an important step in our efforts to fight terrorism globally and ensure Canada remains a safe and peaceful country. The Government of Canada is unwavering in its commitment to protect the safety and security of Canadians, and to safeguard our rights and freedoms, and the open, inclusive character of our country. We will continue to take appropriate action to curtail the spread of terrorism internationally and to counter terrorist threats to Canada, its citizens and its interests around the world."
-The Honourable Ralph Goodale, Minister of Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness
Quick Facts
Associated Links


SOURCE  Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness Canada
Indices
Commodities
Currencies
Stocks

Title: Government of Canada lists the Islamic State - Khorasan Province as a terrorist entity  - Benzinga
Canada NewsWire
OTTAWA, May 30, 2018
OTTAWA, May 30, 2018 /CNW/ - The Government of Canada'sCriminal Codelisting regime is one of many tools for countering terrorism in Canada and globally, and is part of the Government's commitment to keep Canadians safe. Today the Government of Canada has listed the Islamic State – Khorasan Province (ISKP) as a terrorist entity under theCriminal Code.
The actions of ISKP meet the legal threshold set out in theCriminal Code, which requires the existence of reasonable grounds to believe that an entity has knowingly participated in or facilitated a terrorist activity or is acting in association with a listed entity.
Established in January 2015, ISKP is a violent Sunni extremist group seeking to establish the Khorasan province in the Afghanistan/Pakistan region as part of the global caliphate of the Islamic State (IS). ISKP has carried out attacks and kidnappings against a number of targets, including aid organizations, civilians and security forces. ISKP has claimed responsibility for the June 2016 bomb attack that targeted a bus carrying security guards contracted by the Canadian Embassy in Kabul, killing at least 14 people; the October 2016 attack on a police training center in Quetta that killed at least 59 people and injured 100; the May 2017 attack in Kabul on a convoy of NATO soldiers that killed 8 civilians and wounded 25; and, the January 2018 attack in Jalalabad on the international charity "Save the Children" that killed at least 6 people and wounded 27.
In addition to the new listed terrorist entity, the primary name of Jabhat al-Nusra (JN) has been changed to Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham (HTS), and the term Daesh has been added as an alias for the Islamic State. Terrorist groups are continuously forming, merging, and renaming themselves and are known to be strategically changing their names to operate under aliases not yet specified by current sanctions or listing regimes. This is why it is important to constantly review the list in order to adapt it to new realities and improve its accuracy.
TheCriminal Codemandates potentially severe penalties for people and organizations that deal with property or finances of a listed entity. It is a crime to knowingly participate in, or contribute to, any activity of a listed entity for the purpose of enhancing the ability of the entity to facilitate or carry out a terrorist activity.
Quotes
"Today's update of theCriminal Codeterrorist entity listings is an important step in our efforts to fight terrorism globally and ensure Canada remains a safe and peaceful country. The Government of Canada is unwavering in its commitment to protect the safety and security of Canadians, and to safeguard our rights and freedoms, and the open, inclusive character of our country. We will continue to take appropriate action to curtail the spread of terrorism internationally and to counter terrorist threats to Canada, its citizens and its interests around the world."
-The Honourable Ralph Goodale, Minister of Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness
Quick Facts
Associated Links

SOURCE  Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness Canada

View original content:http://www.newswire.ca/en/releases/archive/May2018/30/c8024.html
© 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved.
Trade confidently with insights and alerts from analyst ratings, free reports and breaking news that affects the stocks you care about.

Title: Afghanistan: Weak Investigations of Civilian Airstrike Deaths | Human Rights Watch
US, Afghan Forces Need to Visit Sites, Obtain Witness Accounts
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
(New York) – TheUnited Statesand Afghan governments are not adequately investigating possibly unlawful airstrikes inAfghanistan, which may contribute to rising civilian casualties, Human Rights Watch said today.
Recent accounts from airstrike victims and witnesses in Nangarhar and other Afghan provinces uncovered major failings in US and Afghan investigations of civilian deaths, injuries, and property damage – notably the unwillingness to interview witnesses and obtain other evidence on site.
“US and Afghan forces have an obligation to investigate possible laws-of-war violations when their airstrikes harm civilians,” saidPatricia Gossman, senior Afghanistan researcher. “But unless you interview survivors and witnesses, you’re not going to get the full story. Inadequate investigations into civilian loss from airstrikes may violate the laws of war and deny victims justice and appropriate redress, which fosters distrust and resentment toward the Afghan and US governments.”
Between November 2017 and April 2018, Human Rights Watch interviewed 42 civilian airstrike victims and witnesses in Nangarhar, Herat, and Kabul provinces. Human Rights Watch found that the Afghan government has developed almost no capacity to investigate civilian casualties arising from its military operations. Overall it has apoor track recordconducting investigations into its own military. At the same time, US forces have downsized their civilian casualties tracking mechanisms and never conduct on-site investigations after attacks resulting in civilian casualties, relying instead on visual and satellite imagery and unreliable Afghan security force reports.
Senior Afghanistan Researcher
The United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) has reported that civilian casualties from US and Afghan airstrikes have increased since 2016 as air operations in Afghanistan have increased. In 2017, UNAMAdocumented 631 civilian casualties(295 deaths and 336 injuries) from 139 aerial operations conducted by Afghan government and US forces – a seven percent increase over 2016, and the highest yearly total of civilian casualties from airstrikes since systematic documentation began in 2009. Civilian casualties from air operations represent six percent of all civilian casualties from the conflict. Since 2015, attacks by insurgents have accounted for about65 percent of all civilian casualtiesin the conflict.
Civilian casualty tracking in Afghanistan is currently conducted by the Afghan and US governments. Prior to the end of NATO’s combat mission in 2014, its Civilian Casualty Tracking Cell and Civilian Casualty Mitigation Team were responsible for tracking and investigating civilian casualty incidents, which contributed to some improvements in reporting and incorporating lessons learned to reduce civilian loss. NATO’s noncombatResolute Support Missionhas a significantly reduced civilian casualty team that that tracks incidents arising from both Resolute Support and the separate US combat mission.
The Afghan government took over basic tracking of casualties caused by its forces at the Presidential Information and Coordination Center, known as the Tawhid. The Tawhid collects information about civilian casualties, butdoes not conduct independent investigations. The Tawhid director told Human Rights Watch that it refers questions about a reported incident to the original reporting force – army, police, or air force. For some incidents, often high-profile, central or provincial authorities may order an investigation that involves other officials. These findings are not made public. The Afghan government provides a small payment to those injured, and to the families of those killed, in any conflict related incident.
US forces conduct only internal investigations into what they consider to be credible reports of civilian casualties. The Resolute Support civilian casualty team told Human Rights Watch that because of security concerns, the team never conducts site visits or speaks to witnesses or others on the ground, a practice similar to US military practice elsewhere. The team said it relies on evidence from video and still images, and on intelligence sources. It does not take into account information from outside sources, or sources considered to be pro-insurgent, a category that includes some Afghan government officials.
The failure to interview witnesses is a critical flaw in the Resolute Support civilian casualty investigation methodology because it excludes a key source of information, typically leaving investigators with only one side of the story. Witness statements are critical to any investigation when corroborated with other sources of information, such as site visits, physical evidence, photographic evidence, medical reports, hospital records, and other evidence. Resolute Support does not rely on any forensic or medical documentation not provided by its sources.
Under the laws of war applicable to the armed conflict in Afghanistan, warring parties must take constant care to spare the civilian population and civilian objects from the effects of hostilities. Parties are required to take precautionary measures with a view to avoiding, and in any event, minimizing, incidental loss of civilian life, injury to civilians, and damage to civilian objects. States have an obligation to investigate alleged serious violations of the laws of war and appropriately prosecute those responsible for war crimes. Civilians harmed by violations are entitled to prompt and appropriate compensation.
The Afghan government should improve its tracking and investigation procedures and ensure accountability for laws-of-war violations. The US government should robustly investigate incidents involving civilian casualties by seeking out evidence from a wider range of sources outside the US military, including witnesses.
“Our investigations of recent airstrikes killing dozens of Afghan civilians show that little real effort was made to uncover what happened,” Gossman said. “For these human tragedies to stop, the US and Afghan governments need to do more to fully investigate incidents and learn from them, and appropriately punish those responsible for unlawful civilian deaths.”
The border districts of Nangarhar province have seen intense fighting since 2016, as Afghan government forces operating with US air support have stepped up military operations in areas controlled by the insurgent Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP, a branch of the Islamic State). The ISKP emerged in 2015 out of a loose affiliation of militant organizations driven out of Pakistan by military operations in 2009-2010. ISKP has exercised brutal control over these districts, extorting taxes, forcing schools and clinics to close, and summarily executing some who resisted. ISKP cells have carried out suicide bombings in Jalalabad, Kabul, and other cities, killing and injuring hundreds of civilians.
Since January 2017, US forces have carried out numerous air operations in eastern Nangarhar province. In December and February, Human Rights Watch interviewed residents from Nangarhar districts who said that some of these air operations killed and injured civilians. No findings of any US or Afghan investigations into these attacks have been made public.
On August 10, 2017, a private vehicle traveling from the ISKP-controlled village of Loi Papin in Haska Mena district sustained serious damage, killing at least nine people and severely injuring one. The sole survivor, Rozina, 17, told Human Rights Watch that she and her family were fleeing the area because troop movements indicated that military operations were imminent:
We expected that Afghan or US forces would bomb by the next day. We drove for a few minutes and I saw a plane in the sky. There was a noise and I fell unconscious. When I woke, my father and brothers were dead. My aunt and cousins were injured and screaming, but I was hurt and couldn’t move. They died because no one came to help. I was there for hours before someone came.
A villager in the area carried Rozina from the wreckage. Her uncle Zafar Khan tried to reach the site but said the roads were blocked. After the district governor intervened, Zafar Khan and other relatives were allowed into the area for two hours to bury the bodies.
The next day, August 11, a Resolute Support spokesperson stated that US military forceshad destroyed a vehicle“loaded with militants and munitions,” and that “the strike was conducted in the middle of open terrain. There was zero chance of civilian casualties.” In May, Resolute Support’s civilian casualty team told Human Rights Watch that the strike did not hit a civilian vehicle, but a militants’ vehicle seven kilometers away. The team said the civilian vehicle could have hit an improvised explosive device (IED).
Local and provincial officials reported the incident as an airstrike. A spokesperson for the Nangarhar provincial governor said thatthere had been an airstrikein the Haska Mina district that caused civilian casualties. An Afghan defense ministry spokesperson said the governmenthad appointed a delegationto investigate the incident, but no findings were ever made public.
A photo purportedly showing the vehicleappeared in international media. A weapons expert told Human Rights Watch that it was not possible to determine from the single photo what had caused damage to the vehicle, which was blown over on its side.
Rozina received emergency medical care for injuries to her eyes and leg. It is not clear whether she or her relatives received the standard government payment of 50,000 Afs (US$705) per injury and 100,000 Afs (US$1,410) per death. As of April 2018, she needed further treatment not available in Nangarhar. “I am dependent on my brother now,” she said. “I am supposed to get married, but my in-laws think I cannot now. I have no hope for the future, but if I get treatment, I would have hope.”
On the evening of July 22, 2017, Afghan armed forces launched a military operation against ISKP in Haska Mena district. A US airstrike on a funeral killed at least nine people. Nangarhar’spublic health director confirmedthat eight people, including six women, injured in the airstrike were bought to the hospital in Jalalabad.
Witnesses told Human Rights Watch that local residents had gathered for the funeral of a prominent tribal elder, Haji Aman Pacha.
S. Agha, whose mother, sister, and sister-in-law were killed in the airstrike, said:
There was a mourning ceremony and [people] were there to sympathize with the family.… My sister and mother were entering the guesthouse gate, and my sister-in-law was close by when the bomb hit. Their car is half buried in a ditch. The house was in between where there was fighting, about 200 meters in each direction. The airstrikes hit the guesthouse and the car.
S. Agha said the authorities had warned residents in nearby villages about the upcoming military operations, but not their village:
The government told the residents of Gorgora and Papin that they were going to launch an operation and they must leave. These people moved into our area temporarily, believing it would be safe. Most people could not afford to rent places in Jalalabad city. [Afterward] I argued with the Jalalabad police chief: “You warned people in Gorgora and Papin but not Mariz. If this area was secure, why did American forces launch a military operation here?” The police chief told me the American forces had launched the operation on their own.
Inone media report, an Afghan official claimed that the man whose funeral it was had been an ISKP commander, and that ISKP members had gathered for the funeral. Adistrict official statedthat ISKP militants had fired at Afghan security forces from buildings near the funeral.
A US spokespersonconfirmed the airstrikebut said it was against armed insurgents, and that there were “no indications that civilians were in the area either before the strike or after the strike.”
S. Agha said that government officials had provided some assistance to the families of those killed and injured, and that President Ashraf Ghani had met with village residents after the incident and promised them additional assistance.
Human Rights Watch is unaware of any investigations into the attack or any findings being made public.
In early January 2018, the Afghan armed forces carried out military operations in Pachir Agam and surrounding districts of Nangarhar province. On or around January 5, a private vehicle with at least eight civilian passengers, including men over age 60, women, and children, was traveling to attend a funeral for relatives killed in a drone strike in Karki when an Afghan attack helicopter strafed it. Three people were killed, including one woman, and at least five were injured.
Mohammad, 30, told Human Rights Watch that at 8 a.m. he had driven with his wife, their two children, Abida, 4, and Shakerullah, 2, and several other villagers to Karki. During the trip they heard a helicopter: “After that I can’t remember. We were in the back of the car and were thrown out.”
Bahadur Khan, 65, suffered severe injuries to his leg and pelvis:
The car was hit. There was ashhhhhsound – then I don’t remember after that. I was unconscious for three days. My hip bones were broken, and I’ve lost all feeling in one leg. I cannot walk unaided. I am ashamed that I cannot sit up. If I had died it would be better, but now I am disabled, and other people must help me do everything. I know I cannot recover.
Abdullah, 15, had both feet amputated:
I just saw the helicopter, then it happened. I don’t remember anything until I woke in the hospital. When I saw I had no feet – this was very hard. [A nongovernmental organization] promised to give me a wheelchair. If I were not disabled, I would support my family.
Hayat, 70, said:
Suddenly we heard a loud sound and people were thrown around – a woman in the seat behind the driver died. The driver and the man next to him were killed. There were four women and some children in the car. The villagers came and took the bodies and helped the injured people. I still feel burning pain in my hands. I lost a lot of my hearing. Why did it happen? Allah knows why. We were civilians – women and children. We don’t know why they kill us.
Human Rights Watch is unaware of any government investigation into the incident.
Mohammad said: “We went for a burial and got bombed. How can we ever go about normal life?”
Insurgent Attacks on Civilians in Afghanistan
Philippine Police Killings in Duterte’s “War on Drugs”
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
Human Rights Watch defends the rights of people in close to 100 countries worldwide, spotlighting abuses and bringing perpetrators to justice
Get updates on human rights issues from around the globe. Join our movement today.
Every weekday, get the world’s top human rights news, explored and explained by Andrew Stroehlein.
Human Rights Watchis a 501(C)(3) nonprofit registered in the US under EIN: 13-2875808

Title: Afghanistan: Insurgent Attacks on Civilians Escalate | Human Rights Watch
Government and Donors Need to Bolster Support for Victims
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
(New York) – Increased insurgent attacks on civilians inAfghanistanhave left victims’ families and survivors in dire need of financial, medical, and psychosocial support, Human Rights Watch said in a report released today. The Afghan government should ensure programs to assist victims of attacks by the Taliban and Islamic State-linked armed groups reach those in need.
“Insurgents who detonate bombs in mosques or at busy intersections with the intent of inflicting maximum civilian casualties are committing war crimes,” saidPatricia Gossman, senior Afghanistan researcher at Human Rights Watch and author of the report. “Victims’ families and survivors may lose livelihoods and suffer harms that persist long after the attack. But Afghan government efforts to help these families has fallen short.”
Insurgent Attacks on Civilians in Afghanistan
Download the full report in English
Download the summary and recommendations in Pashto
Download the summary and recommendations in Dari
The 49-page report, “‘No Safe Place’: Insurgent Attacks on Civilians in Afghanistan,” documents attacks since 2016 by the Taliban and groups affiliated with the Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP), an affiliate of the Islamic State. While the Taliban claim they do not target civilians, the report documentsindiscriminate attacks by the Talibanthat have killed and injured thousands. ISKP-linked groupshave targeted civilian facilitiesin urban areas of Afghanistan, including many Shia mosques. The report, based on interviews with 45 civilian victims of insurgent attacks and their relatives, highlights the lasting consequences of the attacks on affected families and communities.
Since early 2016, insurgent groups in Afghanistanhave sharply escalated their attacksin Kabul and other major urban areas, killing and injuring thousands of civilians. In interviews with Human Rights Watch, relatives of people killed in insurgent attacks described the cascading negative consequences for victims’ families: the devastating financial impact for those who have lost a breadwinner; the social consequences, especially for women who are suddenly widowed, becoming dependent on other members of their husband’s family for support and limited in where they can live and work; and the impact on children who have had to leave school, either because their family can no longer afford the cost or because the child must work in order to supplement the family’s income. Each death has a ripple effect on the family network, with spouses, children, parents, and other relatives suffering losses in support, emotional and social security, and income.
Many of those Human Rights Watch interviewed also describedserious emotional and psychological traumaas a result of witnessing and surviving such attacks. Theescalation in insurgent attacksin the past two years, bringing increased insecurity, uncertainty, violence, and economic hardship, has exacerbated trauma and psychological distress.

The Afghan government offers some financial assistance to those injured and to the families of those killed in insurgent attacks. However, many of those we interviewed said they had received no government assistance despite promises that such aid was forthcoming. Others said that the process for obtaining assistance was prohibitively onerous, or was tainted by corruption, with some receiving assistance and others not.
Human Rights Watch called on the Taliban and other insurgent groups to cease all intentional attacks on civilians and civilian objects – including schools, hospitals, places of worship, and homes not being used for military purposes. They should also cease all attacks that fail to discriminate between civilians and combatants, or that could be expected to cause disproportionate harm to civilians, as well asperfidious attacks, such as using an ambulance to conceal bombs. Insurgent commanders who order or are otherwise responsible for serious laws of war violations should be held to account.
The Afghan government has the responsibility under international law to protect the lives of all those under its jurisdiction and to bring those who commit serious international crimes to justice. It should also formalize through regulation or legislation the current ad hoc system or create a new program forproviding assistance to civilian victimsof the conflict, including those injured or those who have lost a family member from insurgent attacks.
The government should launch a campaign to inform the general public about the procedure for obtaining financial assistance or other support. Support should be equitably distributed, and complaints of corruption and discrimination should be promptly investigated. The government should also develop and implement measures to provide psychosocial support to survivors of attacks, whether by insurgents or government and allied forces.
Afghanistan’s international donors should support programs to provide financial and other assistance, including psychosocial services, to civilian victims of attacks by all parties to the conflict.
“Victims of insurgent attacks are more than statistics – they are Afghans who deserve to be treated with dignity and have access to the services they need,” Gossman said. “The Afghan government and its international donors should step up to support them.”
I found myself under dust, furniture, and window glass. It was hard to breathe or stand.… My body, clothes, and even my shoes were full of blood and I could hardly walk. I saw a colleague’s body, furniture, glass all around. I realized I was walking toward an inferno.–Hashim (pseudonym), who was injured in the May 31, 2017 truck bomb attack in central Kabul
I heard a loud sound – everything went dark and I fell. Then I felt like my leg was on fire. A relative of mine heard me screaming.… When I woke up I discovered they had amputated my leg below the knee.… I can’t work anymore, and I have financial problems.… It is a very bad situation.–Sardar M., a plumber, who was injured in the March 1, 2017 attack by the Taliban on a police station in Kabul
We have lost the head of our family.… We are helpless. My children can’t go to school now, I can’t afford their fees.–Sugra Hussein, whose husband was killed in the October 20, 2017 ISKP attack on the Imam Zaman Mosque in Kabul
I was taking glass out of my feet for many days after. No one should see such a day! I was treated at the hospital and went home, but I am not well. My husband has been ill for some time, so I must work, but I cannot now. I need psychological help.–Sima, who was injured in the August 1, 2017 ISKP attack on theJawadiya Mosque in Herat
It was really hard for my family as I am the only breadwinner. I still have shrapnel in my back. My stomach had 30 sutures and I still feel pain. I can’t do heavy work at my shop, so I had to hire an assistant. There is no safe place in Kabul – you don’t know where the next attack will be.–Mohammad A., shopkeeper who survived the July 27, 2017 Taliban attack on a government employee shuttle bus in Kabul
Insurgent Attacks on Civilians in Afghanistan
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
Human Rights Watch defends the rights of people in close to 100 countries worldwide, spotlighting abuses and bringing perpetrators to justice
Get updates on human rights issues from around the globe. Join our movement today.
Every weekday, get the world’s top human rights news, explored and explained by Andrew Stroehlein.
Human Rights Watchis a 501(C)(3) nonprofit registered in the US under EIN: 13-2875808

Title: Will CIA Cease Interfering In Pakistan’s FATA – OpEd – Eurasia Review
A Journal of Analysis and News

Location of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) in Pakistan. Source: Wikipedia Commons.
ByC Andrew*
The Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) lies on Pakistan’s western border and covers an area of 27,220 square kilometers and inhabited by a population of 5,001,676 people (according to 2017 census). Its terrain is one of the most difficult in the world. Harsh environment and historical and cultural factors have made its populace one of the most rigid and toughest in the world. Love for independence and bravery are the identity of the area.
FATA is a traditional and tribal society where literacy rate is low, development is at infancy, and employment opportunities are rare. The society in FATA is governed by customs and traditions. Arms and weapons are considered as part of the dress of males. Revenge dominates all customs and traditions as it lasts for decades taking lives of people generation after generation. Tribal fighting, feuds and animosities are the normal business of the day of the people living in FATA. Despite these facts, FATA was considered as one of the most peaceful areas in the country just as Pakistan’s western border was thought to be safe for about 55 years since the independence of Pakistan. The authorities never felt a need to deploy armed forces either in FATA or Pakistan’s western border with Afghanistan since 1947.
However, the situation changed at the dawn of the 21st century. The events following 9/11 changed the situation in FATA as it did in other parts of the world. Under American pressure, the Pakistani government deployed its troops on its border with Afghanistan and also launched military operations against suspected militants settled in FATA. The successive attempts – both military and political – to clear the area from foreign militants did not succeed and various imprudent policies pursued by Pakistani government sowed the seeds of hatred in the area towards the state functionaries and institutions including the armed forces. The reactionary elements took arms against Pakistani state, formed various militia groups and militant organizations under different banners, Tahreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) being the most prominent among them. These militant groups operate either in Afghanistan or Pakistan or in both countries.
Reportedly, US has claimed that FATA provides sanctuaries to Afghan Taliban fighting against the US-led coalition forces in Afghanistan. The American government wanted a full-fledged military operation either by coalition forces or Pakistani troops in FATA to root out the resistance movement in Afghanistan. However, Pakistani government did not cede to this demand.
Alternatively, the US government launched, apparently with the help of Pakistani authorities, a campaign of drone strikes run by its premier spy agency, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), which has taken the lives of over 2,500 people and left hundreds others wounded since 2005. On the other, hand they have also stated funding to the militant groups particularly TTP to start a war against the state of Pakistan which claimed around 50,000 lives and leaving many more injured in the country.
Another adventure of the CIA is the establishment of the Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP) in January 2015 with former TTP militant Hafiz Saeed Khan as its leader. Defunct militants from various terrorist organizations such as TTP, Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) have not only joined ISKP, but also pledged allegiance to ISIS and its leader Abu Bakr al- Baghdadi. According to the Story Maps website, during 2017 in Pakistan, ISKP carried out attack on the shrine of Sehwan Sharif and the Police Training College in Quetta, which resulted death of 150 innocent people.
There are several instances that reveal that the CIA is supporting terrorist outfits in FATA to carry out terror activities inside Pakistan such as, a CIA helicopter evacuated top TTP leadership into Afghanistan before the start of Pakistani military operation, terrorists from TTP enjoy safe havens inside Afghanistan with the help of CIA and RAW, satellite mobile phones from a Gulf state were provided to the terrorists of TTP and SWAT, the CIA helped RAW establish a base in Afghanistan, no CIA drones have ever attacked any of the TTP and SWAT terrorists, as they are freely called by BBC and western media and the Nuristan province in Afghanistan has a base run by CIA, RAW and NDS that provides full support to terrorists inside Pakistan. Recently, the CIA in collaboration with Ministry of Tribal Affairs Afghanistan through NDS is funding and patronizing the Pashtoon Tehafuz Movement to create disenchantment and ill feeling among the tribal and Pakistan government.
It was upon this background that after putting up with so much for so long, the chief of the prime intelligence agency of Pakistan ultimately confronted the CIA Director Leon E. Panetta with some highly classified and irrefutable evidence. Panetta was startled when Director-General ISI placed the facts before him in Islamabad on November 20, 2009. The deliberate leaks after the meeting of the spy chiefs of the two countries spoke of the mind of the ISI. The ISI chief had earlier conveyed the facts about the interference of CIA in acts of terrorism in Pakistan to the Government, but realizing that either the message was not strongly conveyed to the Americans or it had no desired impact on them, finally put its foot down and expressed serious concerns over the CIA’s crude interference in the country’s internal matters.
The proof about instances of covert US support to some hardened militant outfits and the terrorist activities they carried out over the past were presented to Panetta. It was indeed a startling revelation for the top US spy and a bold maneuver of ISI. This move had surprised Panetta as the evidence presented was categorically proof that the CIA officials provide assistance to perpetrators of some of the most serious and deadly attacks on offices and key persons in Pakistan’s security services. He was told that in the view of the negative impact on Pakistan’s efforts in its war on terror, the CIA must stop such activities. The clarity with which the information was meant to be a loud message to Washington and CIA headquarters at Langley that if they wanted Pakistan’s cooperation in the war on terror; it must give up playing a double game. Pakistan has publicly expressed concerns over the freedom enjoyed by the Indian intelligence agency RAW is operating from Afghanistan. RAW is not only involved in acts of terrorism in FATA, but also in Balochistan. India cannot undertake such wide-scale activities in this region without the approval and backing of the CIA. The question is: how did India develop such a huge presence in Kabul?
Peace and conflict resolution in FATA is in the wider interests of the people living in the area as well as those in the entire country and the world because of having contiguous border with Afghanistan which has become center of gravity for global terrorism. The American CIA, Israeli MOSSAD, Indian RAW and Afghani NDS have a joint base in Afghanistan from where their covert operation are not only being initiated, but monitored and controlled as well. So peace and stability is essential for socio-economic development and prosperity of the people and for that purpose meddling in FATA by foreign spy agencies particularly CIA must cease. Peace and conflict resolution in FATA would not only pave the way for socio-economic development of the area, but wit ould also contribute to the prosperity of the entire Pakistan, as well as the world. It is mentionable that Pakistan with the help of its Armed Forces has succeeded in bringing peace in FATA, but it is a challenging task to prevent foreign agencies, especially the CIA to cease their interference. It is a responsibility of new incumbent CIA chief Gina Haspel to ensure peace in Afghanistan by ceasing interference in FATA and other parts of Pakistan, including Balochistan and Karachi.
*C Andrewis a freelance journalist covering Afghanistan and Pakistan.
baseless allegation on Pashtun Tahafuz movement PTM. PTM is indigenous voice of tribal people led by youth.
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Name*
Email*
Website

By Nijeesh N. and Deepak Kumar Nayak  On September 18, 2024, the Border Security Force (BSF) and the Punjab Police
This article is just plain wrong! The author may have a professorship, but his academic rigor is very poor. To…
there are legitimate reasons for USA to dissolve. the country is divided and bankrupt whoever wins the next election will…
THIS IS ONE OF THE WORSE PIECES EVER POSTED ON EURASIA REVIEW, MOST RACIST, ANTI-SEMITIC ANTI-UKRAINIAN RANT. WHY DID ER…
This is either the most self-deceiving rose-tinted spectacles view of Russia I have ever read, or a despicable set of…
It is wishful thinking to expect Gwadar Port to be a game changer for Pakistan. It has not materialized so…

Title: As ISIS targets disappear in Iraq and Syria, US military shifts focus back to Afghanistan | Fox News
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2024 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided byFactset. Powered and implemented byFactSet Digital Solutions.Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided byRefinitiv Lipper.
Lucas Tomlinson reports on the escalating military campaign in the region.
As the war against the Islamic State terror group winds down in Iraq and Syria, the U.S. military is increasingly turning its attention to Afghanistan.
In April 2017, American and allied jets dropped over 3,000 bombs on ISIS in Iraq and Syria.
But a year later, aircrafts dropped just 254 bombs, a sign of how much the war against ISIS has changed, according to anew strike reportreleased over the weekend from the U.S. Air Force.
Throughout April, the U.S. military dropped the second-highest amount of bombs in Afghanistan in six-and-a-half years, the Air Force report said. The 562 bombs dropped in Afghanistan last month were more than the combined March and April totals in Iraq and Syria.
The 12 A-10s were originally headed for an airbase in Turkey to fight ISIS, but with the air war largely over in Iraq and Syria, military brass decided the jets and more drones were needed at Kandahar Airfield in Afghanistan to ramp up the fight against the Taliban.
As of early May, ISIS holds only two small pockets of territory in eastern Syria, and none in Iraq.
U.S.-backed fighters from the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) have since returned to eastern Syria following Turkey’s incursion into northwest Syria, drawing Kurdish fighters from the fight against ISIS. The SDF recently announced it is once again fully committed to defeating ISIS.
Air Force A-10 jets and drones were recently called to thwart a battle against the Taliban in western Afghanistan, when the city of Farah was threatened.
U.S. airstrikes on May 15 in Afghanistan killed 28 Taliban fighters, according to the military.(Department of Defense)
U.S. Forces Afghanistan released avideoshowing 28 Taliban fighters getting mowed down by American drones in Farah Province, which borders Iran.
US SERVICE MEMBER KILLED IN AFGHANISTAN JUST WEEKS BEFORE DEPLOYMENT WAS TO END, OFFICIALS SAY
The Pentagon wouldn’t rule out Tehran’s influence.
“I don't think you can ever rule out how much Iran interferes throughout this region. Iran remains the most destabilizing factor in the Middle East. So no, I don't think you can ever rule out their mischief,” Pentagon spokesperson Dana W. White said at a press conference at the Pentagon Thursday.
White didn’t offer any specific details about the battle last week.
A U.S. Air Force F-16 Fighting Falcon aircraft takes off for a nighttime mission at Bagram Airfield, Afghanistan.(REUTERS/Josh Smith)
According to the latest numbers, the U.S. Air Force dropped two-times more bombs in Afghanistan than Iraq and Syria last month, as the Afghan spring offensive against the Taliban ramps up.
The U.S. Air Force said that Afghan jets recently helped destroy 29 Taliban narcotics labs as a way of cutting off a key revenue source for the Taliban.
AIR FORCE DEPLOYS A-10S TO AFGHANISTAN TO RAMP UP TALIBAN FIGHT
March saw more bombs dropped in Afghanistan than against ISIS in Iraq and Syria for the first time, but the war against the terror group in Iraq and Syria is not over quite yet.
Overall in 2018, the U.S. military has dropped more bombs in Iraq and Syria than Afghanistan, despite the recent uptick in strikes against the Taliban last month.
Defense secretary arrives in Kabul for an unannounced trip, says elements of the Taliban are clearly interested in talking to the Afghan government.
The April numbers in Syria included 19 missiles fired from Air Force B-1 bombers against one of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s chemical weapons research labs, after President Trump ordered a massive missile strike against the regime following an alleged chemical weapons attack killing dozens of civilians, including children.
The Air Force says it marked the first time the AGM-158 Joint Air to Surface Standoff Munition (JASSM) was used in combat.
Last year, U.S. and allied jets and drones fired more than 40,000 bombs and other munitions against ISIS in Iraq and Syria, compared to over 4,000 in Afghanistan against the Taliban and an ISIS off-shoot.
U.S. commanders recently called Afghanistan the “main effort” for American forces in the Central Command, which is responsible for American military operations in the Middle East and South Asia, including Afghanistan.
Fox News' Antisemitism Exposed" newsletter brings you stories on the rising anti-Jewish prejudice across the U.S. and the world."
By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox NewsPrivacy PolicyandTerms of Use, and
        agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can
        opt-out at any time.
Subscribed
You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2024 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided byFactset. Powered and implemented byFactSet Digital Solutions.Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided byRefinitiv Lipper.

Title: ISIS intruding into Afghanistan via Iran, claims Hekmatyar – The Frontier Post
Monitoring Desk
KABUL: The leader of Hezb-e-Islami Gulbudddin Hekmatyar claims that the foreign militants affiliated with the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) terrorist group are intruding into Afghanistan via Iran.
He made the remarks while speaking during a gathering in northern Parwan province of Afghanistan.
Hekmatyar said there are three types of militants currently operating under the shadow of the ISIS group, including the former Taliban militants who have pledged allegiance to the group.
According to Hekmatyar, ISIS militants from Iraq are also operating in Afghanistan but he emphasized that those militants cannot come to Afghanistan via air or Russia, except Iran.
The leader of Hezb-e-Islami also added that the third type of ISIS which is the most dangerous is the ISIS affiliates in uniform or the governmental ISIS loyalists.
He did not elaborate further in this regard but regarding his claims about Iran, Hekmatyar said he believes that Iran is attempting to use the ISIS in Afghanistan similar as it did in Iraq and Syria.
Hekmatyar says he has gained access to lots of information regarding the ISIS group which have been sharedwith the government.
According to Hekmatyar, ISIS is a game and a tool for the players for their communication as he claimed that the ISIS attacks increase in Afghanistan when tensions intensify between US and its and its rivals which means that the US rivals have direct involvement and hand behind ISIS growth in Afghanistan.




Copyright © 2024. All right reservedThe Frontier Post

Title: No title found


Title: MSN


Title: TFT-Story
Get Alerts
The Friday Times History
By Najam Sethi
The idea of a truly independent and liberal paper was born one night as I lay fuming under the stars on a hot and sticky August night in Kot Lakhpat Jail in Lahore in 1984.
The idea of a truly independent and liberal paper was born one night as I lay fuming under the stars on a hot and sticky August night in Kot Lakhpat Jail in Lahore in 1984. The country was writhing under martial law. Not a single newspaper editor had dared to write the truth about why General Zia ul Haq had used “preventive detention” laws to jail me. In fact they had all readily clutched at the officially sponsored lies about my case. One day, I silently raged, I would have my own paper and it would stand up to tyranny and expose the lies and fear that stalk our everyday lives.
General Zia ul Haq didn’t like me. I had published “From Jinnah to Zia” by Justice (retd) Mohammad Munir after every major publisher in the country had turned it down because it was overly critical of the dictator. After the author’s death a couple of years later, a khaki emissary advised me to quietly withdraw the book from sale. “You can ban it”, I had demurred. Then I published a book on US-Pak Relations whose cover was taken from a painting by the famous artist Mian Ijaz ul Hasan. It showed the US Aid emblem in which there are two clasped hands in friendship, except that Mian Ijaz had rendered one of the hands as a skeleton and squeezed a drop of blood out of it. The then US Ambassador to Pakistan protested to General Zia and the dye was cast. When Henry Kissinger complained about his book being pirated by a bookseller in Karachi, they went instead for me in Lahore and bunged me in as a “terrorist”. Amnesty International and BBC investigated the case and rubbished the authorities. But not a single Pakistani newspaper was prepared to expose the lie. In the event, no charges were formally pressed and I was released a month later. But by then an idea had begun to germinate whose time would come one day.
There is a passage in Emma Duncan’s wonderful book on Pakistan written in 1987 (Breaking the Curfew) that describes the path Jugnu Mohsin, my wife and TFT’s publisher, had to take during 1985-1988 for permission to publish TFT.
In order to start a magazine, an applicant has to have his form cleared and stamped by, in turn, the city magistrate, the local police, the city magistrate, the provincial press information department, the chief minister’s office, the provincial press information department, the federal press information department, the intelligence bureau, the federal press information department, the provincial press information department, the deputy commissioner and, once again, for luck, the provincial press information department.
In order to start a magazine, an applicant has to have his form cleared and stamped by, in turn, the city magistrate, the local police, the city magistrateSeveral decisions were critical and some moments were noteworthy. Jugnu had to be the listed as the “publisher” because I was too notorious an offender for comfort. Then we waited to apply pending the arrival of a City Magistrate who might be more sympathetic than curious. As luck would have it, Mr Sher Afghan, with antecedents in Okara from where Jugnu’s family hails, arrived on the scene in 1985 and helped push the application along. Then a friendly Director General Public Relations Punjab nudged the file to chief minister Nawaz Sharif’s office where it lay in cold storage for months until Jugnu’s cousin-in-law Javed Bokhari was appointed principal secretary to the CM and put up the file to Nawaz Sharif.
When Jugnu was called for an interview with Mr Sharif, she was pregnant with Mira and looking sufficiently benign. Nawaz was pleased to note that she was the niece of Syed Sajjad Haider, a stalwart of the Muslim League from Okara. But he was more than a little curious when she confirmed for him that she was Syeda Abida Hussain’s cousin. “Ah”, said Nawaz, his eyes narrowing, “is this going to be a political paper?”. “Of course not”, Jugnu smiled back, feigning innocence, “it’s going to be a social chit chat thing, you know, with lots of pictures of parties and weddings”.
“Good”, advised Nawaz, adding “I hope you won’t get me into trouble”. And with a flourish he signed the paper.
A month later, there was a knock on my office door and in walked a thick set, rather ominous looking Police Inspector with a file under his arm.
“Najam Aziz Sethi, s/o Abdul Aziz Sethi?”, he inquired in an officious manner. “Yes”, I mumbled.
“I’m from the IB”, he explained in Urdu, “Have you applied for permission to start a weekly paper?”
“No”, I said quickly, my heart skipping a beat. “But my wife wants to take out a social chit-chat thingie”, I volunteered eagerly.
His eyes twinkled. He smiled wryly and leaned over the table.
“Same difference, Sethi Sahib.”
Silence. I rubbed my hands under the table. He smiled, surveyed my office, pulled out a chair and made himself comfortable.
“Would you like some tea?” I asked.
“No sugar, please, I have diabetes”.
“Is there a problem with the permission?”, I asked innocently.
“There could be”, he pursed his lips mysteriously, “if you are involved”.
“But I’m not involved. You see…”.
“Come, come Sethi Sahib, we know all about you. You’re a trouble maker, aren’t you, always upsetting people and going to prison”, he said menacingly. “Your wife is fronting for you, isn’t she? There’s no way you can be cleared.”
“Hmmn”, I nodded glumly, not to affirm that I was a “trouble maker” but to confirm to myself that the game was over.
The tea arrived. He stirred it, helped himself to a handful of biscuits.
“How did my book sell?” he asked.
I was nonplussed and couldn’t place the Urdu book in question. It must have showed on my expression.
“Forgotten about it, haven’t you?” he chuckled. “I’ve seen a lot of unsold copies lying about in your shop”, he noted.
“Hmmn”.
“But if they haven’t sold out, why have you paid the supplier in full?”, he inquired. Then he proceeded to pull a book out of his file and placed it on the table in front of me.
“Oh, this, yes, yes, some fellow came to see me some months ago and said he was hard up and wanted me to sell this book. It didn’t sell at all but I gave him the cash anyway because he seemed genuinely in difficulty”, I explained.
“Do you remember who that fellow was?”, he grinned mysteriously.
Oh no, I thought, maybe there’s some subversive material in this book and they’re going to pin it on me.
“No, I don’t remember”, I said flatly.
“I see”, he said softly. Silence. A long silence. He slurped his tea with evident pleasure.
“This book, Sethi Sahib, is written by my deceased father”, he finally explained, “I was in civvies when I brought it to your shop three months ago after every bookseller in Lahore had refused to stock it, let alone sell it. I didn’t tell you I worked for the IB. But you not only took it, you gave me full payment in cash last month even though many copies remain unsold”.
“Really?”, I said dumbly, with vague recollections of someone imploring me to buy the book because he needed the money desperately.
“Really!”, he exclaimed emphatically. “You may be a trouble maker for some but for me you’re an angel”.
Relief. Smiles all round. More slurping of tea. He got up, shook my hand, and turned on his heel. At the door, he turned around, bowed, and said: “Good luck with your paper, sir, the IB is going to say that Jugnu Mohsin Sahiba’s father is in the clear and we shall omit to note whether she is married or not”.
Permission to publish TFT arrived in the post to Jugnu in 1987, three years after the application was submitted in 1985.
But General Zia was still around. And there was no sign of any press freedom. In fact, only months earlier, Aziz Siddiqui, the gentle editor of the Frontier Post in Peshawar, had been relieved under ISI pressure because he had published a small item about how Mrs Zia ul Haq had drawn on the public exchequer for medical treatment abroad. So we determined to lie low.
But that was easier said than done. Under the law, we were obliged to publish the paper within three months, failing which the permission would lapse. So Jugnu did the unprecedented thing of writing for permission to the DC to delay the publication of TFT for one year because of circumstances beyond her control. She explained that she had just had a baby and was too busy being a mother to be an editor or publisher. The usual “family” strings were pulled and permission was duly granted. We were in the throes of asking for another year’s extension when General Zia ul Haq perished in an air crash.
That night Jugnu and I sat up until the early hours of the morning planning the new paper. In the following weeks, we marshaled our meager resources and by December were ensconced in a small office on Turner Road, just behind the Lahore High Court. I went around Lahore and Karachi to the offices of the Big Wigs in the media asking for advice. One media baron bluntly said “If you’re got money to throw away, give it to charity”; another advised “It’s more difficult than a daily, that’s why we’ve not ventured into an English weekly”. But five months later, in May 1989, Jugnu and I launched TFT without a thought of how it would survive in the big bad world out there.
The Friday Times is Pakistan’s first independent weekly, founded in 1989.TFT offers a diverse range of perspectives on national and international issues.
Copyright ©2024 The Friday Times. All Rights Reserved.

Title: ISIS Claims Afghanistan Attacks : NPR
NPR's Lulu Garcia-Navarro talks with Seth Jones, director of the Transnational Threats Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies about ISIS and Afghanistan.
LULU GARCIA-NAVARRO, HOST:In the longest-running U.S. war, there were two deadly attacks in the last two weeks in Kabul, Afghanistan, both claimed by ISIS as the Afghan government attempts to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table. This latest attack - twin suicide bombings killed at least 25 people, including several journalists. The attacks were coordinated, so the second bomb went off as reporters and photographers arrived on the scene. We're joined now by Seth Jones. He's the director of the Transnational Threats Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies to talk about ISIS and Afghanistan. Welcome to the program.SETH JONES: It's great to be on. Thanks for having me.GARCIA-NAVARRO: We always hear about the Taliban in Afghanistan, but tell us who these ISIS fighters are. Are they former Taliban? Are they survivors from the campaigns in Iraq and Syria?JONES: The vast majority of this - of these ISIS members are actually former Pakistan Taliban. They're individuals that defected in 2014 and 2015, and they migrated over to the Islamic State or ISIS.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Let's dig down here. I'd like to talk about their tactics, first of all. I mean, they're targeting civilians and, specifically, it seems, journalists. This isn't new, necessarily. But is that something that they're known for?JONES: Unlike other more indigenous groups to Afghanistan - like the Taliban, which generally tries not to kill civilians, at least as much as possible - ISIS in Afghanistan has done exactly the opposite. Much like their brethren in Iraq and Syria, anybody is game.GARCIA-NAVARRO: How big a threat are they? Have they eclipsed the Taliban?JONES: Well, I think one has to put ISIS in Afghanistan into perspective. They are not a populist movement. They don't have a large support base either among Afghans or a large number of fighters. U.S. estimates are down in the 2-to-3,000 realm, which is an order of magnitude lower than the Taliban. But what they're willing to do is to conduct high-profile attacks against Afghan and international targets in cities like Jalalabad and Kabul. And that makes them certainly a threat, but it doesn't make them a threat to overthrow the Kabul regime.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Is there coordination between the Taliban, or are they rivals?JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
LULU GARCIA-NAVARRO, HOST:In the longest-running U.S. war, there were two deadly attacks in the last two weeks in Kabul, Afghanistan, both claimed by ISIS as the Afghan government attempts to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table. This latest attack - twin suicide bombings killed at least 25 people, including several journalists. The attacks were coordinated, so the second bomb went off as reporters and photographers arrived on the scene. We're joined now by Seth Jones. He's the director of the Transnational Threats Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies to talk about ISIS and Afghanistan. Welcome to the program.SETH JONES: It's great to be on. Thanks for having me.GARCIA-NAVARRO: We always hear about the Taliban in Afghanistan, but tell us who these ISIS fighters are. Are they former Taliban? Are they survivors from the campaigns in Iraq and Syria?JONES: The vast majority of this - of these ISIS members are actually former Pakistan Taliban. They're individuals that defected in 2014 and 2015, and they migrated over to the Islamic State or ISIS.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Let's dig down here. I'd like to talk about their tactics, first of all. I mean, they're targeting civilians and, specifically, it seems, journalists. This isn't new, necessarily. But is that something that they're known for?JONES: Unlike other more indigenous groups to Afghanistan - like the Taliban, which generally tries not to kill civilians, at least as much as possible - ISIS in Afghanistan has done exactly the opposite. Much like their brethren in Iraq and Syria, anybody is game.GARCIA-NAVARRO: How big a threat are they? Have they eclipsed the Taliban?JONES: Well, I think one has to put ISIS in Afghanistan into perspective. They are not a populist movement. They don't have a large support base either among Afghans or a large number of fighters. U.S. estimates are down in the 2-to-3,000 realm, which is an order of magnitude lower than the Taliban. But what they're willing to do is to conduct high-profile attacks against Afghan and international targets in cities like Jalalabad and Kabul. And that makes them certainly a threat, but it doesn't make them a threat to overthrow the Kabul regime.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Is there coordination between the Taliban, or are they rivals?JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
In the longest-running U.S. war, there were two deadly attacks in the last two weeks in Kabul, Afghanistan, both claimed by ISIS as the Afghan government attempts to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table. This latest attack - twin suicide bombings killed at least 25 people, including several journalists. The attacks were coordinated, so the second bomb went off as reporters and photographers arrived on the scene. We're joined now by Seth Jones. He's the director of the Transnational Threats Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies to talk about ISIS and Afghanistan. Welcome to the program.SETH JONES: It's great to be on. Thanks for having me.GARCIA-NAVARRO: We always hear about the Taliban in Afghanistan, but tell us who these ISIS fighters are. Are they former Taliban? Are they survivors from the campaigns in Iraq and Syria?JONES: The vast majority of this - of these ISIS members are actually former Pakistan Taliban. They're individuals that defected in 2014 and 2015, and they migrated over to the Islamic State or ISIS.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Let's dig down here. I'd like to talk about their tactics, first of all. I mean, they're targeting civilians and, specifically, it seems, journalists. This isn't new, necessarily. But is that something that they're known for?JONES: Unlike other more indigenous groups to Afghanistan - like the Taliban, which generally tries not to kill civilians, at least as much as possible - ISIS in Afghanistan has done exactly the opposite. Much like their brethren in Iraq and Syria, anybody is game.GARCIA-NAVARRO: How big a threat are they? Have they eclipsed the Taliban?JONES: Well, I think one has to put ISIS in Afghanistan into perspective. They are not a populist movement. They don't have a large support base either among Afghans or a large number of fighters. U.S. estimates are down in the 2-to-3,000 realm, which is an order of magnitude lower than the Taliban. But what they're willing to do is to conduct high-profile attacks against Afghan and international targets in cities like Jalalabad and Kabul. And that makes them certainly a threat, but it doesn't make them a threat to overthrow the Kabul regime.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Is there coordination between the Taliban, or are they rivals?JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
In the longest-running U.S. war, there were two deadly attacks in the last two weeks in Kabul, Afghanistan, both claimed by ISIS as the Afghan government attempts to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table. This latest attack - twin suicide bombings killed at least 25 people, including several journalists. The attacks were coordinated, so the second bomb went off as reporters and photographers arrived on the scene. We're joined now by Seth Jones. He's the director of the Transnational Threats Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies to talk about ISIS and Afghanistan. Welcome to the program.SETH JONES: It's great to be on. Thanks for having me.GARCIA-NAVARRO: We always hear about the Taliban in Afghanistan, but tell us who these ISIS fighters are. Are they former Taliban? Are they survivors from the campaigns in Iraq and Syria?JONES: The vast majority of this - of these ISIS members are actually former Pakistan Taliban. They're individuals that defected in 2014 and 2015, and they migrated over to the Islamic State or ISIS.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Let's dig down here. I'd like to talk about their tactics, first of all. I mean, they're targeting civilians and, specifically, it seems, journalists. This isn't new, necessarily. But is that something that they're known for?JONES: Unlike other more indigenous groups to Afghanistan - like the Taliban, which generally tries not to kill civilians, at least as much as possible - ISIS in Afghanistan has done exactly the opposite. Much like their brethren in Iraq and Syria, anybody is game.GARCIA-NAVARRO: How big a threat are they? Have they eclipsed the Taliban?JONES: Well, I think one has to put ISIS in Afghanistan into perspective. They are not a populist movement. They don't have a large support base either among Afghans or a large number of fighters. U.S. estimates are down in the 2-to-3,000 realm, which is an order of magnitude lower than the Taliban. But what they're willing to do is to conduct high-profile attacks against Afghan and international targets in cities like Jalalabad and Kabul. And that makes them certainly a threat, but it doesn't make them a threat to overthrow the Kabul regime.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Is there coordination between the Taliban, or are they rivals?JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
SETH JONES: It's great to be on. Thanks for having me.GARCIA-NAVARRO: We always hear about the Taliban in Afghanistan, but tell us who these ISIS fighters are. Are they former Taliban? Are they survivors from the campaigns in Iraq and Syria?JONES: The vast majority of this - of these ISIS members are actually former Pakistan Taliban. They're individuals that defected in 2014 and 2015, and they migrated over to the Islamic State or ISIS.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Let's dig down here. I'd like to talk about their tactics, first of all. I mean, they're targeting civilians and, specifically, it seems, journalists. This isn't new, necessarily. But is that something that they're known for?JONES: Unlike other more indigenous groups to Afghanistan - like the Taliban, which generally tries not to kill civilians, at least as much as possible - ISIS in Afghanistan has done exactly the opposite. Much like their brethren in Iraq and Syria, anybody is game.GARCIA-NAVARRO: How big a threat are they? Have they eclipsed the Taliban?JONES: Well, I think one has to put ISIS in Afghanistan into perspective. They are not a populist movement. They don't have a large support base either among Afghans or a large number of fighters. U.S. estimates are down in the 2-to-3,000 realm, which is an order of magnitude lower than the Taliban. But what they're willing to do is to conduct high-profile attacks against Afghan and international targets in cities like Jalalabad and Kabul. And that makes them certainly a threat, but it doesn't make them a threat to overthrow the Kabul regime.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Is there coordination between the Taliban, or are they rivals?JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
SETH JONES: It's great to be on. Thanks for having me.GARCIA-NAVARRO: We always hear about the Taliban in Afghanistan, but tell us who these ISIS fighters are. Are they former Taliban? Are they survivors from the campaigns in Iraq and Syria?JONES: The vast majority of this - of these ISIS members are actually former Pakistan Taliban. They're individuals that defected in 2014 and 2015, and they migrated over to the Islamic State or ISIS.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Let's dig down here. I'd like to talk about their tactics, first of all. I mean, they're targeting civilians and, specifically, it seems, journalists. This isn't new, necessarily. But is that something that they're known for?JONES: Unlike other more indigenous groups to Afghanistan - like the Taliban, which generally tries not to kill civilians, at least as much as possible - ISIS in Afghanistan has done exactly the opposite. Much like their brethren in Iraq and Syria, anybody is game.GARCIA-NAVARRO: How big a threat are they? Have they eclipsed the Taliban?JONES: Well, I think one has to put ISIS in Afghanistan into perspective. They are not a populist movement. They don't have a large support base either among Afghans or a large number of fighters. U.S. estimates are down in the 2-to-3,000 realm, which is an order of magnitude lower than the Taliban. But what they're willing to do is to conduct high-profile attacks against Afghan and international targets in cities like Jalalabad and Kabul. And that makes them certainly a threat, but it doesn't make them a threat to overthrow the Kabul regime.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Is there coordination between the Taliban, or are they rivals?JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
GARCIA-NAVARRO: We always hear about the Taliban in Afghanistan, but tell us who these ISIS fighters are. Are they former Taliban? Are they survivors from the campaigns in Iraq and Syria?JONES: The vast majority of this - of these ISIS members are actually former Pakistan Taliban. They're individuals that defected in 2014 and 2015, and they migrated over to the Islamic State or ISIS.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Let's dig down here. I'd like to talk about their tactics, first of all. I mean, they're targeting civilians and, specifically, it seems, journalists. This isn't new, necessarily. But is that something that they're known for?JONES: Unlike other more indigenous groups to Afghanistan - like the Taliban, which generally tries not to kill civilians, at least as much as possible - ISIS in Afghanistan has done exactly the opposite. Much like their brethren in Iraq and Syria, anybody is game.GARCIA-NAVARRO: How big a threat are they? Have they eclipsed the Taliban?JONES: Well, I think one has to put ISIS in Afghanistan into perspective. They are not a populist movement. They don't have a large support base either among Afghans or a large number of fighters. U.S. estimates are down in the 2-to-3,000 realm, which is an order of magnitude lower than the Taliban. But what they're willing to do is to conduct high-profile attacks against Afghan and international targets in cities like Jalalabad and Kabul. And that makes them certainly a threat, but it doesn't make them a threat to overthrow the Kabul regime.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Is there coordination between the Taliban, or are they rivals?JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
GARCIA-NAVARRO: We always hear about the Taliban in Afghanistan, but tell us who these ISIS fighters are. Are they former Taliban? Are they survivors from the campaigns in Iraq and Syria?JONES: The vast majority of this - of these ISIS members are actually former Pakistan Taliban. They're individuals that defected in 2014 and 2015, and they migrated over to the Islamic State or ISIS.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Let's dig down here. I'd like to talk about their tactics, first of all. I mean, they're targeting civilians and, specifically, it seems, journalists. This isn't new, necessarily. But is that something that they're known for?JONES: Unlike other more indigenous groups to Afghanistan - like the Taliban, which generally tries not to kill civilians, at least as much as possible - ISIS in Afghanistan has done exactly the opposite. Much like their brethren in Iraq and Syria, anybody is game.GARCIA-NAVARRO: How big a threat are they? Have they eclipsed the Taliban?JONES: Well, I think one has to put ISIS in Afghanistan into perspective. They are not a populist movement. They don't have a large support base either among Afghans or a large number of fighters. U.S. estimates are down in the 2-to-3,000 realm, which is an order of magnitude lower than the Taliban. But what they're willing to do is to conduct high-profile attacks against Afghan and international targets in cities like Jalalabad and Kabul. And that makes them certainly a threat, but it doesn't make them a threat to overthrow the Kabul regime.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Is there coordination between the Taliban, or are they rivals?JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
JONES: The vast majority of this - of these ISIS members are actually former Pakistan Taliban. They're individuals that defected in 2014 and 2015, and they migrated over to the Islamic State or ISIS.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Let's dig down here. I'd like to talk about their tactics, first of all. I mean, they're targeting civilians and, specifically, it seems, journalists. This isn't new, necessarily. But is that something that they're known for?JONES: Unlike other more indigenous groups to Afghanistan - like the Taliban, which generally tries not to kill civilians, at least as much as possible - ISIS in Afghanistan has done exactly the opposite. Much like their brethren in Iraq and Syria, anybody is game.GARCIA-NAVARRO: How big a threat are they? Have they eclipsed the Taliban?JONES: Well, I think one has to put ISIS in Afghanistan into perspective. They are not a populist movement. They don't have a large support base either among Afghans or a large number of fighters. U.S. estimates are down in the 2-to-3,000 realm, which is an order of magnitude lower than the Taliban. But what they're willing to do is to conduct high-profile attacks against Afghan and international targets in cities like Jalalabad and Kabul. And that makes them certainly a threat, but it doesn't make them a threat to overthrow the Kabul regime.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Is there coordination between the Taliban, or are they rivals?JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
JONES: The vast majority of this - of these ISIS members are actually former Pakistan Taliban. They're individuals that defected in 2014 and 2015, and they migrated over to the Islamic State or ISIS.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Let's dig down here. I'd like to talk about their tactics, first of all. I mean, they're targeting civilians and, specifically, it seems, journalists. This isn't new, necessarily. But is that something that they're known for?JONES: Unlike other more indigenous groups to Afghanistan - like the Taliban, which generally tries not to kill civilians, at least as much as possible - ISIS in Afghanistan has done exactly the opposite. Much like their brethren in Iraq and Syria, anybody is game.GARCIA-NAVARRO: How big a threat are they? Have they eclipsed the Taliban?JONES: Well, I think one has to put ISIS in Afghanistan into perspective. They are not a populist movement. They don't have a large support base either among Afghans or a large number of fighters. U.S. estimates are down in the 2-to-3,000 realm, which is an order of magnitude lower than the Taliban. But what they're willing to do is to conduct high-profile attacks against Afghan and international targets in cities like Jalalabad and Kabul. And that makes them certainly a threat, but it doesn't make them a threat to overthrow the Kabul regime.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Is there coordination between the Taliban, or are they rivals?JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
GARCIA-NAVARRO: Let's dig down here. I'd like to talk about their tactics, first of all. I mean, they're targeting civilians and, specifically, it seems, journalists. This isn't new, necessarily. But is that something that they're known for?JONES: Unlike other more indigenous groups to Afghanistan - like the Taliban, which generally tries not to kill civilians, at least as much as possible - ISIS in Afghanistan has done exactly the opposite. Much like their brethren in Iraq and Syria, anybody is game.GARCIA-NAVARRO: How big a threat are they? Have they eclipsed the Taliban?JONES: Well, I think one has to put ISIS in Afghanistan into perspective. They are not a populist movement. They don't have a large support base either among Afghans or a large number of fighters. U.S. estimates are down in the 2-to-3,000 realm, which is an order of magnitude lower than the Taliban. But what they're willing to do is to conduct high-profile attacks against Afghan and international targets in cities like Jalalabad and Kabul. And that makes them certainly a threat, but it doesn't make them a threat to overthrow the Kabul regime.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Is there coordination between the Taliban, or are they rivals?JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
GARCIA-NAVARRO: Let's dig down here. I'd like to talk about their tactics, first of all. I mean, they're targeting civilians and, specifically, it seems, journalists. This isn't new, necessarily. But is that something that they're known for?JONES: Unlike other more indigenous groups to Afghanistan - like the Taliban, which generally tries not to kill civilians, at least as much as possible - ISIS in Afghanistan has done exactly the opposite. Much like their brethren in Iraq and Syria, anybody is game.GARCIA-NAVARRO: How big a threat are they? Have they eclipsed the Taliban?JONES: Well, I think one has to put ISIS in Afghanistan into perspective. They are not a populist movement. They don't have a large support base either among Afghans or a large number of fighters. U.S. estimates are down in the 2-to-3,000 realm, which is an order of magnitude lower than the Taliban. But what they're willing to do is to conduct high-profile attacks against Afghan and international targets in cities like Jalalabad and Kabul. And that makes them certainly a threat, but it doesn't make them a threat to overthrow the Kabul regime.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Is there coordination between the Taliban, or are they rivals?JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
JONES: Unlike other more indigenous groups to Afghanistan - like the Taliban, which generally tries not to kill civilians, at least as much as possible - ISIS in Afghanistan has done exactly the opposite. Much like their brethren in Iraq and Syria, anybody is game.GARCIA-NAVARRO: How big a threat are they? Have they eclipsed the Taliban?JONES: Well, I think one has to put ISIS in Afghanistan into perspective. They are not a populist movement. They don't have a large support base either among Afghans or a large number of fighters. U.S. estimates are down in the 2-to-3,000 realm, which is an order of magnitude lower than the Taliban. But what they're willing to do is to conduct high-profile attacks against Afghan and international targets in cities like Jalalabad and Kabul. And that makes them certainly a threat, but it doesn't make them a threat to overthrow the Kabul regime.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Is there coordination between the Taliban, or are they rivals?JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
JONES: Unlike other more indigenous groups to Afghanistan - like the Taliban, which generally tries not to kill civilians, at least as much as possible - ISIS in Afghanistan has done exactly the opposite. Much like their brethren in Iraq and Syria, anybody is game.GARCIA-NAVARRO: How big a threat are they? Have they eclipsed the Taliban?JONES: Well, I think one has to put ISIS in Afghanistan into perspective. They are not a populist movement. They don't have a large support base either among Afghans or a large number of fighters. U.S. estimates are down in the 2-to-3,000 realm, which is an order of magnitude lower than the Taliban. But what they're willing to do is to conduct high-profile attacks against Afghan and international targets in cities like Jalalabad and Kabul. And that makes them certainly a threat, but it doesn't make them a threat to overthrow the Kabul regime.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Is there coordination between the Taliban, or are they rivals?JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
GARCIA-NAVARRO: How big a threat are they? Have they eclipsed the Taliban?JONES: Well, I think one has to put ISIS in Afghanistan into perspective. They are not a populist movement. They don't have a large support base either among Afghans or a large number of fighters. U.S. estimates are down in the 2-to-3,000 realm, which is an order of magnitude lower than the Taliban. But what they're willing to do is to conduct high-profile attacks against Afghan and international targets in cities like Jalalabad and Kabul. And that makes them certainly a threat, but it doesn't make them a threat to overthrow the Kabul regime.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Is there coordination between the Taliban, or are they rivals?JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
GARCIA-NAVARRO: How big a threat are they? Have they eclipsed the Taliban?JONES: Well, I think one has to put ISIS in Afghanistan into perspective. They are not a populist movement. They don't have a large support base either among Afghans or a large number of fighters. U.S. estimates are down in the 2-to-3,000 realm, which is an order of magnitude lower than the Taliban. But what they're willing to do is to conduct high-profile attacks against Afghan and international targets in cities like Jalalabad and Kabul. And that makes them certainly a threat, but it doesn't make them a threat to overthrow the Kabul regime.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Is there coordination between the Taliban, or are they rivals?JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
JONES: Well, I think one has to put ISIS in Afghanistan into perspective. They are not a populist movement. They don't have a large support base either among Afghans or a large number of fighters. U.S. estimates are down in the 2-to-3,000 realm, which is an order of magnitude lower than the Taliban. But what they're willing to do is to conduct high-profile attacks against Afghan and international targets in cities like Jalalabad and Kabul. And that makes them certainly a threat, but it doesn't make them a threat to overthrow the Kabul regime.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Is there coordination between the Taliban, or are they rivals?JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
JONES: Well, I think one has to put ISIS in Afghanistan into perspective. They are not a populist movement. They don't have a large support base either among Afghans or a large number of fighters. U.S. estimates are down in the 2-to-3,000 realm, which is an order of magnitude lower than the Taliban. But what they're willing to do is to conduct high-profile attacks against Afghan and international targets in cities like Jalalabad and Kabul. And that makes them certainly a threat, but it doesn't make them a threat to overthrow the Kabul regime.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Is there coordination between the Taliban, or are they rivals?JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
GARCIA-NAVARRO: Is there coordination between the Taliban, or are they rivals?JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
GARCIA-NAVARRO: Is there coordination between the Taliban, or are they rivals?JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
JONES: They're predominantly rivals. In fact, there was a branch in 2015 of ISIS in Afghanistan in Farah and Helmand provinces. And they were actually former Afghan Taliban members. And what the Taliban did to them is largely decimated them through a range of set-piece battles and then targeted assassinations. They compete with each other over ideology, over target sets, over recruits. So in general, they are in a very competitive battle right now.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
GARCIA-NAVARRO: Tell me a little bit about their different ideologies and aims, these two groups that are contesting each other.JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
JONES: If you read the propaganda, for example, of ISIS, what they'll say is they consider the Taliban regime to be one that only views creating an emirate within state boundaries, within Afghanistan. What ISIS really wants to do is create a Pan-Islamic caliphate not within specific boundaries but across a wide region. They also target Shia in ways that the Afghan Taliban don't.GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
GARCIA-NAVARRO: What does it say that ISIS is now in Afghanistan? I mean, what does it say about where we are now in this very long-running conflict?JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
JONES: Well, I think the fact that ISIS is still in Afghanistan tells us at least two things. One is that it does have staying power, even in places like Afghanistan. The U.S. and the Taliban have been attempting to target ISIS in Afghanistan for at least the last 2 1/2 years, and they have survived - and not just survived, but they've conducted a number of very high-profile attacks. It also says that any U.S. statements that ISIS, whether it's in Iraq or Syria, has been crushed - to use the words in the U.S. national security strategy - are way too early to say. I mean, the organization will almost certainly continue to operate in Iraq and Syria, as well as in countries like Afghanistan, Egypt, Nigeria and Libya. So this one is not over.GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
GARCIA-NAVARRO: Seth Jones of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, thank you very much.JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
JONES: Thank you very much.Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.

Copyright © 2018 NPR.  All rights reserved.  Visit our websiteterms of useandpermissionspages atwww.npr.orgfor further information.
NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by an NPR contractor. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR’s programming is the audio record.
Sponsor Message
Become an NPR sponsor

Title: Ramadan Rage: Islamic Terrorists Kill at Least 207, Wound 322 in First 10 Days
Jihadists have killed more than 200 people and injured an excess of 300 others so far during Ramadan, the holiest month for Muslims, according to a Breitbart News tally.
In the first ten days of the holy month, which started on May 17 for most Muslims across the world, the number of casualties reached at least 525 (203 deaths, 322 injuries).
Islamic terrorists killed about 20 people and injured another 30 each day on average since the beginning of Ramadan. At least 52 attacks have taken place so far during the holy month.
Many jihadistsbelieveit is exceptionally heroic and Allah especiallyrewards“martyrdom” during the sacred month.
Jihadist groups and other Islamists are known tourgetheir members and supporters to engage in jihad on Ramadan.
Nevertheless, the majority of Muslims solely abide byRamadan’sfasting tradition: abstaining from eating, drinking, smoking, having sex, and other physical needs each day, starting from before the break of dawn until sunset.
So far this year, the AfghanTalibanappears to be the deadliest group, followed by the Islamic State (ISIS/ISIL), which still poses a threat in the wake of the devastating loss it suffered in Iraq and Syria at the hands of the U.S.-led coalition and local forces.
ISIS was themost prolificterrorist group last year, when Ramadan casualties reached 3,343 (1639 deaths, 1704 injuries), marking the bloodiest Muslim holy month in recent history.
Breitbart News primarilygleansits tally from the Religion of Peace website in coordination with news and government reports.
Given that news outlets and governments fail to report many of the terrorist attacks in real time, the casualty total for the first ten days is subject to change.
Government officials may update some of the casualty totals as some of the injured victims succumb to their injuries, which may also prompt a change in the count after Breitbart News publishes this report.
All the terrorist attacks so far during Ramadan 2018, as documented by Breitbart News, include:
May 17 —Farah, Afghanistan— Talibankillsthree foreign engineers.
May 17 —Kashmir, India— Terrorists kidnap,slit throatof a 23-year-old man after Indian government declares first Ramadan ceasefire in 18 years.
May 17 —Borno, Nigeria— Suspected Boko Haram jihadists detonated a bomb at camp for people displaced by insurgency,killingfour and wounding 15.
May 17 —Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP), Pakistan—Jamaat-ul-Ahrar(JuA) terrorist group claims responsibility for a suicide bombing thatkillsone and injures 14.
May 17 —North Sinai, Egypt— Sunni hardliners bombed an area,killingone and injuring another.
May 17 —Uruzgan, Afghanistan— Talibankilltwo police officers.
May 18 —Raqqa, Syria— Leftover Islamic State (ISIS/ISIL) improvised explosive device (IED)killstwo civilians.
May 18 —Diyala, Iraq— Suspected ISIS terrorists are behind a bomb blast thatkillsone and wounds another.
May 18 —Kirkuk, Iraq— Suspected ISIS terroristskilla member of Kurdish Kakayi minority group with IED.
May 18 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Taliban attacked police security posts,killingfive police officers and wounding six others.
May 18 —Ghani, Afghanistan— Taliban attacked remote Ajristan district,killingnine security forces and wounding seven others.
May 18 —Nangarhar, Afghanistan—SuspectedIslamic State terrorists attacked “Ramadan Cup” cricket tournament in Jalalabad, the capital of the group’s stronghold,killingeight and wounding 55.
May 18 —Faryab, Afghanistan— Taliban rocketskillfour police officers, wound four others in Qaisar district.
May 19 —Chechnya, Russia— Islamic State claimedresponsibilityfor an attack at church thatkillstwo police officers and a worshipper and also wounds another police officer.
May 19 —Mogadishu, Somalia— Suspected al-Shabaab jihadists fit explosives on car,killingone local security troop.
May 19 —Nineveh, Iraq— Suspected Islamic State jihadistskillthe mayor of Hammam al-Alil region.
May 19 —Ghazni, Afghanistan— Talibankill14 security forces, wound ten others.
May 20 —Nineveh, Iraq— ISISkillstwo Shiite fighters in Sinjar town.
May 21 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Taliban terroristskillfive workers clearing landmines in Maiwand.
May 21 —Baghdad, Iraq— Terrorist car bombkillsone civilian.
May 21 —Ghazni, Afghanistan— Taliban jihadistskill14 security forces, wound 12 others in Dih Yak and Jaghatu districts.
May 21 —Sidi Bel Abbes, Algeria— Terroristskilltwo men inside a mosque, including themuezzin, who calls Muslims to prayer.
May 21 —Paktia, Afghanistan— Talibankillssix police officers, captures five others.
May 21 —Herat, Afghanistan— Talibankillstwo policemen, wounds seven others.
May 22 —Mogadishu, Somalia— Islamickillspoliceman in Bakara Market.
May 22 —Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso— Suspected terroristskillone police officer, wound five, including a civilian.
May 22 —Ajdabiya, Libya— ISIS suicide bomberkillstwo fighters loyal to militia leader Khalifa Haftar,woundstwo others
May 22 —Marib, Yemen— Iran-allied Houthis launch missile thatkillsfive civilians, wound 22 others.
May 22 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Minivan stuffed with explosives by suspected Taliban terroristskills16, wounds 38, including security forces and civilians.
May 22 —Palmyra, Syria— ISISkillsat least 30 Syrian troops and Iranian-backed militiamen,wounds14.
May 22 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISISexecutesan elderly man.
May 23 —Diyala, Iraq— ISIS attacked a family house in Jalawla region,killingthree, wounding three others.
May 23 —Kashmir, India— Suspected terrorists launch a grenade,injuringten civilians, including a woman and a 12-year-old boy.
May 23 —Mudug, Somalia— Suspected al-Shabaab jihadikillslawmaker in Galkayo.
May 23 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban terroristskillkidnapped mine-clearance worker.
May 23 —Baghdad, Iraq— Terrorist blows himself up in a crowded park in Shiite-majority Shoala,killingseven and wounding 16.
May 23 —Uruzgan, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban terroristskilleight Afghan security forces in Chora district, including military and police units.
May 23 —Basra, Iraq— Masked terrorists on a motorbikekillthree civilians.
May24 —Benghazi, Libya— Suspected jihadists carry out car bombing behind city’s largest hotel,killingseven, including a girl, and wounding 20.
May 24 —Diyala, Iraq— ISISkillstwo civilians in Jalawla region.
May 24 —Kirkuk, Iraq— Suspected terrorist mortar shell landed on a home,killinga 53-year-old woman.
May 24 —Balochistan, Pakistan— Lashkar-e-Jhangvi (LEJ) terroristskillone, injure another with a landmine in Kalat district.
May 24 —Maidan Wardak, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban roadside bomb rips through a vehicle,killingfour civilians, injuring two others.
May 25 —KP, Pakistan— Terrorists in Dera Ismail Khan regionkilla police officer, wound another.
May 25 —Kashmir, India— Suspected Lashkar-e-Toiba terroristslitsthroat of a 36-year-old man in Bandipora district.
May 25 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISISkillsthree policemen, wounds three others near Gharib village.
May 25 —Narathiwat, Thailand— Gunmen in country’s Muslim-majority regionkilltwo civilians at a tea shop in Ra-ngae district.
May 26 —Idlib, Syria— Terroristskillfive andwound43.
May 27 —Helmand, Afghanistan—Talibanterrorists carry out  Vehicle-borne Improvised Explosive Device (VBIED) near a military base in Nadali district,killingtwo local soldiers,woundingfour.
May 27 —Kashmir, India— Terroristskilla soldier and a civilian in Pulwama amid ceasefire.
Pleaselet us knowif you're having issues with commenting.




Copyright © 2024 Breitbart

Title: No title found


Title: Military Watchdog Chastises Pentagon Over Flawed Afghan Force Calculations - 17.05.2018, Sputnik International
SIGAR said in a quarterly report released on May 1, but with figures from January, that members of the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) and the Afghan National Police (ANP) had seen a combined personnel drop of 10.6 percent in the year prior,Sputnik News reportedat the time.
The 274-page quarterly report to covered a range of topics regarding the status of the US' reconstruction of Afghanistan, but the sharp decline in Afghan security personnel made most of the headlines. The US has been trying to bolster these Afghan forces since 2002, one year after invading the country, and continues to rely on them as an integral part of its long-term plan to retake the rest of the country from the Taliban.
"Building up the Afghan forces is a top priority for the US and our international allies, so it is worrisome to see Afghan force strength decreasing," SIGAR Special Inspector General John Sopko commented after the initial report.
But just two weeks after the report, on May 15,SIGAR released a "supplement"to it, blaming US Forces-Afghanistan (USFOR-A) for "erroneous reporting" that led to the number of ANSF and ANP forces being reported as 296,409 individuals, whereas the correct number is 313,728. SIGAR was informed of the error by the USFOR-A on May 10.
"USFOR-A said the error in their original figures had been mostly due to their failure to account for the transfer of most of the Afghan Border Force (ABF), previously an Afghan National Police (ANP) force element, from the ANP to the Afghan National Army (ANA)," the report says. "While the ABF personnel had already been dropped from the original ANP figure, they had not been added to the ANA figure. USFOR-A did not indicate what other factors contributed to their erroneous reporting."
Those accounted for 17,000, about half, of the missing forces, according to Lt. Col. Martin O'Donnell, the high-level press official for Resolute Support, the official name of the US mission in Afghanistan.
According to the new numbers, the Afghan National Army saw a 6,861-person increase in members, while the national police still saw a significant loss of 24,841 between January 2017 and January 2018.
The updated report also chastised USFOR-A for other reporting errors, such as sending SIGAR classified information but only afterward, informing them of its classification.
"In light of the problems described above, SIGAR respectfully requests the appropriate Congressional committees and the Secretary of Defense remind all DoD components of their statutory duty to provide accurate and timely data concerning the ANDSF for SIGAR's quarterly reports," Sopko said, concluding the report.

Title: Soviet Influenced Heavy Machine Guns in Afghan Service | thefirearmblog.com
Similar to many small arms in use by Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF), the diversity of Soviet patterned Heavy Machine Guns is quite high among the ANSF forces of today. Almost to a point where every derivative and variant produced in other countries is represented within the ANSF ranks from the Afghan Uniformed Police (AUP), Afghan National Army (ANA), the Nationa Directorate for Security (NDS), and the Afghan Border Police (ABP).
DShK

The most common platform in service is by far the old and reliable belt-fed, 12.7x108mm DShK HMG. Thousands are left over from the Soviet occupation as it was certainly issued to the fledgling Afghan Army at the time. However, there were numerous copies made of the DShK by different Warsaw Pact and non-Warsaw Pact countries. Albania, Pakistan, Iran, Romania, Yugoslavia, and Czechoslovakia all produced variants of the 1938 patterned design during the Cold War. Unfortunately apart from a few features here and there, identifying them for their origin from afar is very difficult unless one was able to actually see the markings.
Interestingly, this photo of Jamiat-e-Islami (Hekmatyar led) is an example of the Mujahideen DShK use during the war against the Soviets. HMGs were at a premium because of the Hind helicopter threat.
Although the DShK was popular in a ground mount utilizing a tripod during the Mujahideen years, this was mostly because of the style of fighting in the hills and the group not being able to use many vehicles. Today however, ANSF forces almost exclusively use the DShK in the vehicle-mounted role. Whether that be on M1123 HMMWVs, Ford Rangers pickup trucks, or stationary at guard posts (while mounted on top of a vehicle turret).
NSV and Kord Variants
Similar to the DShK origin identification predicament, there are two design patterns of the 12.7x108mm HMG that replaced the DShK in active Soviet service. The first is the NSV which was made in Kyrgyzstan. When the Soviet Union fell, a new design had to be configured because the Kyrgyz were no longer apart of Russia, and thus the Kord was born. A redesign was completed, this being the Kord, but for the casual observer, the two machine guns look very similar from a far distance. ARES has anexcellent article written on the exact differences.
However when it comes to spotting country derivatives, fortunately many have left identifying characteristics. Most prevalent appears to be the formerYugoslavian/Serbian Zastava M02 Coyotethat is actually available in .50 BMG along with 12.7x108mm. What sets this design apart from the rest is the black polymer stock with the gripping handle theat is also available on the companiesM93 bolt action, anti-materiel rifle.
Interestingly, many of the Zastava M02 HMGs are in use by the uniformed division of the Afghan intelligence service, or the National Directorate of Security (NDS) as is evidenced by numerous other Zastava small arms in use by the service such as the M70 series of Kalashnikov derivatives and M84 7.62x54R PKM clones.
This photograph was shared on aFacebook page called Kabul Security Nowand depicts NDS officers wrapping up failed suicide bombers.
NDS officers manning an M02 while in the back of a modified Ford Ranger. Note the RPG-7 mounted to the rear of the pickup with loaded anti-armor PG-7 rocket.
NDS Forces in position after a suicide bombing attack. Notice the same camouflage pattern on the Ford Ranger as is on the uniforms as the officers.
The next derivative in service is actually from the Belarusian state-owned arms company BSVT, alocally produced version of the NSV called the UTES. This is instantly recognizable by the very odd, tubular stock/folding shoulder brace. In addition, it has a wooden Kalashnikov patterned pistol grip.
These don’t number too much in the majority in Afghanistan and appear to be used as substitute standard for other designs due to their age. For the most part, it appears that the AUP are the sole users of the Belarussian derivative.
These photographs are of a Romanian advisor working with an AUP officer with the UTES. Notice the unique
This image is from the website of the Afghan Ministry of Interior Affairs and shows an Afghan Border Policeman at his post with a UTES.
This stock photograph fromAlamy appears to show an ABP officer shooting a UTES during training–
Chinese W-85
Last we have theChinese W-85 which is really a locally made version of the DShKbut it has enough identifying characteristics that we can differentiate between the two. The biggest being the design of the gas tube, front sight post and the compensator. The W-85 wasn’t actually adopted by the Chinese PLA in any large numbers but was instead mainly exported to foriegn customers.
These appear to be extremely rare in the country and are only mounted on armored personnel carriers such as this one stationed at a traffice circle for security.
Infantry Marine, based in the Midwest. Specifically interested in small arms history, development, and usage within the MENA region and Central Asia. To that end, I run Silah Report, a website dedicated to analyzing small arms history and news out of MENA and Central Asia.Please feel free to get in touch with me about something I can add to a post, an error I've made, or if you just want to talk guns. I can be reached at miles@tfb.tv
More byMiles
Wetcorps, noob, no love for WW1 French substitute standard handguns?:(
I remember a Afghan Tribesman in a copy of "National Geographics" posing with a British "Brown Bess" that was acquired by a Great Great Great Great Grandfather in 1842. Which was "Loving Cared For" for over 200-years, why should this be a Big Surprise for anyone...

Title: 9 Haqqani militants killed in Afghanistan - The Siasat Daily – Archive
Kabul: At least nine militants of the Haqqani militant group were killed following air strikes in Afghanistan’s Paktika, officials said on Monday.
“Afghan Special Operations Forces-related air strikes targeted militants of Haqqani terrorist network in Paktika province Sunday, killing nine Haqqani gunmen and destroying two motorcycles,” Xinhua news agency reported citing the Operational Coordination Group Afghanistan’s statement.
As a Taliban-linked group of militants, the Haqqani network was designated as a terrorist group by the US in 2012.
—IANS

Title: 9 Haqqani militants killed in Afghanistan - Daijiworld.com
Kabul, May 21 (IANS):At least nine militants of the Haqqani militant group were killed following air strikes in Afghanistan's Paktika, officials said on Monday.
"Afghan Special Operations Forces-related air strikes targeted militants of Haqqani terrorist network in Paktika province Sunday, killing nine Haqqani gunmen and destroying two motorcycles," Xinhua news agency reported citing the Operational Coordination Group Afghanistan's statement.
As a Taliban-linked group of militants, the Haqqani network was designated as a terrorist group by the US in 2012.
Disclaimer:
Please write your correct name and email address. Kindly do not post any personal, abusive, defamatory, infringing, obscene, indecent, discriminatory or unlawful or similar comments. Daijiworld.com will not be responsible for any defamatory message posted under this article.
Please note that sending false messages to insult, defame, intimidate, mislead or deceive people or to intentionally cause public disorder is punishable under law. It is obligatory on Daijiworld to provide the IP address and other details of senders of such comments, to the authority concerned upon request.
Hence, sending offensive comments using daijiworld will be purely at your own risk, and in no way will Daijiworld.com be held responsible.
Daijiworld Residency,Airport Road, Bondel Post,Mangalore - 575 008
                            Karnataka IndiaTelephone : +91-824-2982023.General Enquiry: office@daijiworld.com,News & Info : news@daijiworld.com
Kishoo Enterprises,3rd Floor, Mandavi Trade Centre,
                            Kadiyali, Udupi – 576 102Telephone : 0091-820-4295571E-mail : udupi@daijiworld.com
Daijiworld Middle East FZE,P.O.Box: 84772, Dubai, UAETel: 971-50-6597629Fax: 971-4-2639207Email: dubai@daijiworld.com
Copyright © 2001 - 2024. All Rights Reserved.Published by Daijiworld Media Pvt Ltd., Mangalore.
Powered byATC Online LLP

Title: 9 Haqqani militants killed in Afghanistan
(This story was auto-published from a syndicated feed. No part of the story has been edited byThe Quint.)
(At The Quint, we question everything. Play an active role in shaping our journalism bybecoming a membertoday.)
Loading Comments...

Title: Nine Haqqani terrorists killed in Afghanistan | IndiLeak — Latest India Breaking News, Real Hard News, Scam News, Politics, Entertainment News

Kabul:At least nine terrorists of the Haqqani terror group were killed following air strikes in Afghanistan’s Paktika, officials said on Monday.
Haqqani network was designated as a terrorist group by the US in 2012
“Afghan Special Operations Forces-related air strikes targeted terrorists of Haqqani terror network in Paktika province Sunday, killing nine Haqqani gunmen and destroying two motorcycles,” agencies reported citing the Operational Coordination Group Afghanistan’s statement.
As a Taliban-linked group of terrorists, the Haqqani network was designated as a terrorist group by the US in 2012.
(Required)
(Will not be published)
         (Required)
(Optional)

XHTML:You can use these html tags:<a href="" title=""> <abbr title=""> <acronym title=""> <b> <blockquote cite=""> <cite> <code> <del datetime=""> <em> <i> <q cite=""> <s> <strike> <strong>


Δ

Title: For Afghanistan, a Divided Taliban Poses an Obstacle to Peace
Sign Out
May 23, 2018 | 08:00 GMT
Fighters with Afghanistan's Taliban militia walk with their weapons in Ahmad Aba district on the outskirts of Gardez, the capital of Paktia province, on July 18, 2017. Civilian deaths in Afghanistan hit a new high in the first half of 2017 with 1,662 killed and more than 3,500 injured, the United Nations said July 17. The majority of the victims were killed by anti-government forces -- including the Taliban and in attacks claimed by the Islamic State, the report said.
(FARIDULLAH AHMADZAI/AFP/Getty Images)
It's already Asia's longest-running major insurgency, and it shows no signs of slowing. The Taliban are in the midst of a 16-year war against the NATO-backed government in Kabul as they seek to reconquer Afghanistan. As part of its annual spring offensive, besides staging attacks across the country, this year the movement has directed its energies toward the capture of the provincial capital of Farah province in an effort to replicate its brief takeover of Kunduz in 2015. The Taliban’s battlefield successes would seem to negate the need to pursue negotiations with the group's Western-backed adversaries in Kabul. But peace might face an even bigger hurdle: the Taliban's acute internal divisions....
Subscribe Now
Already have an account?

Title: US Congressional Committee Seeks Conditions on USD 350 Million Aid to Pakistan - News18
PTI
Last Updated:May 08, 2018, 16:38 IST
Image of Taliban fighters used for representational purpose. (File Photo)
Washington:A powerful Congressional committee has placed conditions on the release of USD 350 million financial aid to Pakistan for counter-terrorism operations to push Islamabad into taking action against the Haqqani network.

The Haqqani network has carried out a number of kidnappings and attacks against US interests in Afghanistan. The group linked to the Taliban is also blamed for several deadly attacks against Indian interests in Afghanistan including the 2008 bombing of the Indian mission in Kabul that killed 58 people.

Releasing the text of its version of the national defence authorisation (NDAA) bill, the House Armed Services Committee on Monday said that USD 350 million of the USD 700 million proposed financial assistance to Pakistan may not be released till the defence secretary certifies to Congress that Islamabad has taken actions against the Haqqani network militants.

According to the NDAA text running into more than 700 pages, it authorises USD 700 million in coalition support funds (CSF) to Pakistan. "Of that amount, not more than USD 350.0 million may be provided until the Secretary of Defence certified that Pakistan is taking demonstrable steps against the Haqqani network," it said.

The committee also authorised the president's budget request of USD 900 million for fiscal year 2019 for CSF payments.

In his new South Asia and Afghanistan policy in August, Trump had called for tougher measure against Pakistan if it fails to cooperate with the US in its fight against terrorism.

Since January, the Trump administration has suspended its security assistance to Pakistan alleging that Islamabad has not been taking satisfactory actions against terrorist safe havens inside the country.

The aid suspended has not be relocated yet but has been kept aside for Pakistan to be used later if and when it starts taking actions against terrorists.

Pakistan has repeatedly denied that there are any terrorist safe havens inside its territory. Both its officials in Islamabad and inside the United Nations in New York assert that there are no terrorist safe havens.

However, the top American leadership insists that there has been no change in Pakistani behaviour on this front that that it is fast running out of patience.

Title: Pakistan's Hazara plight and the army's role – DW – 05/02/2018
Pakistan's Shiite Hazara community has called off its protest over targeted killings after a meeting with the army chief. But activists say the Hazara persecution won't stop until the state changes its security policies.
A recent spate of targeted killings in the western city of Quetta had forced the Shiite Hazara community to organize protest rallies in the city. Some of the community's leaders had gone on a hunger strike to protest against years of Islamist violence against the minority community.
On Tuesday, Pakistan's army chief, General Qamar Javed Bajwa, held meetings with the Hazara community leaders and assured them that security forces would do their best to protect them.
"Our meeting with the army chief lasted for three hours. He paid heed to our demands and assured that the Hazara community would receive security in Quetta and other parts of Baluchistan province," Syed Dawood Agha, head of the Baluchistan Shia Conference organization, told DW's correspondent Abdul Ghani Kakar.
"After our successful meeting with the army chief, we decided to call off our protest," Agha added.
Read more:What is Pakistan's militancy issue all about?
The Hazara plight
The Hazaras belong to the minority Shiite Islamic sect and live predominantly in central Afghanistan, western and northern Pakistan and parts of Iran. They make up the third largest ethnic community in Afghanistan.
For the past few years, Sunni militant extremists in Pakistan and Afghanistan with links to al Qaeda, the so-called "Islamic State" (IS) and the Taliban have intensified their attacks on Hazaras, whom they do not recognize as Muslims.
Read more:
Pakistani Shiites under attack
Shias in Pakistan's Parachinar caught in the middle of proxy wars
In 2016, a suicide bomber targeted a Hazara rally in Kabul and killed at least 61 people and wounded over 200. The Hazara minority were demonstrating against inadequate power infrastructure in their home villages.
The Hazaras in Pakistan and Afghanistan have protested time and again against what they call a systematic persecution of the "peaceful community." The Hazaras in Pakistan demand that the government must act against militant groups in Baluchistan province who are responsible for attacks against the community.
"They are killing our people on a regular basis yet the government hasn't taken any action. We have always held peaceful protests," Mustafa Taimuri, a Hazara community leader, told DW.
Pakistani rights groups say that although the lives of Shiite Muslims are under threat all over Pakistan, those living in Baluchistan and the northwestern Gilgit-Baltistan region face a systematic onslaught by the Taliban and other militant groups. Some experts have gone so far as to call it a "sectarian cleansing" of Shiites.
Pakistani human rights groups accuse the country's security agencies of backing Sunni militants and failing to protect the minority groups of the country.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
Are assurances enough?
Some analysts trace the origins of sectarian violence in Pakistan to the Afghan War of the 1980s. They say that Pakistan's former military dictator Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq made it a state policy to fund and arm extremist Sunni groups in the 1980s, using these organizations against the Shiites to kill Iran's support in Pakistan and to increase Pakistan's influence in Afghanistan.
Local and Western analysts also accuse the country's powerful army of using some extremist groups as proxies in Afghanistan and India-administered Kashmir, a charge the military denies. US President Donald Trump has reduced military aid for Pakistan in reaction to alleged safe havens for militants on Pakistani soil.
Read more:
Trump is good for Afghanistan, tough on Pakistan, say experts
Pakistan avoids global terror watchlist – for now
"The assurance to Hazaras from the real power-wielder in Pakistan — the army — is just an attempt to pacify the community. The military is aware that if they handle the situation with an iron fist, the Hazaras will follow the path of the new Pashtun movement in the northwest [which blamed both the army and militants for violence in their region]," Baseer Naveed, a Hong Kong-based Pakistani human rights activist, told DW.
Read more:Pashtuns rise up against war, Taliban and Pakistani military
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
"The army fears that the Hazara movement could spread to other part of the country and other communities in western and northwestern restive areas could rise against the authorities," Naveed, who works for the International Human Rights Council, said. "The slogan 'yeh jo dehshatgardi hay, is kay peechay wardi hay' (the army is behind terrorism) has become very popular in these areas," he pointed out.
Naveed added that civil society groups should support local movements to raise awareness about the persecution of minorities and the rising Islamist threat.
But Ali Chishti, a security and political analyst based in Karachi, argues that the Pakistani state has failed to protect not just the Shiites but most of its citizens. "Pakistan is headed in a completely wrong direction and faces an existential threat due to its policies," Chishti told DW.
Despite the criticism against the army, Agha Raza, a provincial minister in Baluchistan, insists that the Hazara community is not against the military.
"People stand with the army and won't let those who are criticizing the Pakistani military to pursue their own interests, hijack the movement," Agha told media.
Read more:
Examining Pakistan's growing sectarian violence
Is Pakistan clamping down on liberal academics?
Additional reporting by Abdul Ghani Kakar, DW's correspondent in Quetta, Pakistan.
