Title: What’s Behind Saudi Arabia’s Turn Away From the Taliban? – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
Saudi Arabia’s increasingly anti-Taliban stance helps Riyadh consolidate its vital regional alliances and isolate Qatar.
On August 7, 2017, Saudi Arabia’s most senior diplomat in Afghanistan, Mishari al-Harbi, described the Taliban as“armed terrorists”in an interview with Afghan reporters. Even though the Taliban’s alliance with Iran has created tensions between Riyadh and the Taliban in recent years, al-Harbi’s hostile rhetoric towards the Taliban surprised many observers, as Saudi Arabia recognized the Taliban as Afghanistan’s legitimate government during the 1990s and expressed interest in hosting a Taliban diplomatic base in 2011.
Saudi Arabia’s increasingly hostile rhetoric towards the Taliban can be explained by two main factors. First, the Saudi government’s rhetoric aims to deter private donors in Saudi Arabia from providing financial assistance to the Taliban. Second, Saudi Arabia’s de-legitimization of the Taliban as a political entity seeks to undercut the effectiveness of Qatar’s mediation efforts between the Taliban and Kabul.
Saudi Arabia’s Efforts to Deter Private Donations to the Taliban
Even though Saudi Arabia renounced its diplomatic support for the Taliban in the days leading up to the 2001 war in Afghanistan, the Saudi monarchy continued to allow private donors residing in the kingdom to financially assist the Taliban. Saudi Arabia’ssupport for the Talibanhas consisted of financial donations from prominent Wahhabi businessmen and political elites, and Riyadh’s facilitation of the Taliban’s efforts to extract tax revenues from Pashtun guest workers residing in the kingdom.
Saudi Arabia’s financial support for the Taliban has also assisted Pakistan’s efforts to strengthen the Taliban’s military capabilities, and helped the Taliban act as a check against rising Iranian influence in Afghanistan. As Johns Hopkins University Professor Vali Nasr told theNew York Timesin December 2016, Saudi Arabia’s financial assistance to the Taliban has helped Riyadh revive the prominent diplomatic role in Afghanistan that it assumed during the 1980s, and secure a long-term ideological footprint in Afghanistan through the proliferation of Wahhabi madrasas across the war-torn country.
Even though Saudi Arabia’s aspirations for influence in Afghanistan remain intact, Riyadh’s recent denunciations of the Taliban suggest that it has lost confidence in the Taliban’s ability to advance Saudi interests in Afghanistan. Iran’sprovisions of weaponryto Taliban insurgents and covert encouragement of the Taliban’s efforts to destabilize Afghanistan, have caused Saudi policymakers to conclude that the Taliban is no longer a reliable partner for Riyadh to cooperate with in Afghanistan.
To demonstrate its dissatisfaction with the Taliban’s conduct, the Saudi monarchy has criticized the Taliban’s links to terrorist groups and condemned Iran for its growing alliance with the Taliban. Riyadh’s anti-Taliban rhetoric is also aimed at deterring private Wahhabi donors in Saudi Arabia from providing financial assistance to the Taliban and encouraging them to shift their resources towards strengthening Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s hold on power.
To encourage Saudi investors to provide support for the Afghan government, Saudi Arabia’s King Salman and Ghani held abilateral meetingin Riyadh on May 22. During that meeting, Ghani praised Saudi Arabia as a potentially effective mediator between Kabul and armed groups seeking instability in Afghanistan. Both leaders also agreed to ease visa restrictions that complicate travel between the two countries, and Saudi Arabia vowed to cut off funding to Afghan political movements with terrorism links.
King Salman’s actions demonstrate Riyadh’s unequivocal commitment to upholding Ghani’s legitimacy as Afghan president. This stated commitment could convince Wahhabi business elites to suspend their financial links with the Taliban, increasing the Taliban’s dependence on Iranian military assistance.
Saudi Arabia’s Efforts to Undercut Qatar’s Influence in Afghanistan
In addition to punishing the Taliban for its covert partnership with Iran, Saudi Arabia’s recent condemnations of the Taliban seek to undercut the effectiveness of Qatari diplomatic initiatives in Afghanistan. Since 2013, the Qatari government has mediated talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban, with the intention of promoting a political solution to Afghanistan’s ongoing conflict.
As Doha’s involvement in Afghanistan has increased Qatar’s international stature as a diplomatic arbiter, Saudi Arabia has sought to sully Qatar’s international reputation by insinuating that Qatar’s Taliban links are a form ofstate-sponsored terrorism. On August 7, al-Harbi told reporters that there was compelling evidence that Qatar actively supports the Taliban’s destabilizing activity in Afghanistan. Saudi Arabia has also pressured its leading South Asian ally, Pakistan, to distance itself from Qatar by scaling back its military support for the Taliban.
Even though the credibility of Saudi Arabia’s condemnations of Qatar’s Taliban links has been undercut by former mujahideen fighterAbdullah Anas’s statementthat Riyadh had resolutely supported Qatar’s diplomatic overtures towards the Taliban before 2013, Saudi Arabia’s aggressive anti-Taliban rhetoric aims to highlight a distinction between its policies and Doha’s. As the Taliban’s relationships with Egypt, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Turkey have become increasingly strained in recent months, Saudi Arabia’s resolute anti-Taliban stance helps Riyadh consolidate its vital regional alliances and isolate Qatar’s position on Afghanistan from the Middle East consensus.
In addition, Saudi Arabia’s anti-Taliban rhetoric could help convince the United States to pressure Qatar over its Taliban links. As Trump’s Afghanistan strategy explicitly condemns state sponsorship of terrorism, Saudi Arabia’s anti-Taliban stance is aimed at convincing Washington that it is the United States’ most trustworthy partner in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC). As the United States signed a memorandum of understanding with Qataron counter-terrorismin July, Saudi Arabia hopes that its aggressive condemnations of Qatar’s Taliban links will convince the United States to scale back its security partnership with Doha to maintain positive relations with Riyadh.
Even though the Saudi monarchy’s ability to enforce its anti-Taliban policy remains unclear, Saudi Arabia’s hostile rhetoric towards the Taliban should be viewed as a direct retaliation for the Sunni extremist organization’s cooperation with Iran and Qatar. If Saudi Arabia’s anti-Taliban rhetoric is converted into concrete action, Saudi Arabia could strengthen its relationship with Kabul, undercut Qatar’s diplomatic influence in Afghanistan, and highlight Riyadh’s reliability as a counterterrorism partner to U.S. policymakers. If this scenario comes to fruition, Saudi Arabia will entrench its position as a major stakeholder in Afghanistan for years to come.
Samuel Ramani is a DPhil candidate in International Relations at St. Antony’s College, University of Oxford. He is also a journalist who contributes regularly to the Washington Post and Huffington Post. He can be followed onTwitter at samramani2and onFacebook at Samuel Ramani.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: What’s Behind Saudi Arabia’s Turn Away From the Taliban? – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
Saudi Arabia’s increasingly anti-Taliban stance helps Riyadh consolidate its vital regional alliances and isolate Qatar.
On August 7, 2017, Saudi Arabia’s most senior diplomat in Afghanistan, Mishari al-Harbi, described the Taliban as“armed terrorists”in an interview with Afghan reporters. Even though the Taliban’s alliance with Iran has created tensions between Riyadh and the Taliban in recent years, al-Harbi’s hostile rhetoric towards the Taliban surprised many observers, as Saudi Arabia recognized the Taliban as Afghanistan’s legitimate government during the 1990s and expressed interest in hosting a Taliban diplomatic base in 2011.
Saudi Arabia’s increasingly hostile rhetoric towards the Taliban can be explained by two main factors. First, the Saudi government’s rhetoric aims to deter private donors in Saudi Arabia from providing financial assistance to the Taliban. Second, Saudi Arabia’s de-legitimization of the Taliban as a political entity seeks to undercut the effectiveness of Qatar’s mediation efforts between the Taliban and Kabul.
Saudi Arabia’s Efforts to Deter Private Donations to the Taliban
Even though Saudi Arabia renounced its diplomatic support for the Taliban in the days leading up to the 2001 war in Afghanistan, the Saudi monarchy continued to allow private donors residing in the kingdom to financially assist the Taliban. Saudi Arabia’ssupport for the Talibanhas consisted of financial donations from prominent Wahhabi businessmen and political elites, and Riyadh’s facilitation of the Taliban’s efforts to extract tax revenues from Pashtun guest workers residing in the kingdom.
Saudi Arabia’s financial support for the Taliban has also assisted Pakistan’s efforts to strengthen the Taliban’s military capabilities, and helped the Taliban act as a check against rising Iranian influence in Afghanistan. As Johns Hopkins University Professor Vali Nasr told theNew York Timesin December 2016, Saudi Arabia’s financial assistance to the Taliban has helped Riyadh revive the prominent diplomatic role in Afghanistan that it assumed during the 1980s, and secure a long-term ideological footprint in Afghanistan through the proliferation of Wahhabi madrasas across the war-torn country.
Even though Saudi Arabia’s aspirations for influence in Afghanistan remain intact, Riyadh’s recent denunciations of the Taliban suggest that it has lost confidence in the Taliban’s ability to advance Saudi interests in Afghanistan. Iran’sprovisions of weaponryto Taliban insurgents and covert encouragement of the Taliban’s efforts to destabilize Afghanistan, have caused Saudi policymakers to conclude that the Taliban is no longer a reliable partner for Riyadh to cooperate with in Afghanistan.
To demonstrate its dissatisfaction with the Taliban’s conduct, the Saudi monarchy has criticized the Taliban’s links to terrorist groups and condemned Iran for its growing alliance with the Taliban. Riyadh’s anti-Taliban rhetoric is also aimed at deterring private Wahhabi donors in Saudi Arabia from providing financial assistance to the Taliban and encouraging them to shift their resources towards strengthening Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s hold on power.
To encourage Saudi investors to provide support for the Afghan government, Saudi Arabia’s King Salman and Ghani held abilateral meetingin Riyadh on May 22. During that meeting, Ghani praised Saudi Arabia as a potentially effective mediator between Kabul and armed groups seeking instability in Afghanistan. Both leaders also agreed to ease visa restrictions that complicate travel between the two countries, and Saudi Arabia vowed to cut off funding to Afghan political movements with terrorism links.
King Salman’s actions demonstrate Riyadh’s unequivocal commitment to upholding Ghani’s legitimacy as Afghan president. This stated commitment could convince Wahhabi business elites to suspend their financial links with the Taliban, increasing the Taliban’s dependence on Iranian military assistance.
Saudi Arabia’s Efforts to Undercut Qatar’s Influence in Afghanistan
In addition to punishing the Taliban for its covert partnership with Iran, Saudi Arabia’s recent condemnations of the Taliban seek to undercut the effectiveness of Qatari diplomatic initiatives in Afghanistan. Since 2013, the Qatari government has mediated talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban, with the intention of promoting a political solution to Afghanistan’s ongoing conflict.
As Doha’s involvement in Afghanistan has increased Qatar’s international stature as a diplomatic arbiter, Saudi Arabia has sought to sully Qatar’s international reputation by insinuating that Qatar’s Taliban links are a form ofstate-sponsored terrorism. On August 7, al-Harbi told reporters that there was compelling evidence that Qatar actively supports the Taliban’s destabilizing activity in Afghanistan. Saudi Arabia has also pressured its leading South Asian ally, Pakistan, to distance itself from Qatar by scaling back its military support for the Taliban.
Even though the credibility of Saudi Arabia’s condemnations of Qatar’s Taliban links has been undercut by former mujahideen fighterAbdullah Anas’s statementthat Riyadh had resolutely supported Qatar’s diplomatic overtures towards the Taliban before 2013, Saudi Arabia’s aggressive anti-Taliban rhetoric aims to highlight a distinction between its policies and Doha’s. As the Taliban’s relationships with Egypt, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Turkey have become increasingly strained in recent months, Saudi Arabia’s resolute anti-Taliban stance helps Riyadh consolidate its vital regional alliances and isolate Qatar’s position on Afghanistan from the Middle East consensus.
In addition, Saudi Arabia’s anti-Taliban rhetoric could help convince the United States to pressure Qatar over its Taliban links. As Trump’s Afghanistan strategy explicitly condemns state sponsorship of terrorism, Saudi Arabia’s anti-Taliban stance is aimed at convincing Washington that it is the United States’ most trustworthy partner in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC). As the United States signed a memorandum of understanding with Qataron counter-terrorismin July, Saudi Arabia hopes that its aggressive condemnations of Qatar’s Taliban links will convince the United States to scale back its security partnership with Doha to maintain positive relations with Riyadh.
Even though the Saudi monarchy’s ability to enforce its anti-Taliban policy remains unclear, Saudi Arabia’s hostile rhetoric towards the Taliban should be viewed as a direct retaliation for the Sunni extremist organization’s cooperation with Iran and Qatar. If Saudi Arabia’s anti-Taliban rhetoric is converted into concrete action, Saudi Arabia could strengthen its relationship with Kabul, undercut Qatar’s diplomatic influence in Afghanistan, and highlight Riyadh’s reliability as a counterterrorism partner to U.S. policymakers. If this scenario comes to fruition, Saudi Arabia will entrench its position as a major stakeholder in Afghanistan for years to come.
Samuel Ramani is a DPhil candidate in International Relations at St. Antony’s College, University of Oxford. He is also a journalist who contributes regularly to the Washington Post and Huffington Post. He can be followed onTwitter at samramani2and onFacebook at Samuel Ramani.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: Why US seeks brokering Taliban-Afghan Govt. peace talks? | The Iran Project


Title: No title found


Title: Romanian soldier killed in Taliban attack in Afghanistan: NATO | India.com
click this icon for latest updates

Published: September 16, 2017 11:48 AM IST
ByPTI Feeds
Kabul, Sep 16 (AFP) A Romanian soldier was killed in a Taliban claimed suicide attack on a NATO convoy in southern Afghanistan that also wounded two others, officials said today.
The assailant drove a vehicle packed with explosives into the foreign patrol as they drove through Daman district in Kandahar province yesterday.All three casualties were Romanian soldiers, NATO’s Resolute Support train and assist mission said in a statement.General John Nicholson, who heads up US and NATO forces in Afghanistan, condemned the attack and said it was further evidence the Taliban “are not interested in peace”.“This loss only continues to strengthen our resolve and support to the Afghan government and its citizens as we work toward a secure and stable Afghanistan,” Nicholson said.In a WhatsApp message sent to journalists yesterday Taliban spokesman Qari Yousuf Ahmadi said “seven invading forces” were killed in the attack. The militants routinely exaggerate battlefield claims.The Taliban’s latest assault follows the group’s pledge to turn Afghanistan into a “graveyard” for foreign forces after US President Donald Trump’s announcement last month to keep American boots on the ground indefinitely.Earlier this month two Taliban suicide bombers launched separate attacks around Bagram Airfield, America’s largest base in the country, that wounded several US soldiers and civilians. (AFP)This is published unedited from the PTI feed.Also Read:Who is Aimee Harris, the Florida woman jailed for stealing Biden's daughter Ashley Biden's diary with 'highly personal entries' and family photosWho is Anura Kumara Dissanayake? Sri Lanka's New President and His Stance on India | Sri Lanka PollKamala Harris and Oprah Winfrey Unite for America: 5 Key Highlights | US ElectionsFor breaking news and live news updates, like us onFacebookor follow us onTwitterandInstagram. Read more on LatestNewsonIndia.com.TopicsAfghan governmentAfghanistanamericaDamanDonald TrumpPresidentMore Stories


All three casualties were Romanian soldiers, NATO’s Resolute Support train and assist mission said in a statement.
General John Nicholson, who heads up US and NATO forces in Afghanistan, condemned the attack and said it was further evidence the Taliban “are not interested in peace”.

“This loss only continues to strengthen our resolve and support to the Afghan government and its citizens as we work toward a secure and stable Afghanistan,” Nicholson said.
In a WhatsApp message sent to journalists yesterday Taliban spokesman Qari Yousuf Ahmadi said “seven invading forces” were killed in the attack. The militants routinely exaggerate battlefield claims.
The Taliban’s latest assault follows the group’s pledge to turn Afghanistan into a “graveyard” for foreign forces after US President Donald Trump’s announcement last month to keep American boots on the ground indefinitely.
Earlier this month two Taliban suicide bombers launched separate attacks around Bagram Airfield, America’s largest base in the country, that wounded several US soldiers and civilians. (AFP)
This is published unedited from the PTI feed.
For breaking news and live news updates, like us onFacebookor follow us onTwitterandInstagram. Read more on LatestNewsonIndia.com.
Shillong Teer Lottery Results- September 24, 2024- 1st and 2nd Round Lucky winning Number OUT - Check Here
IIFL Finance to offer Gold loan at 1% interest rate pm during Gold Loan Mela held between....
Nagaland State Sambad Lottery Result 23.09.2024 For 1PM, 6PM, 8PM Live: Check Dear DWARKA MORNING Lucky Draw Result 1 Crore First Prize Complete Winners List
Kerala Lottery Result Today 24-09-2024(DECLARED): Sthree Sakthi SS-434 Ticket Number Winner List, Agent Name
iPhone 16 series sale: Apple announces huge price cuts for iPhone 15, iPhone 14 models, new discounted prices are ...
Who is Aimee Harris, the Florida woman jailed for stealing Biden's daughter Ashley Biden's diary with 'highly personal entries' and family photos
Who is Anura Kumara Dissanayake? Sri Lanka's New President and His Stance on India | Sri Lanka Poll
Anura Kumara Dissanayake is new Sri Lanka president, declared winner after 'unprecedented' second round of counting
Rashid Khan reveals he battled hamstring injury to witness Afghanistan script history against SA
Rashid Khan sets THIS unique record, 1st time in 53 years...
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing effortsCookies Policy.

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:09Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: The case for continued U.S. involvement in Afghanistan
Commentary

September 5, 2017
Foreign Policy
Center for Middle East Policy
In a two-part series, Dan Byman lays out his cases for and against U.S. intervention in Afghanistan. This piece originally appeared onLawfare. Read part 2here.
The U.S. war in Afghanistan, which enters its 16th year as the longest war in American history, has no end in sight, and Americans increasingly question its value. As a presidential candidate, Donald J. Trump questioned the continued U.S. involvement in Afghanistan,tweeting“Let’s get out!” because of the “waste of blood and treasure.” As president, however, Trump is following the path of Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama: In August, he approved the deployment of several thousand more troops into Afghanistan, where 8,500 are already stationed. The United States is likely to stay involved in Afghanistan for the remainder of the Trump presidency and perhaps far longer.
Asa pre-9/11 advocate of confronting the Taliban, I am loath to see it return to power and worry about the humanitarian and national security costs of a U.S. failure in Afghanistan. Yet, many Americans feel a sense of futility when they consider Afghanistan, best captured by the painful headlines of two satirical magazines: Duffleblog’s“‘We’re Making Real Progress,’ Say Last 17 Commanders in Afghanistan” and The Onion’s“Soldier Excited to Take Over Father’s Old Afghanistan Patrol Route.”
In the hopes of clarifying my own thinking along with that of any readers (and yes, I’m talking to you@brookingsbunny), in a two-part series to follow, I lay out my cases for andagainstintervention.
Fear of terrorism constitutes the primary reason to remain in Afghanistan. Because the Taliban hosted al-Qaida in the years before the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, many assume that the Taliban would host al-Qaida and other terrorist organizations again should it gain power in all or part the country. President Trump, in his Aug. 21 speech announcing the deployment of more troops,warned, “A hasty withdrawal would create a vacuum for terrorists, including ISIS and Al Qaida, would instantly fill just as happened before September 11.” Although the Afghan government controls only part of the country, its presence impedes the Taliban’s ability to host the large-scale training apparatus that allowed al-Qaida and other groups to flourish before 9/11. Government forces can raid Taliban-controlled areas and disrupt camps, and the United States can fly drones or otherwise strike any facilities with relative ease.
The Taliban may have learned its lesson regarding support for international terrorism, but the United States cannot count on that. In good news, the Afghan Taliban have not supported a mass-casualty terrorist attack against the West in the post-9/11 era. The militants have not done so even in the face of the ferocious warfare waged against them, suggesting their theater of operations is local and regional, not international. In addition, the Talibanhesitatedto embrace al-Qaida’s global terrorism agenda even before 9/11, though it stumbled into a tight embrace with the group. However, the Defense Departmentcountsas many as 20 active terrorist groups in Afghanistan. Moreover,the rise of the Haqqani network within the Taliban—Sirajuddin Haqqani has become the Taliban’s No. 2—is troubling given the network’s ties to international terrorist groups. In addition, theIslamic State in Khorasan Province(ISKP) has emerged in recent years and has executed brutal terrorist attacks. ISKP rivals the Taliban, and it might conduct attacks if it had more freedom to operate in Afghanistan even if the Taliban refrained from supporting terrorism.
Setting aside the issue of Taliban or ISKP control, the United States alsousesAfghanistan as a base for drone attacks in Pakistan. Drones are the tip of the U.S. spear against al-Qaida remnants remaining in the region. A number of U.S. enemies operate from tribal parts of Pakistan that are within drone and commando range from Afghanistan. Thus, a continued fight against al-Qaida remnants in Pakistan depends in part on access to Afghanistan. In addition, much of the drone program depends on human assets for reporting—it cannot be done entirely “over the horizon,” with no allies on the ground. Finally, a U.S. departure would embolden Pakistan’s generals, convincing them (correctly) that covertly supporting militants against their enemies is a winning strategy and one that they should continue to employ against India.
An open U.S. defeat would also be a morale boost for our enemies. This is the land where the jihadists beat one superpower, the Soviet Union, and giving them a second victory would be a psychological jolt. This would help their recruiting, fundraising and morale in general. Similarly, U.S. friends would be dispirited, seeing the United States as abandoning the region despite many U.S. and allied sacrifices.
Beyond counterterrorism interests, there is a humanitarian case for remaining in Afghanistan. The Taliban oppose women’s rights, religious tolerance, education for girls and general liberal democratic values. Preventing such a group from gaining power helps Afghans. Although the United States cannot and should not intervene everywhere to promote human rights, Afghanistan represents a possible exception given the long-standing U.S. involvement coupled with the security reasons and serious humanitarian concerns.
Nor is the picture in Afghanistan all dark. The U.S. military reports that the Talibanloseapproximately 10,000 fighters each year in casualties—a huge number. Unfortunately, they can replace lost cadre, but the cost to the group remains high. TheBrookings Afghanistan index, though largely negative in its implications, also suggests a few bright spots:
Furthermore, the cost of the U.S. presence has declined as the total number of troops has plummeted. Even with the president’s troop increase, the roughly 12,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan would still constitute a fraction of the more than 100,000 troops stationed in Afghanistan during the height of the U.S. troop presence under Obama. The more than 20,000 private Defense Department contractors working for U.S. companiesaddconsiderably to this number, though the figure includes other nationalities. Casualties have plummeted as the U.S. presence has declined. In 2016, the United Stateslost14 soldiers—down from more than 400 each year in 2010 and 2011. With far fewer troops deployed, the cost has decreased to perhaps $20 billion or so a year, though this total varies dramatically depending on how the figure is computed. While hardly small, this amount is not astronomical either. It would, of course, rise substantially if the United States again committed larger numbers of forces.
Related Books
Robert I. Rotberg
February 27, 2007
Ivo H. Daalder, 																												Nicole Gnesotto, 																												Philip H. Gordon
January 10, 2006
Daniel L. Byman
October 1, 2007
If the Trump administration is serious about taking on Pakistan, it should consider expanding the war there via drones, covert operations and commando raids—a substantial escalation. The Taliban’s leadership presence and bases in Pakistan make it almost impossible to defeat without confrontation.
From a political perspective, having gone big makes it harder to go small: Both Bush and Obama put massive resources into Afghanistan to win, and that expectation of victory lingers even as U.S. resources have diminished and the war drags on. If the United States plans to stay involved, the Trump administration needs to redefine success. Trump’s promise of “we will win”soundsgreat as rhetoric, but it’s not a realistic policy goal given the resources his administration plans to commit. If the United States couldn’t win against a weaker Taliban with 100,000 U.S. troops, then promising the same goal with a tenth as many troops against a stronger Taliban is unlikely to succeed. My Brookings colleagues John Allen and Michael O’Hanlon havelaid outa more realistic objective: reversing the Taliban’s momentum. By the end of Trump’s time in office, if the Afghan government gains rather than loses territory, then the United States may be ready to plan more ambitiously. Until then, if the United States has decided to stay, U.S. leaders should recognize the Afghan intervention as a limited use of resources to achieve a limited objective.
Related Content
John R. Allen, 																Vanda Felbab-Brown, 																Tanvi Madan, 																Michael E. O’Hanlon, 																Bruce Riedel, 																Tarun Chhabra, 																Bruce Jones
July 12, 2017
Bruce Riedel
August 30, 2017
Vanda Felbab-Brown
August 29, 2017
Author

Foreign Policy
Afghanistan
Center for Middle East Policy
Vanda Felbab-Brown
August 14, 2024
Madiha Afzal
May 5, 2023
2023
Online Only
9:00 am - 10:00 am EDT
Get the latest from Brookings
The Brookings Institution is a nonprofit organization based in Washington, D.C. Our mission is to conduct in-depth, nonpartisan research to improve policy and governance at local, national, and global levels.
Copyright 2024 The Brookings Institution

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:09Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: More Militias? Part 2: The proposed Afghan Territorial Army in the fight against ISKP - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
In recent days, Afghan government officials have raised the possibility of standing up a new militia force, the Afghan Territorial Army (ATA), modelled after both its Indian namesake and the Afghan Local Police (ALP). AAN understands that President Ghani is currently considering a pilot project for the ATA in the Achin and Kot districts of southern Nangrahar. This is, of course, the stronghold of Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), the local franchise of Daesh and the centre of the United States’ and Afghan government’s battle against it. AAN’s Kate Clark and Borhan Osman have been considering the viability of the pilot project and what might be its long term consequences. They also recall how an earlier United States arming of tribesmen in Achin paved the way for its takeover by Daesh.
This dispatch is a follow-on from aprevious piece, which looked at the ATA proposal in the light of the ALP experience and considered how it fitted into General Nicholson and President Ghani’s military strategy for Afghanistan
This dispatch is published as part of a joint three-year project by AAN, the Global Public Policy institute (GPPi), and the American University of Iraq, Sulaimani. The project explores the role and impact of militias, local or regional defence forces and other quasi-state forces in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Syria, including mechanisms for foreign assistance to such actors. Funding is provided by the Netherlands Research Organisation.
Militias and Americans in the fight against Daesh
The fight against Daesh in Afghanistan is politically important: one of Nicholson’s aims for 2017 is to “defeat” the group, something that President Trump echoed when he described America’s goal of “winning the war” and “obliterating ISIS.” The districts where it is present in Nangrahar province are also some of the few where US boots on the ground – and US planes in the air – are in evidence. The US military has been working very closely, not only with the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF), particularly Afghan special forces, but also local militias. The Afghan National Army and Afghan National Police (ANP) are present, but have earned a reputation for failing to hold ground.
Local fighters, by contrast, have made a name for being effective, aggressive against the enemy and, unlike other places, not particularly abusive of the population. They are under arms as members of the Afghan Local Police (ALP), the Afghan National Border Police (ANBP) and other, mostly local, ‘uprising forces’ funded by the National Directorate for Security (NDS) and raised by local powerbrokers. Here, the proposal to establish an Afghan Territorial Army (ATA) would seem to be a consolidation and regularisation of what is already happening on the ground, bringing informal ‘uprising’ militia forces into an official tashkil (personnel roster) and to place them under formal Afghan National Army (ANA) command. (1)
The current militia forces in southern Nangrahar were part of an experimental drive in 2015 by the NDS to set up ‘popular uprising forces’ (going under various local names, includingKhezesh-e MardomiandPatsunian, but in southern Nangrahar called theHemayat-e Mardomior People’s Support) (read morehere). They received arms from the Ministry of Defence, not just light, but also heavy weaponry, including _pika _(PK machine guns),dashaka(DShK heavy machine guns) and rocket-propelled grenades.
This may sound like the state established these militias. However, local powerbrokers have been crucial or evenprimaryin their formation. Foremost among these powerbrokers is Haji Abdul Zaher Qader, MP and former deputy speaker of the parliament and, among other senior positions in the Afghan police force, a former border police chief in Badakhsan and Takhar. He is one of the most powerful men in Nangrahar and, currently, the most powerful member of the influential Arsala clan, a prominent mujahedin family which fought with the Hezb-e Islami Khales faction (now largely defunct as a political party). Haji Zaher has forces in the uprising militias, as well as the ALP and ANBP in Achin, Nazyan and Kot districts. Earlier in the summer, hepressedfor long-term support and more equipment from the government for anti-Daesh militia in the province.
Others mobilising forces for the militias are Haji Hayat Khan, another former jihadi commander, close to Provincial Governor Muhammad Gulab Mangal and active in Kot, as well as the less prominent Malek Dehqan who is active in Nazyan district. The forces of all three men have been instrumental in holding territory taken from Daesh, something ANSF units have repeatedly failed to do. Locals also described them to AAN as fearlessly chasing Daesh militants, again in contrast to conventional ANSF units.
Haji Zaher is easily the most prominent of the three powerbrokers. His current alliance with the US military and his record in mobilising forces for them has made him very important, more influential than the provincial governor or ANA Corps commander and giving him the basis even to stand against National Security Advisor Hanif Atmar (accusing him of supporting Daeshand calling for the National Security Council’s budget to be cut ). Zaher is not particularly popular locally, but he is rich – he boasted to parliament in 2013 that he was worthmore than 365 million US dollars– and he can mobilise men.
The ATA, modelled on the ALP?
This is all a long way from the proposed ‘village defence forces’ of the ALP, which officials said the ATA would copy (see AAN’s previousdispatchabout the ATA). In the ALP model, according to agreed (but not always implemented) procedures, forces are very local, chosen by the community and not deployed elsewhere, except with the permission of the provincial chief of police. They should only take part in defensive action. Where existing militias have simply been ‘re-badged’ as ALP, the units have tended be the most abusive and troublesome. For more detail on this, see also a recentAAN reporton accountability in the ALP .
Sixteen years experience of standing up militia forces in Afghanistan, mainly with foreign, mainly US military backing, some by the Afghan government, has provided a lot of guidance about risks and benefits, particularly in the following areas: accountability whether through formal chains of command or through community control, or better both; local ‘buy-in’ for a force or lack of it; whether the new force will harm the local tribal, or sub-tribal balance of power; whether it makes potentially abusive powerbrokers richer or more powerful (with special reference to elections and the possible benefits of crime, especially in the opium industry) and whether the potential long-term negative consequences of raising a militia have trumped its short-term benefits. For more detail on this, see AAN’s firstdispatchon the ATA).
Community ‘buy in’ and the local balance of power
The fight against ISKP is popular locally. It is seen as an ‘existential fight’ and ISKP as a foreign force which has behaved with unparalleled brutality towards civilians. These, then, are the grounds for a successful campaign and for Zaher, in particular, to gain popularity. Indeed, little criticism of his mobilisation of men is heard in Nangrahar. Although Zaher is not particularly popular locally, people from the districts, including tribal elders and observers, will not speak against the uprising forces or against Zaher because their hatred of Daesh is so great. Even so, the raising of militia forces is not without controversy.
If you have a one-hour conversation with locals and dig into history a little and ask about ‘the day after Daesh’, fears surface about what could happen after the hoped for victory against ISKP. One reason is that, in this area, people have hostilities even within the same tribal structure. That is one reason why, from the Shinwar tribe, for example, some are contributing men to the militias, others not. Somemaleksand elders who have disputes with others have been aligning themselves with Zaher to use his authority against rivals – to settle scores, get power or money for land disputes or to bolster their position in local politics. This dynamic can have dangerous consequences.
Indeed, the emergence of ISKP can be traced back to the US arming one sub-tribe – the Sepai of the Shinwar, including in Achin district, in 2009 to face the Taleban. The ‘Shinwari Pact’, much hailed at the time, turned to catastrophe as the Sepai used their new-found power to grab land from the rival Alisherkhel sub-tribe, resulting in conflict within the larger tribe. This led the Alisherkhel to call in Pakistani militant groups for support and to the area sinking into chaotic militancy and violence. Intra-tribal solidarity was eroded – with devastating consequences. When Daesh threatened their lands, the weakened Shinwar were simply unable to stand against them. Their area was swiftly captured by the militants in early 2015. (For more detail on this, seehere).
It is understandable then, why people fear that this fresh mobilisation and arming of civilians could again be brewing trouble in the long run. A hard look at local politics, demography and history in southern Nangrahar demonstrates a high risk that arming civilians in paramilitary forces is likely to throw the tribal and sub-tribal balance out of kilter.
Drugs and votes
Two serious issues have emerged in research on the ALP and other post-2001 militia forces – their relationship with the opium economy and with elections.
Militias have been repeatedly used since 2001 for strengthening patronage networks ahead of elections, getting the vote out, both in the form of actual and stuffed ballots, and keeping supporters of rival candidates from getting out to vote. (2) A natural tie-in between control of armed forces and of borders and provinces where drug smuggling and other criminal enterprises can earn money has also been seen. (This is not limited to militias, of course, as work on the Ministry of Interior hasshown.)International Crisis Grouphas described this phenomena, for example, among “those ALP units with ties to factional militia leaders, often in places where Afghan powerbrokers want control of drug routes or other strategic territory” and said it gives the units effective impunity. It reports the comment of one Afghan senator: “‘Drug mafias are controlling ALP in many places… They can make a phone call from their village to a minister and avoid the chain of command.’” (3)
Nangarhar enjoys both a large vote bank, making it highly significant for presidential candidates, as well as those running in parliamentary elections and a significant role in Afghanistan’s opium industry. It rankedfifth in the ranks of poppy-cultivating provinceslast year and has important border crossings for smuggling drugs out of Afghanistan and importing the precursors needed to make heroin. (4) On past experience, such a provincial profile would lead to concerns about how militia formation might forge or strengthen relations of patronage ahead of elections and about what militia forces might be used for after the battle with Daesh is (hopefully) won.
Zaher, himself, stands accused of drug smuggling. On 15 August 2011, the Attorney General’s Office summoned him by letter to answer accusations that he was the head of a drug smuggling gang (see the letterhere). His secretary and cousin Bilal Wali Muhammad had been caught with a large amount of heroin in a border police car in Takhar. ABC Newsreportedthat a manhunt was on for Zaher himself, although he was never arrested . Zaher said it amounted to a political plot against him. In the end, Bilal was sentenced to 19 years in jail, only to be pardoned just ahead of the 2009 presidential elections in adeal by President Karzaito get Bilal and Zaher’s uncle, Din Muhammad, on board as his campaign manager. ABC News also reported Afghan officials saying Karzai had wanted to name Haji Zaher as head of the border police, but a US military intelligence assessment (which the network had obtained in 2006) had “named Zahir as a drug smuggler.” (5)
Locals have alleged that Zaher benefits from smuggling and illegal checkpoints and these ‘business interests’ have been hurt by the growth of ISKP and the Taleban, reducing the territory in Nangrahar under his influence. If this is the case, getting rid of Daesh may also have financial incentives. There may also be political ones.David Mansfield, writing for AREU, said Zaher was aggrieved, after backing Ghani in the 2014 elections, that neither he nor one of his supporters got the Nangrahar governorship. Instead, it went to ‘technocrat’ Salim Khan Kunduzi, who is also nephew to the deputy leader of National Security Advisor Atmar’s Rights and Justice Party. “[T]he appointment of Kunduzi as governor,” wrote Mansfield, “was seen by Zahir as an affront; a signal that National Security Adviser Hanif Atmar was in ascendance, and a further impetus to bypass government institutions, exemplified by his establishment of a private militia.”
Whatever Zaher’s motivation is for raising anti-Daesh militias, the close working relationship with the US military the mobilisation has given him is likely to leave him permanently more powerful.
One other curiosity to note which may influence Zaher’s future prospects is that he has carved out a position mainly as an anti-ISKP figure. He has not taken a known hostile position against the Taleban. AAN was told there are channels between both parties. Local officials in Achin and Pachir wa Agam districts, as well as NDS officials, have said that, during the past two years, there has been occasional cooperation in the common fight against ISKP between the Taleban and local uprising forces, with the endorsement of local Afghan officials. (In Achin, we were told that Taleban positions were marked with a particular flag in spring 2016, so that the US would not mistakenly bomb them. Even if incorrect, the rumour indicates something interesting about public perceptions.) US air strikes against Taleban fighters in the southern Nangarhar districts have not been absent, but they have been far less frequent than attacks against the ISKP. There have also generally been few reported Taleban attacks against American forces in these areas.
Abuses and accountability
In terms of the uprising forces’ treatment of civilians, up till now, they have generally behaved well in Nangrahar. But militias loyal to Zaher did mete out criminal violence towards locals in the early years after 2001 – see detail in this2004 reportby Human Rights Watch) which documented militias loyal to Zaher and to his rival, Hazrat Ali, seizing land and other property, kidnapping civilians for ransom and extorting money. It also found their close relationship with US forces left them untouchable, politically and in terms of the Afghan criminal justice system. (6)) Not surprisingly, there is some fear that history will repeat itself.
Concerns about a wider lack of accountability and of Zaher condoning, indeed encouraging, brutality have already surfaced, most publicly in December 2015 when uprising forces loyal to Zaher beheaded a number of alleged ISKP fighters and displayed their heads on the main road. In the best case scenario those killed had been fightershors de combat(ie prisoners, protected persons under the Geneva Conventions, making this a war crime). Locals, however, described them as “Afridi boys” who had been settled in the area for a long time; civilians who were suspected simply because they were from the same tribe and area (Khyber Agency) as many of the Daesh fighters. Zaher was unrepentant,tellingreporters it had been retaliation for the beheading of four of his militiamen, “Do you think if they behead you,” he asked, “you cook them sweets?” He has posted grisly pictures of decapitated heads and militiamen with their feet on dead bodies on hisFacebook page.
Accountability mechanisms governing the uprising forces in Achin have not been in place up to now. One aim of regularising the uprising forces may be to try and get better formal command and control. This could also be the reason for creating an ATA, rather than bringing additional forces into the ALP, with the hope that accountability would be stronger through the military than the police. However, at the moment, Zaher is more powerful than the provincial corps commander and it would likely be difficult for the Ministry of Defence to discipline his forces. An obvious, basic question, then, is who would actually be in charge of the militias if they were re-badged as ATA: Zaher and the other power-brokers, or the ANA?
The use of militias and their possible regularisation as ATA units in Achin and Kot is, in part, a bid to patch over the deficits in regular ANA and ANP forces. This is a recurrent reason for standing up militias: the US military and/or the Afghan government feel they do not have the time to improve regular ANSF forces and reach for the, allegedly quicker and cheaper, ‘militia option’. It may feel a simpler solution at the time, but has been shown to risk stoking up future troubles. Armed forces, established with formal command and control mechanisms and with some insulation from powerbrokers, are easier to control. However, if the US military or Afghan government had qualms about backing the armed men of a figure with a history of running abusive militias, boasting about war crimes and with official accusations against him of drug smuggling, it has not held them back. Rather, the perceived imperative of defeating Daesh won out.
The ATA in Achin and Kot – a useful place to pilot?
The location of the possible pilot test for the ATA – two districts where local militias have been raised to fight a ‘foreign enemy’ with close US military cooperation – also reveals potential flaws in rolling out the project nationally. In southern Nangrahar, there has been genuine and widespread support from the local population to fight the ISKP, despite some disquiet about future consequences. The militias here have also had extremely close cooperation with American forces, unusual in recent times given the limited nature of the US combat mission. The local militias in southern Nangrahar feel themselves monitored, one possible reason why they have held back from abusing civilians.
All of this makes for Kot and Achin being highly abnormal among Afghanistan’s many insurgent-plagued districts where the enemy is the Afghan Taleban and Afghan forces are fighting without any international presence on the ground. Nowhere else in Afghanistan can be found the same combination of an external, existential threat, the watching eyes of foreign forces and extreme animosity towards the enemy. This raises the question of whether Achin and Kot can really serve as the site of a genuine pilot project for the ATA.
(1) This also raises questions about who is and will fund the militias/ATA and, as a follow on, whether there is any external funding. (In relation to the militias, The Wall Street Journalreportssecurity officials saying the CIA picks up most of the bills for the NDS, but that its funding is discretionary. The US military is the largest funder of the ANA.
(2)Goodhand and Hakimidescribed how Aref Nurzai, ally and relative by marriage of former president Karzai, used militias (known as the Community Defense Force or CDF) as “vehicles for strengthening patronage relationships in relation to the [poll].” They also describe how then Balkh governor, Nur Muhammad Atta, pre-eminent strongman in the north, was accused, “of fanning insecurity and arming local militias to disrupt elections in Pashtun areas and undermine the incumbent’s [Karzai] electoral chances and boost his rival Abdullah, a political ally of Atta.” In neighbouring Kunduz, reportedDerksen, “President Karzai, Jamiati power brokers, and others vied for influence through local appointments and by giving or withholding support to local militias.” They included the provincial governor, Engineer Omar, who asked his brother-in-law, General Muhammad Daud, the provincial NDS chief, to recruit local militias to “stem the insurgency’s rise and help secure the vote.” Earlier, Human Rights Watchwrotein its 2011 report on the ALP, “Since it came to power in 2001,” reported the Afghan government has been using and paying militias, with an increase in their deployment for elections in both 2004 and 2005.” Militias were also used, to help both Karzai and Dr Abdullah, north and south.
(3) Particularly egregious among criminally-oriented militias were thePrivate Security Companies(PSCs) used by the international military for transport supplies and guarding bases between 2005 and 2009 and described in a 2011 US House of Representatives investigation as “warlords, strongmen, commanders, and militia leaders masquerading as PSCs.” They were involved in drug smuggling, land grabbing and other criminal activities: the House of Representatives called the sector a “protection racket.”
(4) UNODC tracked opium production rising by 43 per cent in Nangrahar last year compared to 2015. However, production has fallen markedly in the districts controlled by ISKP which banned it. Production fell in Achin from 3,004 to 698 metric tonnes and in Kot, from 2,040 to 80 metric tonnes (between 2014 and 2016).
(5) Barnett Rubin described in 2000 how the Arsala clan had become rich:
The Arsala clan (Haji Abdul Qadir [Zaher’s father] and his brothers) was at the center of the commercial development of Jalalabad, profiting from Nangarhar province’s skyrocketing opium production and using the Jalalabad airport as a center for the import of goods from Dubai for smuggling into Pakistan in alliance with Afghan and Pakistani Pashtun truckers and the local administration of the NWFP [North-West Frontier Province].
“The Political Economy of War and Peace in Afghanistan”,World Development Vol 28, No 10, pp 1789-1803, 2000.
(6) Human Rights Watch wrote:
Hazrat Ali and Haji Zahir’s commanders throughout the Nanga[r]har area operate criminal enterprises and continue to engage in numerous human rights abuses, including the seizure of land and other property, kidnapping civilians for ransom, and extorting money—as Human Rights Watch has previously documented. As noted below, U.S. and coalition forces continue to cooperate with these forces in operations against the Taliban and other insurgent groups.
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 21 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: Bracing for Attacks on Ashura: Extra security measures for Shia mourners - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
Author: AAN Team and Thomas Ruttig
The Afghan government is arming local civilians and strengthening the police presence across the country to try to protect Shia Muslim places of worship in the run-up to Ashura. The commemoration will take place this Sunday (1 October 2017). With these last-minute measures, the government is reacting to demands from the community and criticism that it has failed to protect Shias from sectarian attacks by the local branch of Daesh. According to leading Shia politicians, these measures will not be temporary. Thomas Ruttig and the AAN team have looked at what is happening on the ground in a number of neighbourhoods in and beyond Kabul and on the possible repercussions.
The wave of violence against Afghanistan Shia community continued with two attacks on Thursday and Friday (28 and 29 September 2017) in Kabul. In the first incident, in the late afternoon on 28 September, three people, including two policemen, were killed and 16 others injured in a blast near Pamir Cinema (at the western end of the main Maiwand Street), in the Chendawol area of Kabul’s old town that has a significant Shia population, according to an Afghan media report. A spokesman for the Ministry of Interior (MoI)statedthat the blast was triggered by a magnetic bomb attached to a police vehicle. AAN detected Daesh online sources hinting at its involvement in this attack and claiming it was directed against a Shiatakiakhana(assembly hall) in the area.
In the second incident, a group of attackers, including two suicide bombers, reportedly caused blasts among Shia worshippers who were leaving Hussainia mosque in the Qala-ye Fathullah in centre-west Kabul in the early afternoon. The casualty figure was at five dead and 25 injured, at least, a few hours after the incident (media reportshereandhere). There was no claim of responsibility for this attack by the late afternoon (Kabul time) on Friday.
Historically, Ashura processions were not marked by sectarian violence in Afghanistan, but that has changed over the last few years. Since 2011, almost every Ashura has seen terrorist attacks on Shia congregations. But it is not just at Ashura that Shias fear attack: over the past two years, Daesh’s a local branch, the Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), has vowed – and made good on its threats – to attack Shia Muslims and it has perpetrated attacks throughout the whole year. Attacks on Shia mosques and other targets particularly proliferated countrywide after the emergence of ISKP (seehere). Since summer 2016, at least seven Shia mosques have been attacked in various regions of Afghanistan; five of those attacks happened this year. (1) ISKP and ‘Daesh Central’ in Syria and Irqa have repeatedly justified its attacks on Hazaras by accusing them of helping their enemies’, ie fighting in pro-regime militias in Syria, ad attacked them as ‘apostates’. (‘Daesh Central’s’ justification of the 11 October 2016 attack in Kabul is quotedhere); read also our reporting of Afghans fighting in Syriahere,hereandhere).
Not surprisingly, though, as Ashura approached, pressure mounted on the government to get serious about protecting mourners this year. (2)
Ashura is the tenth day of Muharram, the first month in the Islamic lunar calendar, when particularly Shia Muslims mourn the killing of Hussain Ibn Ali, grandson of the Prophet Muhammad in Karbala, in today’s Iraq, in 680 AD, in fighting over who would lead the Muslimumma. Shiite neighbourhoods are decorated with black, red and green banners and tents set up where free food and tea is distributed to the participants. The occasion is marked by marches and ceremonies where people grieve for the events of Karbala, sometimes with men beating or flagellating themselves. For nine days, the ceremonies grow, with the climax on Ashura day itself.
What the government has promised to do.
Less than two weeks before this year’s Ashura, on 19 September 2017, extra protection measures wereannouncedby Second Vice President Sarwar Danesh after he had presided over a meeting of high-ranking government, security officials and a “joint people’s security commission” that includes Shia clergymen, MPs and other representatives. In a meeting with a number of Shia and Sunni ulema on 25 September 2017, President Ashraf Ghani also assured both communities that measures had been taken to commemorate Ashura “in a secure environment” and that “the enemies of Islam… cannot damage the unity of our people and prevent our religious activities.” (seehere)
Police usually only guard mosques (of all sects) on certain occasions, during Friday prayers and on other religious holidays, when particular ceremonies are held or VIPs are attending, often on the initiative of the conveners of such ceremonies. This year, additional police have been deployed around places of worship of the Shiite community, coordinated by the Ministry of Interior. Danesh, himself a Shia, called “especially” on the youth to secure places of worship in their respective areas during the days of Muharram.
A second and far more controversial measure is the arming of civilians to guard Shia mosques and takiakhanas. Acting Interior Minister Wais Barmak who participated in the meeting presided over by vice president Daneshsaidon 20 September that “hundreds of people” had been recruited for training by his ministry. He also confirmed that “measures… to distribute weapons, salaries and other necessary means to the newly recruited people” have been taken. AFP, without a concrete source, gave a figure of “over 400”recruits. The selection of guards was reported to have been made by local elders and communities and in cooperation with mosque committees. (The model here of ‘community defence forces’ would be the Afghan Local Police (ALP) and planned Afghan Territorial Army – see recent AAN analysishere).
Deputy Chief Executive Muhammad Mohaqqeq told ulema in a meeting on 22 September 2017 that, based on a plan approved by the National Security Council, 600 mosques were supposed to getguards. If this figure is correct, the numbers of recruits given are far too low to cover the amount of sites to be protected. Similar doubts were raised by participants of the meeting.
In Kabul, a smaller number of Sunni mosques are alsoreportedlyincluded in this programme. This might be a step to alleviate concerns among the Sunni majority vis-à-vis the arming of Shia civilians, in a general atmosphere where inter-and intra-communal mistrust and between communities and the government and its security forces has been on the rise.
Danesh has emphasised that these measures would not be limited to this year’s Muharram. He spoke of a “medium-term policy… for across the country… [and for] one to two years,” depending on how security conditions develop.
The second vice president also appealed to those participating in the Ashura commemorations to behave in a way that prevents provoking “unwarranted emotions.” He did not explain further. However, the mourning rituals of Muharram have become very public and far more visible each year since 2001 and not everyone is happy with this assertive display. (For a detailed look Ashura before 2001, during the Taleban era, seehere,and for a longer view of sectarian relations, seehere.)
The rituals of Muharram have become an identity marker for Afghanistan’s Hazara and other Shia communities who were long and systematically oppressed, but who have become more self-assured in recent years, after their successful resistance to the Soviet occupation (the Hazarajat was the first largest liberated area in the 1980s). There have been immense progress in education and political representation during these years, albeit with many caveats (see a good, detailed examination of this,here.) In previous years, some groups of Sunni Muslims have objected to what they perceive ‘too assertive’ displays of Muharram rituals, leading, for example, to clashes between fringe groups at Kabul University (seehere). In 2016, the Shiite community wasaskedby the authorities to keep commemorations low-key, “to ensure better security in Kabul city and the safety of mourners.”
What is happening on the ground
The security measures began to materialise in the very last days before Ashura and seem to be concentrated in those big cities – Kabul, Herat and possibly Mazar-e Sharif – which have beentargetsof sectarian attacks in previous years. This has been confirmed for Herat where the measures were reportedly discussed between Vice President Danesh and the province’s governor, Mohammad Asef Rahim. A locally based observer confirmed to AAN that the government has armed some local people who are visible in and around mostly Shia mosques in Herat city and outside of it. The weapons have been given to them via local structures such as Community Development Councils. Additionally, he reported, some local people, “mostly Shias outside Herat city,” have armed themselves, with “simple shotguns” already existent or newly bought and are patrolling their areas in shifts, mostly throughout the night. He adds that “day-to-day life is going on amid the increasing securitisation.”
However, the same measures seem not to apply in the cities of Ghazni and Kandahar, both of which have a sizeable Shia population. According to local sources contacted by AAN, including local residents and journalists, security is “very tight” around mosques in the Shia parts of Ghazni, but with all the security personnel in ANP uniform. No additional plain-clothed personnel is visible there so far, according to neighbours of such mosques. The same goes for the Shia neighbourhood of Top Khana in Kandahar.
In Kabul, AAN observed police contacting elders in different police districts of the city to identify volunteers who could carry out body searches on Ashura. The police also appealed to the elders for their neighbourhoods to corporate with the force. People have been asked to keep their eyes open and identify strangers not belonging to the communities. Access roads to mosques and takiakhanas will be blocked and body searches implemented by a mixture of police and civilian guards, both for and by men and women, on the day of Ashura, itself.
From one Shia area in west Kabul, AAN heard that five people had been chosen for each mosque by the Shia Ulema Council and the MoI. The recruits have to be from the mosque’s precinct and the mosque’s board of trustees(hay’at-e umana)agree to them; the MoI will be issued with a special ID card with photos of the guard and, as an additional back-up, a relative on it. According to local residents, they will be paid 6,000 Afghani monthly. In one neighbourhood mosque in the Telegraph area of Police District Six, for example, the MoI gave five AK 47 and 75 bullets to its five recruits on 26 September.
In some mosques, the board of trustees or those in charge have also taken extra measures on their own initiative. At Rasul Akram Mosque in Shahrak-e Omid Sabz (better known as the Haji Nabi township) where President Ghani attended Ashura commemorations over the last few years have put up a barrier of cement blocks in a radius of approximately a hundred metres around the mosque, with only small entrances left towards the mosque. This was not the case in previous years. In some areas of Kabul, armed people in plain clothes protecting Shia mosques and takiakhanas were already observed. It was not clear, though, whether these were people part of the government plan or locally mobilised guards.
In one mosque in Khairkhana, women were asked by elders after a previous terrorist attack in the area not to attend the commemoration. Security guards also told participants in already on-going commemorations to stay in one venue and not, as is normal practice, go from one mosque to another, in an effort to prevent strangers from infiltrating the crowd.
Members of the AAN team have also observed cases where plain-clothed armed personnel were standing guarding stands distributing tea, milk and other foodstuff specific installed for Muharram.
Perhaps not unexpectedly, the first criticisms of the mosque guard programme has also emerged. The website ofSalam Watandar, a popular radio programme developed and formally sponsored by the BBC, in a report from Kabul’s 13thpolice district, in the southwest of city, quotes local neighbourhood representatives (wakilan-e guzar) and residents that somewakilsare keeping their neighbours in the dark about the programme. There are allegations that some wakils are mainly putting forward their relatives and sympathisers as guards. Shia MP Abdul Ahmad Ali Yazdanparast, however, denied reports of wrongdoing and the head of the police district claimed the lists had been compiled in cooperation with the mosques’ religious affairs commissions and in cooperation with the Ministry of Hajj.
This account, however, does not rule out manipulation. As understandable as the anger of various communities about the wave of ISKP terrorist attacks and the inability of the government to protect them is, the mosque protection programme does open the door for abuse. The pattern of ‘village guards’, also armed civilians, being co-opted by interest groups, commanders and powerful politicians is familiar, as is skimming off resources. This becomes particularly problematic if local civilian guard forces become longer-term and adequate oversight measures are lacking. In such circumstances the new guard forces can just look like newmilitias.
Conclusion: Last-minute, long impact?
The government seems to have reacted only at the last minute to the legitimate security concerns of the Shia community, despite having months to plan for this year’s Ashura. There are also doubts about the effectiveness of arming civilians. It is doubtful, for example, they would be able stop a complex attack in a crowded place when masses of worshippers are marching or trying to enter a certain mosque or congregation site. In 2016, even regular ANSF units, trained to search and monitor, failed to detect the ISKP bombers in Kabul’s Sakhi shrine. Moreover, even if the searchers succeed in their task, an atrocity could then simply occur at their check-post, which could be as crowded as the site it is supposed to protect, and likely with little downward impact on casualty figures.
All in all, the plan looks much more like a symbolic act of reassuring the Shia communities that the government is ‘doing something’, rather than achieving a real improvement security. Crowds of civilians are among the most vulnerable of targets and the most difficult to protect, so what is being implemented may be the best that could be expected. However, the warning signs are also there, from previous experiences of arming civilians and giving them little training and indifferent oversight. The longer groups of armed civilians exist, the more opportunities of misuse will arise, as the different stages of militia programmes have sufficiently shown (AAN analysishere). There are particular risks when, as currently, inter-and intra-communal mistrust (see AAN analysishereandhere) and mistrust between communities and the government and its security forces are on the rise from all sides.
Edited by Borhan Osman and Kate Clark
(1) On the eve of last year’s Ashura, on 11 October 2016, at least 14 people were killed (including the local police chief) and 26 more injured by a gunman, dressed in a police uniform, who had sneaked into the Sakhi Shrine, near Kabul university. The shrine is one of the most important Shia places of gathering in the country. (See AAN reportinghere.) In a simultaneous attack next to a Shia mosque in Balkh district, 15 people were killed and more than 30 wounded by an IED (seehere).
On 21 November 2016, a suicide bomber killed 32 and injured more than 50 people (UNAMA figures) in Baqir al-Olumi mosque in Kabul during a service to commemorate the death of Imam Hussein, the Prophet Muhammad’s grandson and a Shia martyr (seehere).
In February 2017, (local, ie ALP?) policemen and relatives were reportedly attacked when leaving a mosque after prayer in Jawzjan province. Eleven people, including one woman, were killed.
On late 15 June 2017, during the last days of Ramadan, suicide bombers attacked the al-Zahra mosque in west Kabul (seehereandhere), killing, according to different sources, between four and seven people and injuring as many as 18 others.
On 1 August 2017, armed men stormed the fully occupied Jawadia mosque in Herat’s Bakrabad neighbourhood during evening prayer, shooting at the worshippers and subsequently blowing themselves up. With 29 dead and 65 injured, this became the worst attack of its kind in Herat so far. Afterwards, local protests broke out, with immediately after, angry people pelting a nearby police station with stones and accusing the policemen of not adequately protecting them. A later protest demonstration was attended by thousands – notably, it was a mixed crowd of Shias and Sunnis.
On 25 August 2017 a suicide bomber and gunmen stormed the Shia Imam Zaman mosque in Kabul’s Khairkhana neighbourhood during Friday prayers, killing about 40 people and wounding nearly 100 (seehere), making this the worst attack on a Shia mosque in the country. Calls to allow people to arm themselves and protect their own mosques increased markedly after this attack.
In two other incidents in Herat, a Shia imam was killed in a drive-by shooting in December 2016 and a bomb exploded in May 2017 outside a bakery, killing seven people and injuring 17 more. In the case of bakery bombing it seems likely that the device exploded prematurely; the actual target is believed to have been a religious gathering of Shiites in a mosque nearby.
ISKP did not claim all but most of those attacks, the 11 October bombing in Kabul and the 12 October bombing inBalkh, the attacks in Kabul on 21 November 2016 and 15 June and 25 August 2017, and the February 2017 attack in Jawzjan. In Herat, it claimed the bakery and the Jawadia mosque bombings, but not the other incidents.)
ISKP had already claimed its first massive anti-Shia attack, a suicide attack on a public demonstration on social issues, organised by Hazara activists, in Kabul on 23 July 2016 (seehere). At least 80 people were killed and more than 200 wounded.(Footnote this:Even before the emergence of ISKP, in 2011, Shia congregations were attacked in Kabul and Mazar-e Sharif.More than fifty people were killed in an attack on an Ashura procession in Kabul’s Muradkhani, while four more people died in Mazar(see AAN analysishereandhere).
The ISKP attacks on Shia targets echo the approach of ‘Daesh Central’, and that of violent sectarian groups in Pakistan, some of which now associated with Daesh. In those countries, they have been part of a widespread, violent, sectarian, Sunni-versus-Shia conflict (see AAN analysishere) and it appeared that ISKP, as well as being consumed by sectarian hatred, also sought to provoke the same tit-for-tat violence in Afghanistan. This has not succeeded so far. Indeed, attacks have been followed by calls on all sides for national unity and Muslim brotherhood. That includes the Taleban, who have condemned attacks against Shia worshippers and mosques (see for examplehere, after the August 2017 attack in Herat). Many Afghan Shias and Hazaras, however, have complained about the government’s failure to protect them, some alleging indifference or collusion.
(2) The various communities of Shia Afghans are not alone in feeling under threat. Other communities and political forces in Afghanistan have alleged, too, that the government is either incapable or unwilling of protecting them, particularly after the ‘Black Week’ in Kabul in June this year (see AAN reportinghereandhere). There were even allegations that the security forces, or other parts of the government, had colluded with the terrorists. (See also AAN’s analysis of the latest government security plan for Kabul, the “Green Belt”,here.)
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: UNHCR Web Archive


Title: Afghanistan: Proposed Militia a Threat to Civilians
YubaNet
We Deliver News to the Sierra
Be the first to know, sign up for our newsletter, absolutely free of course.
New York, September 18, 2017 – TheAfghangovernment should reject proposals to create a new militia with inadequate training and oversight, Human Rights Watch said. Western diplomatic sources in Kabul told Human Rights Watch that President Ashraf Ghani is considering establishing a defense unit modelled on the Indian Territorial Army, an auxiliary force comprising personnel who serve on a short-term contract basis with the regular armed forces. The NATO Resolute Support Mission is believed to support such a local security force in Afghanistan.
An Afghan Territorial Army with reduced training and potentially less oversight risks being yet another abusive militia operating outside the military’s chain of command, Human Rights Watch said. If approved, the Afghan government is expected to determine the location of a pilot project by September 20, 2017.
“The Afghan government’s expansion of irregular forces could have enormously dangerous consequences for civilians,” saidPatricia Gossman, senior researcher at Human Rights Watch. “Instead of creating additional local forces, which are hard to control and prone to abuses, the Afghan government with US and NATO support should be strengthening training and oversight to ensure that all forces respect the law.”
In recent years, the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces have relied on militia forces such as the Afghan Local Police (ALP) to “hold” local territory reclaimed from the Taliban or insurgent groups belonging to the Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP). The group is an affiliate of the Islamic State (also known as ISIS) and is based in Nangarhar province.
The Afghan Local Police, established in 2010, was meant to serve as a local defense force. While these forces have gained some local support as a result ofrecent reforms,in many localities these forces have been responsible for numerousabuses against civilians, as well as summary executions of captured combatants andother violations of international humanitarian law. The proposed Afghan Territorial Army would ultimately replace the Afghan Local Police as a defense force at the local level. There is concern that existing Afghan Local Police units could remain armed as militia forces.
Independent, local journalism needs your support to survive and thrive. The default contribution frequency is set to monthly, but pick whatever works for you. Thank you.
Your contribution is appreciated.

Instead of creating a new militia, Afghan authorities should improve the training and capabilities of its existing troops, and hold accountable those responsible for abuses, Human Rights Watch said. The inadequacy of Afghan police and soldiers has been evident in districts of Nangarhar province in which ISKP groups have carried out frequent attacks.
The Indian Territorial Army, the model for this proposed defense force, has been deployed to support Indian counter-insurgency forces in Jammu and Kashmir. Territorial army personnel have been implicated in serious abuses, and its irregular status has contributed to a lack of accountability.
In one prominent case, on March 8, 1996, Maj. Avtar Singh of the territorial army detainedJalil Andrabi, a human rights lawyerand Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front member. Three weeks later Andrabi’s body was found floating in the Jhelum River near Srinagar. An autopsy showed that he had been killed days after his arrest. Indian authorities opened an investigation that ultimately indicted Major Singh, but state counsel asserted that Singh was not a member of the armed forces but under contract with the territorial army, and that his contract had expired and he was nowhere to be found.
The Afghan government has beenunable or unwilling to hold powerful strongmen accountable for abuses, including those who command Afghan Local Police units or other militias. It’s not clear how the government intends to ensure that new Afghan Territorial Army units, whose members will be paid less than their army counterparts, won’t fall into the same pattern.
While the territorial army would operate under a regular army corps commander, diplomatic sources told Human Rights Watch that Afghan officials involved in the discussions have expressed concern about the force becoming used by powerful strongmen, or becoming dependent on local patronage networks. There is also concern that the new force could replicate the criminality that many Afghan Local Police units exhibited, and clash with other government forces and militias over control of territory and smuggling routes.
In addition to the proposed Afghan Territorial Army, the Afghan government is considering creating a new 15,000-strong tribal militia, under the Ministry of Tribal and Border Affairs, currently headed by former governor Gul Agha Sherzai. The model for such a militia appears to be those established along ethnic lines by the late President Mohammad Najibullah in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Members of those militia forceswere responsible for serious human rights abuses.
“There is a long, unsavory history of using tribal and irregular militias in Afghanistan, and it has led to egregious crimes without accountability,” Gossman said. “Too often they have inflamed conflict rather than provide security.”
For more Human Rights Watch reporting on Afghanistan, please visit:https://www.hrw.org/asia/afghanistan
We've recently sent you an authentication link. Please, check your inbox!
Sign in with a password below, orsign in using your email.
Get a code sent to your email to sign in, orsign in using a password.
Enter the code you received via email to sign in, orsign in using a password.
Subscribe to our newsletters:
Sign in with your email
Lost your password?
Try a different email
Send another code
Sign in with a password
By signing up, you agree to our Terms of Service.

Title: Afghanistan: Proposed Militia a Threat to Civilians | Human Rights Watch
Irregular Forces Lack Effective Oversight, Accountability
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
(New York, September 15, 2017) – TheAfghangovernment should reject proposals to create a new militia with inadequate training and oversight, Human Rights Watch said today. Western diplomatic sources in Kabul told Human Rights Watch that President Ashraf Ghani is considering establishing a defense unit modelled on the Indian Territorial Army, an auxiliary force comprising personnel who serve on a short-term contract basis with the regular armed forces. The NATO Resolute Support Mission is believed to support such a local security force in Afghanistan.An Afghan Territorial Army with reduced training and potentially less oversight risks being yet another abusive militia operating outside the military’s chain of command, Human Rights Watch said. If approved, the Afghan government is expected to determine the location of a pilot project by September 20, 2017.“The Afghan government’s expansion of irregular forces could have enormously dangerous consequences for civilians,” saidPatricia Gossman, senior researcher at Human Rights Watch. “Instead of creating additional local forces, which are hard to control and prone to abuses, the Afghan government with US and NATO support should be strengthening training and oversight to ensure that all forces respect the law.”In recent years, the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces have relied on militia forces such as the Afghan Local Police (ALP) to “hold” local territory reclaimed from the Taliban or insurgent groups belonging to the Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP). The group is an affiliate of the Islamic State (also known as ISIS) and is based in Nangarhar province.The Afghan Local Police, established in 2010, was meant to serve as a local defense force. While these forces have gained some local support as a result ofrecent reforms,in many localities these forces have been responsible for numerousabuses against civilians, as well as summary executions of captured combatants andother violations of international humanitarian law. The proposed Afghan Territorial Army would ultimately replace the Afghan Local Police as a defense force at the local level. There is concern that existing Afghan Local Police units could remain armed as militia forces.Instead of creating a new militia, Afghan authorities should improve the training and capabilities of its existing troops, and hold accountable those responsible for abuses, Human Rights Watch said. The inadequacy of Afghan police and soldiers has been evident in districts of Nangarhar province in which ISKP groups have carried out frequent attacks.The Indian Territorial Army, the model for this proposed defense force, has been deployed to support Indian counter-insurgency forces in Jammu and Kashmir. Territorial army personnel have been implicated in serious abuses, and its irregular status has contributed to a lack of accountability.In one prominent case, on March 8, 1996, Maj. Avtar Singh of the territorial army detainedJalil Andrabi, a human rights lawyerand Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front member. Three weeks later Andrabi’s body was found floating in the Jhelum River near Srinagar. An autopsy showed that he had been killed days after his arrest. Indian authorities opened an investigation that ultimately indicted Major Singh, but state counsel asserted that Singh was not a member of the armed forces but under contract with the territorial army, and that his contract had expired and he was nowhere to be found.The Afghan government has beenunable or unwilling to hold powerful strongmen accountable for abuses, including those who command Afghan Local Police units or other militias. It’s not clear how the government intends to ensure that new Afghan Territorial Army units, whose members will be paid less than their army counterparts, won’t fall into the same pattern.While the territorial army would operate under a regular army corps commander, diplomatic sources told Human Rights Watch that Afghan officials involved in the discussions have expressed concern about the force becoming used by powerful strongmen, or becoming dependent on local patronage networks. There is also concern that the new force could replicate the criminality that many Afghan Local Police units exhibited, and clash with other government forces and militias over control of territory and smuggling routes.In addition to the proposed Afghan Territorial Army, the Afghan government is considering creating a new 15,000-strong tribal militia, under the Ministry of Tribal and Border Affairs, currently headed by former governor Gul Agha Sherzai. The model for such a militia appears to be those established along ethnic lines by the late President Mohammad Najibullah in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Members of those militia forceswere responsible for serious human rights abuses.“There is a long, unsavory history of using tribal and irregular militias in Afghanistan, and it has led to egregious crimes without accountability,” Gossman said. “Too often they have inflamed conflict rather than provide security.”
Discrimination and Other Abuses Against Papuans in Indonesia
Abusive Forced Evictions in Pakistan
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
Human Rights Watch defends the rights of people in close to 100 countries worldwide, spotlighting abuses and bringing perpetrators to justice
Get updates on human rights issues from around the globe. Join our movement today.
Every weekday, get the world’s top human rights news, explored and explained by Andrew Stroehlein.
Human Rights Watchis a 501(C)(3) nonprofit registered in the US under EIN: 13-2875808

Title: A Glance over Taliban-ISIS Relationship in Afghanistan  - The Daily Outlook Afghanistan
The self-styled Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS)  emerged in Iraq and extended its reach in Syria. Losing ground recently, this  group seeks safe havens in other parts of Islamic countries. Afghanistan, Libya  and Sudan loom a primary focus for the ISIS group. Considering the presence of  al-Qaeda and Arab militants in Afghanistan previously, the eastern part of this  country is overwhelmed by the volume of potential terrorism plots. However,  Afghanistan is not likely to turn to Iraq or Syria due to some particular  circumstances.The belief that the Taliban seek to strip off the followers  of other sects has been too exaggerated. Although during the takeover of  Mazar-e-Sharif in 1377 Afghan calendar, those who lost their lives were  Shiites, yet there are two issues to be taken into account: First, their attack  was out of revenge following their defeat, in which Hezb-e-Wahdat played the  crucial role. Second, foreign members of the Taliban – who treated other sects  very harshly and currently allied themselves with ISIS in Iraq and Syria – were  reportedly in the front-line.The Taliban did not claim the responsibility of attacking  Shiites in organized way, either. For example, a radical Pakistani group  claimed the responsibility of the bloody incident of Kabul in Ashura in 1390 and  Taliban, further, condemned the suicide attack on Enlightenment Movement  through issuing a statement and attributed this attack to the groups that seek  to fuel sectarianism. One of the high-ranking Taliban members Mawlavi Makhdum  Abdul Salam, who is also a member of the Taliban’s recruiting commission in  eastern Afghanistan, maintained that the emergence of ISIS group in the region  is damaging for Muslims. The view to eliminate the followers of other religion  in Islamic countries through violence and conflict is an illusion. No elements  will be able to strip off a sect from the surface of the earth. The masterminds  behind the scene are most likely of the view to sow the seeds of discord in  Islamic countries. To cut it short, one of serious distinctions between the  Taliban and ISIS depends on religious conflict – the issue that the ISIS  pursues strongly and allocated two editions of their official journal for  justifying Shiites’ murder. There are conflicting views in this regard between  ISIS and al-Qaeda since Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi believes that Shiites are infidel,  whereas Ayman al-Zawahiri denies this claim. There are also many other reasons  behind the hostile relationship between the Taliban and ISIS.According to the Taliban, ISIS is a rebellious group that  has refused to obey Emir-ul-Momineen (the commander of the faithful) but ISIS  believes that the Taliban did not pledge allegiance to the caliph – this is  also noticed in letters exchanged between the two groups. As a result, the  Taliban warned al-Baghdadi through a letter not to let ISIS step in Afghanistan,  or else he has to await the consequence. On the other hand, an offshoot of ISIS  declared in a statement issued in four languages that all Mujaheed forces  should gather under a single flag and leadership and there is no need for the  Taliban’s presence.The Taliban possess wealth and power in eastern and southern  parts of Afghanistan. The emergence of ISIS will reduce their power.  Additionally, ISIS will consider the country’s mineral resources and narcotic  drug as financial support for war, which will not be acceptable for the  Taliban. So, the groups are strong opponents.ISIS has adopted a global approach vis-à-vis its militant  activities and could establish a radical network around the world via its  deceptive slogans. However, the Taliban intends to re-establish an Islamic  Emirate in Afghanistan and fight for the withdrawal of foreign forces from this  country. Ruling Afghanistan for years, it was proved that the Taliban nurtured  ethnic and national tendencies.The conflict about the sources of wealth and power in  Afghanistan is based on ethnic and local tendencies rather than religious ones.  Therefore, the overwhelming numbers of ISIS group are the former Pakistani  Taliban that have pledged to this group recently. There are also some members  of Afghan Taliban – who nurtured a conflicting idea with the Taliban over financial  or ideological issues – with ISIS and also radical groups from Uzbekistan and  Tajikistan.NATO has reported that seventy percent of the ISIS group  that is operating in Afghanistan belongs to former militants of  “Tahreek-e-Taliban Pakistan” previously resided the “Orakzai” tribal belts in  Pakistan. The NATO’s General Secretary in Afghanistan maintained that the bulk  of ISIS group in this country belongs to Pakistani Taliban who escaped the  border following the operation Rad-ul-Fasad launched against the Taliban by  Pakistani military. He added that “Uzbekistan Islamic Movement (UIM)” also  associated with ISIS.To sum up, the ISIS struggles to spread horror and terror  across the country. The fact is that both the Taliban and Afghan government  deem ISIS as a threat. So, no bright future is imaginable for ISIS.Furthermore, it is hard for ISIS to capitalize on fueling  sectarianism in Afghanistan as it did in Iraq and Syria. This group might have  gained foothold in some parts of the country as a result of Salafis and  Wahhabis’ preaches but will soon meet failure. After all, their clandestine  activities carried out for sparking off religious conflicts – which were one of  the main reasons behind its influence in Iraq and Syria – should not be  ignored.
Ghulam Ahya Hussaini is the permanent writer of the Daily Outlook Afghanistan. He can be reached at the outlookafghanistan@gmail.com
Copyright ©2010www.outlookafghanistan.net - All Rights Reserved.

Title: US airstrike kills 11 insurgents in Afghanistan’s Nangarhar province - The Siasat Daily – Archive
Kabul [Afghanistan]: At least eleven Islamic State of Iraq and Syria Khorasan (ISIS-K) insurgents have been killed in an airstrike in eastern Nangarhar province of Afghanistan.
The provincial government media office said in a statement that the airstrike was carried out in the vicinity of Haska Mina district, the Khaama Press reported.
“The airstrike on Tuesday targeted militants operating under command of ISIS leader Tariq Afridi,” the statement further read.
ISIS-K has not commented on the deaths so far.
Earlier, airstrikes conducted by the U.S. forces in Afghanistan’s eastern Nangarhar province had killed at least fourteen militants affiliated with the ISIS-K.
Anti-ISIS as well as anti- Taliban operation is underway to eliminate the presence of ISIS affiliates in Nangarhar province and the U.S. forces are providing airstrikes support to the Afghan forces during the operations. ( ANI)

Title: No title found


Title: Afghan CEO warns Pakistan - Russia over supporting Taliban against ISIS in Afghanistan
KABUL - The Chief Executive of the Government of National Unity Abdullah Abdullah criticized the neighboring countries for supporting the anti-government armed militants with an aim to curb theISISterrorist group’s activities inAfghanistan.
Abdullah made the remarks during a gathering in Kabul to mark the international day of peace.
He called on the neighboring countries to refrain from further expanding the environment of war inAfghanistan.
Pakistan Navy Warships held joint military drill with UAE Navy
The Chie Executive further added that supporting the anti-government armed militant groups ofAfghanistanagainstISISis not a solution.
Abdullah did not specifically mention any neighboring country involved in supporting the anti-government armed militant groups, however earlier he has mentioned Pakistan Russia and Iran for supportingAfghan TalibanagainstISIS.
PTI Chairman Imran Khan to face Military Trial
However, reports have emerged in the past suggesting the growing influence of Russia inAfghanistanand Moscow’s support to Taliban amid fears theISISterrorist group is attempting to destabilize and expand its reach to the central Asian countries.
Speaking to the US Senate in February this year, the commander of the NATO and US forces inAfghanistanGeneral John Nicholson had also expressed concerns regarding the growing interferences by Russia, Iran, and Pakistan in the Afghan conflict.
Imran Khan to be court martialed along with former ISI Chief Faiz Hameed?
However, the Russia officials had said the contacts with the Taliban group were aimed at encouraging the group to participate in peace talks.


Title: No title found


Title: U.S. air strike kills eight ISIS terrorists in Afghanistan - The Siasat Daily – Archive
Kabul [Afghanistan”>Afghanistan]: At least eight terrorists of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) group’s offshoot, ISIS Khorsan have been killed in an airstrike by the United States forces in eastern Nangarhar province of Afghanistan”>Afghanistan.
The provincial police commandment in a statement said the airstrike was carried out in Nazian district of Nangarhar, the Khaama Press reported.
The air strikes were carried out by the US forces on Monday night in which several weapons, ammunition, and explosives belonging to the terror group were also destroyed, the statement further said.
ISIS-K has not commented on the incident so far.
Earlier this month, at least eleven ISIS-K insurgents were killed in a similar airstrike in the province.
An anti-ISIS as well as anti-Taliban operations are underway to eliminate the presence of ISIS affiliates in Nangarhar province and the U.S. forces are providing airstrikes support to the Afghan forces during the operations. (ANI)

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: Michigan National Guard arrives in Germany to conduct Joint Training with British Armor Unit | Article | The United States Army
By Maj. Charles CalioSeptember 11, 2017
SENNELAGER TRAINING AREA, Germany - Members of C Company, 1st Battalion, 125th Infantry Regiment (1-125IN) of the Michigan Army National Guard, arrived Sept. 10, 2017 at Sennelager Training Area to conduct unit specific, and joint training exercises with members of the United Kingdom's Royal Wessex Yeomanry (RWxY).
"We are excited and honored to have the opportunity to train with our NATO allies, and to learn from their experiences," said Capt. John Roland, commander of C Company. "This is an invaluable training experience for our Soldiers, and I'm confident we will learn a lot from our U.K. counterparts, as well as teach them about American tactics and operations."
The 1-125IN will focus on Expeditionary Deployment Operations as well as Platoon Movement to Contact, Platoon Attack Battle Drills and combined arms maneuver with the RWxY in order to increase interoperability between the two nations for future operations.
The 1-125IN is headquartered in Saginaw, Michigan and is a part of the 37th Infantry Brigade Combat Team located in Ohio. C Company of the 1-125IN is headquartered in Wyoming, Michigan.
The 1-125IN most recently deployed to Afghanistan in 2012, where each company deployed with a security force assistance team to conduct security force missions to secure advising teams during key leader engagements and other meetings with their Afghan National Security Force (ANSF) counterparts. The SFATs partnered, assisted and advised their counterparts initially on operations, rule of law, logistics, training/administration, government/development and maintenance/signal. The other efforts included logistics and human resource operations, with the intent of enabling the ANSF to be self-sustaining to increase their operational capabilities.

Related Link
Related Link
Related Link
Michigan National Guard arrives in Germany to conduct Joint Training with British Armor Unit

Title: Afghanistan Humanitarian Bulletin Issue 67 | 01 – 31 August 2017 - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Highlights
Fighting over control of eight district centres displaced more than 50,000 people in August.
More than two million people have been reached with assistance in the first six months of the year.
Girls and boys across the country are exposed to high levels of violence and often brutal punishments.
Skills taught in youth development centres improve women’s employment prospects and help them break with traditional gender roles.
The number of people targeted for assistance via the Cluster system in 2017 has been reduced from 5.7 to 3.6 million.
Fighting escalates over control of districts
The third week of August has been one of the most active in terms of armed clashes, according to security sources, and the whole month continued a trend of starkly intensified conflict across the country. Fighting between Non-State Armed Groups (NSAGs) and Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) over territorial control increasingly escalated around district centres, usually following attacks by NSAGs on surrounding checkpoints.
In August, NSAG attacked or fought over control of at least eight district centres in seven provinces (see table). From January to end of July, NSAGs had already attacked and taken control of more than a dozen district centres. All but two – Qala-e-Zal, Kunduz, and Sangin, Hilmand – were subsequently retaken by ANSF, often after heavy fighting including the military deploying reinforcements and pounding enemy positions with airstrikes.
Attacks on district centres displaced more than 50,000 people in August
Communities from the whole district often rely on the district centre for important basic services like health care, education or trade and when conflict reaches rural villages the district centres are often also the place where displaced families seek shelter.
When district centres come under attack, the direction of displacement changes and families chose to leave the centres: in August, more than 50,000 people were reportedly temporarily displaced from district centres, often finding shelter with relatives in neighbouring villages.
The high numbers of displaced people from Balamurghab and Ghormach, Badghis, are due to the fact that the defence of both district centres relied mostly on Afghan Local Police (ALP) or local, pro-Government armed groups. Their families fled pre-emptively in fear of retribution and punitive actions, in case the members of the NSAG should gain control.
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:09Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Afghanistan Weekly Field Report (4 - 10 September 2017) [EN/Dari/PS] - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Countrywide Conflict Displacement
From 1 January to 10 September 2017, 229,112 people fled their homes due to conflict, up by more than 5,238 people compared to the previous week. A total of 30 out of 34 provinces continue to record some level of forced displacement.
Central: On 3 September ANSF regained control of Janikhel district of Paktya Province; no civilian displacement was recorded although the health centre was reportedly occupied by ANSF forces in the process temporarily hampering heath service provision – still ongoing. Overall, 12,969 people have been verified as displaced in the Central Region in 2017, representing 5 per cent of the countrywide total.
Northern/North Eastern (NR/NER): More than 4,725 individuals have reportedly been displaced from Chahar Dara district of Kunduz Province to Kunduz city – verification is ongoing. Meanwhile, a second assessment will be carried out by ARCS on IDPs recently displaced in Ghormach District, Faryab Province once access improves. Over 4,417 people have so far been verified as displaced in the province out of an initial 21,000 reported. Since January, 93,517 people have been verified as displaced across these two regions so far in 2017, representing 41 per cent of the overall total.
Eastern: No IDP petitions were received during the past week. Since January, 36,708 displaced people have been assessed in the Eastern Region, 17 per cent of the countrywide total.
Southern/South Eastern: In addition to recent reports of displacement in Lashkargah district, Hilmand Province, some 1,470 individuals were reportedly displaced from nearby Nawae-Barakzaiy district to Lashkargah and an unknown quantity in Garmser district. Meanwhile, in Uruzgan Province, military operations have resulted in reported displacement; 2,954 IDPs have so far been verified. Further, in Kandahar Province, approximately 700 people were displaced within Shahwalikot district due to fighting between government and NSAG forces. Nearly 52,663 people are currently displaced in the Southern and Southeastern regions, 23 per cent of the countrywide total.
Western: No displacement took place last week. A total of 33,255 people are currently displaced in the Western Region. They account for 14.5 per cent of displaced people across the country.
Returnees and Refugees
Some 631 spontaneous returnees and 183 deportees arrived in Afghanistan from Pakistan, according to IOM from 27 August to 9 September. From Iran, 4,709 people returned spontaneously and 9,782 were deported. In total, 329,150 undocumented returnees have returned to Afghanistan in 2017, 84,151 from Pakistan and 244,999 from Iran.
From 2 to 9 September, 96 registered refugees returned to Afghanistan, 51 from Pakistan and 45 from Iran, as reported by UNHCR. Since January, UNHCR has assisted the return of 48,077 Afghan refugees to Afghanistan; 46,976 of them from Pakistan alone.
Natural Disasters
ER: ANDMA reported over 80 damaged houses in Nari district of Kunar Province, following flash floods on 4 September. Some 15 km of road were damaged, 49 livestock lost and 50 acres of agriculture land flooded.
Ongoing Response Activities (please also see page 2)
Since 1 January, 275,874 displaced people received humanitarian assistance. During the last week, more than 2,009 displaced people and undocumented returnees received some form of immediate humanitarian support.
CR: In Kabul City, 18 displaced families (126 IDPs) received AFN 30,000 in the form of multipurpose cash assistance from DRC. In Matun district, Khost Provice, SI assisted 111 families (777 IDPs) with AFN 12,000 per family to meet r health, rent and transportation needs, while IRC will provide AFN 6,000 for non-food needs and OHD will provide a WFP two-month food package. Similarly, 1,260 individuals received a two month WFP food ration in Urgun district of Paktika Province.NR/NER: No response took place during the reporting period.
ER: In Behsud district, Nangarhar Province and Asadabad district, Kunar Province, NRC distributed AFN 30,000 per family, as well as hygiene kits and tents to 79 families (553 IDPs). Meanwhile, DRA/ZOA organized health and hygiene education sessions for 106 returnee individuals in Kuz Kunar district of Kunar Province and distributed 50 hygiene kits to returnee families. Also, 2,900 returnees and IDPs received outpatient services in the Eastern region and 89 children were vaccinated.SR/SER: No response took place during the reporting period.
WR: DRC provided AFN 18,000 to 95 IDP families (665 individuals) in Farah city to cover basic food needs, rent, transport or fuel. In Qala-e-Naw district of Badghis Province, NRC provided AFN 14,000 to 26 families (182 individuals); WFP provided a two-month food ration, IRC provided emergency latrines, chlorination for water points, hygiene kits and purification tablets; UNHCR provided NFI kits and hygiene promotion sessions. The families had been displaced from Qadis, Abkamari, Muqur, Ghormach and Qala-e-Naw outskirts to Qala-e-Naw city in July 2017.
Access Constraints and Security Incidents
SR: Access to Ghormach and Bala Murghab districts of Badghis Province is impeded due to adverse security conditions. ARCS Faryab and Hirat are currently negotiating access.
Pakistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan
Pakistan
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Business News Today: Read Latest Business news, India Business News Live, Share Market & Economy News | The Economic Times
Get only relevant updates on WhatsApp. No Spam.
Learn from the top business gurus.
September 23
India's corporate travel sector, valued at over USD 10.6 billion, is projected to grow at a 10.1% CAGR to USD 20.8 billion by FY30. This gro...
India's electric two-wheeler market is booming, but exports remain minimal. Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari sees potential for India ...
Monthly instalment schemes by jewellers are sustaining gold demand despite high prices. Tanishq, Reliance Jewels, and Senco Gold have seen s...
Vodafone Idea has been directed to pay Rs 50,000 in compensation to a senior citizen for mental harassment due to abrupt disconnection of hi...
Quick commerce is driving growth in grocery shopping, with 31% of Indian shoppers using it for core needs and 39% for top-ups, according to ...
The expo and the conference combined represent the most sought-after event of the Oil & Gas industry that is held every year to bring the in...
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Java Programming with ChatGPT: Learn using Generative AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Basics of Generative AI : Unveiling Tomorrow's Innovations
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Generative AI for Dynamic Java Web Applications with ChatGPT
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Mastering C++ Fundamentals with Generative AI: A Hands-On
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Master in Python Language Quickly Using the ChatGPT Open AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Zero to Hero in Microsoft Excel: Complete Excel guide 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Stock Trading
Market 101: An Insight into Trendlines and Momentum
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Markets 102: Mastering Sentiment Indicators for Swing and Positional Trading
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Market 103: Mastering Trends with RMI and Techno-Funda Insights
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Market 104: Options Trading: Kickstart Your F&O Adventure
By - Saketh R, Founder- QuickAlpha, Full Time Options Trader
Astrology
Vastu Shastra Course
By - Sachenkumar Rai, Vastu Shashtri
Data Science
SQL for Data Science along with Data Analytics and Data Visualization
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Web Development
A Comprehensive ASP.NET Core MVC 6 Project Guide for 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Stock Trading
ROC Made Easy: Master Course for ROC Stock Indicator
By - Souradeep Dey, Equity and Commodity Trader, Trainer
Stock Trading
RSI Made Easy: RSI Trading Course
By - Souradeep Dey, Equity and Commodity Trader, Trainer
Stock Trading
Technical Analysis for Everyone - Technical Analysis Course
By - Abhijit Paul, Technical Research Head, Fund Manager- ICICI Securities
Office Productivity
Mastering Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and 365
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Marketing
Digital marketing - Wordpress Website Development
By - Shraddha Somani, Digital Marketing Trainer, Consultant, Strategiest and Subject Matter expert
Web Development
Mastering Full Stack Development: From Frontend to Backend Excellence
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Finance
Financial Literacy i.e Lets Crack the Billionaire Code
By - CA Rahul Gupta, CA with 10+ years of domain experience, trainer
Stock Trading
Introduction to Technical Analysis & Candlestick Theory
By - Dinesh Nagpal, Full Time Trader, Ichimoku & Trading Psychology Expert
Leadership
Business Storytelling Masterclass
By - Ameen Haque, Founder of Storywallahs
Marketing
Future of Marketing & Branding Masterclass
By - Dr. David Aaker, Professor at Haas School of Business
HR
Human Potential and the Future of Employment
By - Lynda Gratton, Co-chair of the World Economic Forum Council on Work, Wages and Job Creation, Professor of Management Practice
Strategy
ESG and Business Sustainability Strategy
By - Vipul Arora, Partner, ESG & Climate Solutions at Sattva Consulting Author I Speaker I Thought Leader
Stock Trading
Options Trading Course For Beginners
By - Chetan Panchamia, Options Trader
Finance
Financial Reporting and Analytics
By - Dr. C.P. Gupta, Professor: Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi
Stock Trading
Options Scalping Made Easy
By - Sivakumar Jayachandran, Ace Scalper
Stock Trading
Futures Trading Made Easy: Future & Options Trading Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Markets Made Easy
By - elearnmarkets, Financial Education by StockEdge
Stock Trading
Renko Chart Patterns Made Easy
By - Kaushik Akiwatkar, Derivative Trader and Investor
Stock Trading
Options Trading Made Easy: Options Trading Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Investing Made Easy: Beginner's Stock Market Investment Course
By - elearnmarkets, Financial Education by StockEdge
Stock Trading
Macroeconomics Made Easy: Online Certification Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Valuation Made Easy
By - Rounak Gouti, Investment commentary writer
Tuesday, 24 Sep, 2024
Vodafone Idea (Vi) has said it’s now up to the government to come up with a mechanism to offer financial relief to the company, after the Supreme Court’s recent rejection of the telco’s curative petition seeking a re-computation of its adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues.
India’s aspiration to be a $7-trillion economy by the end of the decade can be achieved as a “strong” Prime Minister Narendra Modi rolls out the digital and physical infrastructure that’s drawing multinationals involved in manufacturing advanced products and services, said Jamie Dimon, chairman and CEO, JPMorgan.
This is India’s moment and the country should seize it, Nvidia chief executive Jensen Huang said after a roundtable in New York between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and leading technology industry CEOs. Sundar Pichai, the CEO of Google and its parent Alphabet, said the Prime Minister has a clear vision of the opportunity that artificial intelligence will create, and is challenging top companies to do more in India.
Securing a US student visa is just the beginning for international students. Maintaining it is crucial, as violations like prolonged absence, unauthorized transfer, or fraudulent activities can lead to revocation. Immediate steps include understanding the reason, contacting university services, reapplying or appealing, and seeking legal assistance if necessary.
High net worth Indians are using corporate credit cards for personal expenses during overseas travels to avoid breaching the $250,000 annual limit on foreign remittance. The government may soon implement rules to include international credit card spends under this limit, but distinguishing personal from business expenses remains challenging.
Prodigy Finance has announced a $5,000 scholarship for students pursuing higher education abroad for the Spring 2025 intake. Applications open in September 2024 and close on September 30, 2024. Eligible candidates must be accepted into a Prodigy Finance-supported program and demonstrate academic excellence and community commitment.
Rajinikanth to Mahesh Babu: South Stars Steal The Spotlight at Anant Ambani's Wedding
Explore Goa In The Rains: 10 Must-Do Activities, Places To Visit
Sonakshi Sinha wedding photos out: Actress marries Zaheer Iqbal in civil ceremony
How Four Words from Chiranjeevi Saved Pawan Kalyan's Life
​Mushrooms Can Lower Risk Of A Cancer Diagnosis​​​
What To Eat, What To Avoid During Pregnancy? Follow This ICMR Guide
Want To Live Longer? Watch Your Salt Intake, Advises ICMR
How vegans can get enough protein? What ICMR says
Balakrishna's 5 Controversies. Latest: Actress Anjali Incident
Why These Two Rs 10 Notes Fetched Over Rs 12 Lakhs At Auction?
Magnificent Mango: 5 Beauty Secrets Of This Summer Delight
​Radhika Merchant’s Space Suit Designer For Ambani Pre-Wedding Bash, Has Worked With Jennifer Lopez & Karlie Kloss!​
​Flax Seeds Can Aid In Weight Loss, Improve Gut Heath: Here’s The Best Time To Consume Them​
​NASA Finds 126 Alien Planets! Does This Mean There’s Extraterrestrial Life?​
You Can Enjoy This 5-Day Cruise For Just Rs 5,000. Thanks To Indian Govt
Scandals that destroyed Bollywood celebs' career
​From Vedavid To Vamika, 6 Bollywood Babies With Unique Names​
Blockout 2024: From Taylor Swift To Alia Bhatt, Celebs Are Being Boycotted Online
Gainers & Losers: Vedanta, IEX among 7 stocks in limelight on Tuesday
SIPs in 5 small cap mutual funds multiplied wealth by 100x in 15 years
9 famous street food to try when in Gujarat
8 yoga poses to reduce stubborn waist fat
8 health benefits of having ghee coffee in the morning
9 excellent immunity boosting food for kids
9 chia seeds benefits for skin and hair
These 4 F&O stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest
These 4 stocks closed above VWAP on September 23
These 3 stocks showed RSI Trending up on September 23
Bullish Momentum: These 3 stocks with White Marubozu Pattern on September 23
These 4 stocks closed below VWAP on September 23
At multi-year highs: These 6 stocks witnessed 5-year swing high breakouts
Positive Breakout: ACC among 4 stocks crossed their 200 DMAs
Chia Seeds: Miracle Superfood Or Overhyped Trend
Who Has Chris Martin Dated? A Look At Coldplay Singer's Famous Girlfriends
Gainers & Losers: Vodafone Idea, Indus Towers among 6 stocks in limelight on Monday
7 immunity boosting drinks for weather change
7 high-protein dishes made with chickpeas
7 house plants best suited for bathroom
7 effective morning exercises to lose weight
Gold price up more than 23% in one year; check latest price of gold
7 common mistakes you are doing to lose weight
7 health benefits of drinking haldi doodh everyday at night
7 homemade drinks to boost energy
Tech Mahindra among 3 stocks showing RSI trending up
Cochin Shipyard among 5 stocks with White Marubozu Pattern
These 5 F&O stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest
Finolex Industries and 3 other stocks close below VWAP
Vodafone Idea and 3 other stocks closed above VWAP
Check out these iconic Bonedi Bari Durga Puja in Kolkata
Why your EPF claim may get rejected: Here are 11 reasons
What DonaldTrump promised to accomplish on day one as president
Cancer patients: Tips to go through chemotherapy
Direct Tax Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme 2024: CBDT notifies these rules, forms from October 1, 2024
Oscars 2025: 'Laapataa Ladies' picked as India's entry; how Kiran Rao reacted, top film contenders and other details
India’s first Mpox clade 1 case in Kerala: Symptoms, treatment, risk factors, travel advices and other details
Want to visit the equator? Countries to consider and your budget guide from India
Top 5 flexi-cap funds with up to 28% returns in 3 yrs
Kamala Harris isn't alone! 5 Indian politicians who love to cook and eat
Hot on Web
In Case you missed it
Top Calculators
Top Prime Articles
Top Performing MF
Top Story Listing
Top Commodities
Top Definitions
Top Slideshow
Latest News
Follow us on:

Title: ORF
0results found
ORF © 2024Website Design and Development bySterco Digitex

Title: Here’s why India did the right thing by refusing to send troops to Afghanistan
Author :Manoj Joshi
US President Donald Trump’s decision to stay the course in Afghanistan was welcomed by New Delhi not just because it pinpointed the role Pakistan plays in providing sanctuaries to terrorists targeting India and Afghanistan, but also because a continuation of US boots on the ground allows India to continue to ‘do its job’ on the very same Afghan ground.
India has played a significant role in building state capacity in Afghanistan since 2001 through projects big and small. It did so under the security umbrella provided by the US and the International Security Assistance Force (Isaf). The somewhat precipitate US departure announced by the Obama Administration has seen the return of the Taliban and raised questions about the viability of the Afghan government led by Afghan President Ashraf Ghani.
Now, not only has the US decided that it will stay on, but it has also offered India an enhanced role, though just what it has in mind is not clear. Even so, there are five good reasons to applaud New Delhi’s refusal to commit ground troops in Afghanistan.
First, the ground situation in the country has deteriorated to the point where India’s token entry would make little difference. And New Delhi lacks the ability to make a significant military commitment.
Second, it would trigger a hostile Pakistani reaction, which could include Islamabad targeting Indian for forces using the Haqqani Network.
Third, although India and the US are on the same page on improving the situation in Afghanistan, there is no agreement between them on the Taliban’s role in any reconciliation process that the US hopes to engineer. The US is open to a deal with the Taliban that, as of now, India adamantly opposes.
Fourth, retaining an independent policy in Afghanistan gives India the flexibility to work with the US, Russia and Iran to stabilise the country.
Any move to become part of a US-led effort would alienate the Russians and Iranians, who remain important players in Afghanistan.
Fifth, notwithstanding harsh words at Islamabad, the enhanced US commitment to Afghanistan is likely to increase US reliance on Pakistan. It can also increase the pressure on Washington to re-hyphenate India-Pakistan relations, something that could adversely affect India-US relations.
There would have been some schadenfreude in New Delhi over Islamabad’s reaction were Indian boots to have landed in Afghanistan. But that is a dangerous game. It could provoke Pakistan’s worst instincts and further roil the situation in the Af-Pak region.
India also needs to consider that the US’ record has not been particularly reliable or beneficial for the former. As a superpower, the US has the luxury of taking its ball and leaving the game. Or, for that matter, changing the rules of the game.
Notwithstanding fanciful Pakistani claims, Indian policy in Afghanistan has been prudent and responsible. It has sought to develop Afghanistan State capacity for better governance, rather than participate in a Great Game of Thrones that has wracked the country since the 1980s. Indian projects have ranged from building roads, public buildings and dams, to enhancing community assets like schools to humble culverts, electric supply and minor irrigation works, providing scholarships, medical assistance and technical training to tens of thousands of Afghans.
Not having a significant arms industry, India has paid the Russians to provide equipment like small arms, light artillery and mortars to the Afghans. In addition, it has provided specialised training to the Afghan forces.
The US and Isaf had long denied the ANSF any heavy equipment and aviation assets, so as to not offend Islamabad. The result was that when the US pulled out, the Afghan forces were left bereft of the ability to even defend themselves.
But now the US has changed tack, and the Indians, too, are likely to enhance the quality of their military assistance, a process that should make Kabul happy and Islamabad apoplectic.
New Delhi has its plate full when it comes to foreign policy challenges. It is a moot question as to whether it would like to step up to the plate and take greater responsibility in Afghanistan.
The country is important, but not vital for India’s foreign and security policy in the way, say, Nepal and Sri Lanka are. There is a certain value it offers in keeping Islamabad off balance. But more important is the common interest India has with Washington in ensuring that Afghanistan does not once again become a training ground for terrorists.
This is what has motivated Trump’s renewal of US commitments there. It would be smart for India to continue operating under the US shadow, even while enhancing its role in key areas like intelligence coordination, military training and boosting its commitment to building Afghan state capacity.
The US remains the key geopolitical player in the region, and it is in India’s interest to hold the US close. Qualitatively enhanced India-US cooperation in Afghanistan must also be seen in a holistic perspective of closer India-US ties.
This is required to assist India’s goal of ‘normalising’ Pakistan. And dealing with the challenge of China.
This commentary originally appeared inThe Economic Times.
Manoj Joshi is a Distinguished Fellow at the ORF. He has been a journalist specialising on national and international politics and is a commentator and ...
ORF © 2024Website Design and Development bySterco Digitex

Title: Bone of Contention  |  Newsline
Kamila Shamsie’s Home Fire (her seventh novel, already longlisted for the Man Booker prize a…
Belief in djinns is deeply engrained in the cosmological consciousness of Pakistanis and…
The book under review is a collection of 24 articles with a foreword by Professor…
Pakistan ranks 143 out of 144 countries according to the gender ranking on the…
For Nizamuddin (who goes by his first name only), it is just another day at…
Karachi, Pakistan’s largest metropolis, has the dubious distinction of being dubbed the ‘most dangerous city…
German-born Catholic nun, Dr Ruth Katherina Martha Pfau, affectionately known as ‘Pakistan’s Mother Teresa,’ —…
During his election campaign, President Donald Trump repeatedly demonstrated his alacrity towards burying the hatchet…
The visuals were amazing. There was the police on one side, using water cannons and…
Zahid Hussain Zahid Hussain is a journalist, analyst and author of The Scorpion’s Tale and…
Sarvat Hasin has a deft touch. In the prologue to her debut novel, This Wide…
[caption id="attachment_24369" align="alignnone" width="690"] Marium Saeedullah: ‘Mythical Bird II ’[/caption] Koel Gallery has relocated…
A svelte Kami Choudhry arrives on the dot for her interview with Newsline, dressed…
The Muttahida Qaumi Movement-Pakistan (MQM-P) has been facing tough challenges post-August 22, 2017. How would…
[caption id="attachment_24305" align="alignnone" width="1024"] A Pakistani policeman stands guard at the site of the August…
[caption id="attachment_24253" align="alignnone" width="800"] Leader of the Jamaat-ud-Dawa organisation Hafiz Muhammad Saeed.[/caption] On Sunday, August…
[caption id="attachment_24250" align="alignnone" width="500"] Some of the slain lawyers.[/caption] In the blink of an eye,…
Muttahida Qaumi Movement Pakistan (MQM-P), the fourth largest political force in the country and the…
On Sunday, September 17, 41 days after Nawaz Sharif was ousted from the Prime Minister’s…
The largest energy deal made by Pakistan in recent times was the $20-billion LNG contract…
In recent years, lawyers have time and again demonstrated their ability to get their extra-legal…
For a socially relevant film which is surprisingly low on Bollywood masala, Toilet — Aik…
[caption id="attachment_24214" align="alignnone" width="1024"] A picture dated 02 April 1991 shows Afghan commander Jalaluddin Haqqani…
[caption id="attachment_24215" align="alignnone" width="1024"] Afghan Solidarity members wear masks of Chief Executive Abdullah (L), Afghan…
From the pages and newsreels of history, the film The Viceroy’s House is a…
Photos by the author Vatt is the Sindhi word for ‘edge.’ It is also the…
To celebrate Pakistan’s 70th independence anniversary, on August 12, Alliance Francaise de Karachi organised the…
[caption id="attachment_24183" align="alignnone" width="1024"] Damro Bheel with his children: Refugees in their own country.[/caption] Photos…
[caption id="attachment_24171" align="alignnone" width="1024"] Locals of Gorano at the site where SECMC is dumping its…
In August 2017, three years since Azcorp Entertainment first started publishing original homespun comic books,…
Associating soft drinks with music is starting to become a norm in Pakistan. From…
Every year it seems, everyone’s ‘Sultana Apa’ — President of HUM Network — comes up…
It has taken four years, but it has happened — finally. With nine months to…
Lawyers’ clashes with the subordinate judiciary are becoming increasingly commonplace in Pakistan, Punjab in particular,…
Well-known photojournalist Mobeen Ansari launched his second photography book White in the Flag on the…
ByNewsline Admin|Newsbeat National|Published 7 years ago
A picture dated 02 April 1991 shows Afghan commander Jalaluddin Haqqani (C) at his Pakistani base in Miram Shah with top guerilla commanders.
During the Afghan war against the Soviet occupying forces in the 1980s, the Haqqani network founder, Maulvi Jalaluddin Haqqani, was considered as one of the most effective mujahideen commanders.
Haqqani, who studied at the Darul Uloom Haqqania seminary in Akora Khattak in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa’s Nowshera district, successfully defended his base at Zhawara in Khost province, when the Soviet forces, with the backing of airpower, attacked it for days. Later, in 1991, he led the assault that resulted in the fall of Khost, the first Afghan city captured by the mujahideen after the February 1989 withdrawal of the Red Army. All these years, his family lived in Miranshah, the headquarters of North Waziristan, and later at a nearby village, Danday Darpakhel.
Such was his fame that the CIA was keen to support him during the war and the ISI was aware of his firepower. Influential US Congressman, Charlie Wilson, who lobbied and got millions of dollars assistance to the Afghan mujahideen, reportedly liked him so much that he described him as “goodness personified.”
Despite occasional reports in the media about Haqqani’s death, his family has maintained that he is alive. Even if he is alive, the 78-year old cleric-warrior must be in poor health. His last statement, urging Taliban fighters to continue to resist the US-led foreign forces in Afghanistan, was issued in November 2013, following the assassination of his eldest son, Naseeruddin Haqqani, in Bara Kahu near Islamabad by unknown gunmen. He termed his son a ‘martyr in the path of jihad’ and offered felicitations to the Taliban leadership and fighters on his martyrdom.
When he fell ill, the elder Haqqani passed on the mantle of leadership of the Haqqani network to his second son, Sirajuddin Haqqani, who is now in his late 30s. The US placed a $5 million bounty on his head in 2009. Subsequently, the US announced a hefty reward for informants who could help in the capture of his two brothers, Naseerudding Haqqani and Badruddin Haqqani, both of whom are now dead. Out of the eight Haqqani brothers, four have already been killed in US drone strikes, or in fighting with foreign forces in Afghanistan. Another younger one, Anas Haqqani, is in the custody of the Afghan government after his capture by the US authorities in Bahrain about two years ago, when he was returning from a meeting with Afghan Taliban members in Qatar. Anas Haqqani has been convicted by a court and sentenced to death, but Kabul hasn’t implemented the order so far. The Haqqani network has kidnapped several western teachers, aid workers and tourists in Afghanistan, in a bid to exchange them for the release of Anas Haqqani and some of its other prisoners. It has threatened to exact revenge on a big scale if Anas Haqqani is executed.
The US designated the Haqqani network as a foreign terrorist organisation on September 7, 2012 and imposed sanctions on several of its leaders. It has been alleging that the Haqqanis are being allowed to run their operations from Pakistan and is asking Islamabad to take action against them. Admiral Mike Mullen, the retired chairman of Joint Chiefs of Staff, had once claimed that the Haqqani network was the veritable arm of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). Both the Haqqani network and Pakistan have denied the allegation. Following the Zarb-e-Azb military operations launched in June 2014, Pakistan announced that all militant groups, including the Haqqani network, had been evicted from their strongholds in North Waziristan and most had escaped to neighbouring Afghanistan.
Ironically, the US hasn’t declared the Afghan Taliban group as terrorist, even though the Haqqani network is part of it and the two carry out joint operations. The Haqqani network’s operational commander, Sirajuddin Haqqani, is also the deputy leader of the mainstream Afghan Taliban movement. His nominees were part of the Taliban delegation that held one round of peace talks with the Afghan government in Murree, on July 7, 2015. Moreover, the Haqqani network was part of the prisoners’ swap, between the Taliban and the US, brokered by Qatar more than two years ago. Under the deal, the Haqqani network released the US soldier, Bowe Bergdahl, whom it had captures in exchange for five important Taliban members held for years at Guantanamo. The tag of being a terrorist organisation didn’t stop Kabul and Washington from talking to the Haqqani network and making deals with it.
The strength and capabilities of the Haqqani network are often exaggerated by the Afghan and US governments. If one were to believe Sirajuddin Haqqani, he told this writer during an interview some years ago that his network had about 2,000 fighters. Obviously, he wouldn’t have downplayed his role in the insurgency in Afghanistan and it is possible that he gave a higher figure of his network’s strength in the interview. If true, then his share of fighters is small, considering the fact that the Afghan Taliban claim to have more than 100,000 active fighters. The US estimate of the Taliban’s fighting strength was 25,000 earlier and the updated figure is a bit higher. Making an accurate estimate of the Haqqani network’s actual strength has become difficult in recent years as, unlike in the past, it no longer makes claims about attacks undertaken by its fighters.
Whatever its strength, the Haqqani network is routinely blamed for most of the attacks in Kabul and several other provinces, despite the fact that the Haqqanis belong to Khost province and have a proven presence only in the neighbouring Paktia and Paktika provinces and in Kabul. It was also accused of undertaking an attack inside the Governor’s House in Kandahar last year, in which the UAE ambassador to Afghanistan and six other diplomats and several senior Afghan officials were killed, even though there has been no evidence to-date that the Haqqani network is operating in southwestern Afghanistan, including Kandahar.
However, there were some major attacks that bore the hallmark of the Haqqani network. These include the attacks on the Serena Hotel in Kabul and on Indian diplomatic missions. It may also have helped Jordanian physician Dr Humam Khalil Abu Malal al-Balawi conduct a suicide attack on the CIA station in Khost in 2010, killing seven of its agents.
One of the reasons the Haqqani network is being blamed for most major assaults could be that the US is attempting to justify its decision of declaring it a terrorist organisation and, at the same time, trying to hide the shortcomings in its own security network. Besides, blaming the Haqqani network also means indirectly putting the blame on Pakistan, as the Afghan and US government have been alleging that Islamabad is harbouring its members. The old links between the Haqqanis and certain international militant groups such as Al-Qaeda is another reason why it is singled out for blame and termed as the most pervasive and virulent group that needs to be eliminated.
President Donald Trump’s angry outburst against Pakistan in his August 22 speech also had something to do with Washington’s strong belief that Islamabad had allowed the leadership of the Haqqani network and the Afghan Taliban to make use of Pakistani territory, to wage war against Nato and Afghan forces in Afghanistan. Pakistan categorically denies the existence of safe havens for the Afghan Taliban and the Haqqani network in its territory. It criticises the US for making it the scapegoat for its own failure in enforcing a military solution in Afghanistan over a period of 16 years. As a result, the stage is set for further deterioration in Islamabad-Washington relations. One of the major factors for increased hostility between the two erstwhile allies would be the Haqqani network. n



Copyright © 2024 All Rights reserved by Newsline Magazine.

Title: Suspected US drone strike targets militants in Pakistan | Pakistan – Gulf News
If confirmed, it would be the first strike since Trump outlined a new Afghanistan strategy
Parachinar/Peshawar: A suspected US drone strike killed three people in the tribal area of Pakistan near the Afghanistan border on Friday, a senior regional official said, in what Afghan Taliban sources say was an attack targeting a Haqqani network militant.
If confirmed, it would be the first US drone strike inside Pakistan since President Donald Trump outlined a new Afghanistan strategy and pushed Islamabad to take greater action against Pakistan-based Haqqani militants who are allied to the Afghan Taliban.
Baseer Khan Wazir, the political agent and the most senior administrator in the Kurram Agency region in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA), said the drone strike took place close to the border with Afghanistan.
“Two missiles were dropped on the home of Maulvi Mohib and three people have been killed,” Wazir said.
A spokesman for the US-led international force in Kabul had no immediate information on the report but said he would look into it.
Two Afghan Taliban sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Mohib was affiliated with the Haqqani network.
“He remained associated with the Haqqani network but wasn’t a prominent figure,” said one senior Taliban member.
A second commander confirmed that Mohib was part of the Afghan Taliban: “We don’t differentiate the Haqqani network and Taliban. This is just a propaganda of the western media,” he said.
US officials in Washington are currently discussing what measures to take if Pakistan continues to turn a blind eye to Haqqani militants operating on its soil. Pakistan denies there are any militant havens inside the nuclear-armed nation.
Analysts have been predicting an increase in drone attacks inside Pakistan ever since Trump came into power, but since January there have only been a few.
Another option being weighed by Washington, according to US officials, is targeted sanctions against Pakistani officials with links to extremist groups such as the Haqqani network.
But Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi said on Monday that such a move would be counter-productive, hurting both countries’ fight against militancy.
GetBreaking NewsAlerts From Gulf News
We’ll send you latest news updates through the day. You can manage them any time by clicking on the notification icon.

Title: Suspected US drone strike targets militants in Pakistan | Pakistan – Gulf News
If confirmed, it would be the first strike since Trump outlined a new Afghanistan strategy
Parachinar/Peshawar: A suspected US drone strike killed three people in the tribal area of Pakistan near the Afghanistan border on Friday, a senior regional official said, in what Afghan Taliban sources say was an attack targeting a Haqqani network militant.
If confirmed, it would be the first US drone strike inside Pakistan since President Donald Trump outlined a new Afghanistan strategy and pushed Islamabad to take greater action against Pakistan-based Haqqani militants who are allied to the Afghan Taliban.
Baseer Khan Wazir, the political agent and the most senior administrator in the Kurram Agency region in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA), said the drone strike took place close to the border with Afghanistan.
“Two missiles were dropped on the home of Maulvi Mohib and three people have been killed,” Wazir said.
A spokesman for the US-led international force in Kabul had no immediate information on the report but said he would look into it.
Two Afghan Taliban sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Mohib was affiliated with the Haqqani network.
“He remained associated with the Haqqani network but wasn’t a prominent figure,” said one senior Taliban member.
A second commander confirmed that Mohib was part of the Afghan Taliban: “We don’t differentiate the Haqqani network and Taliban. This is just a propaganda of the western media,” he said.
US officials in Washington are currently discussing what measures to take if Pakistan continues to turn a blind eye to Haqqani militants operating on its soil. Pakistan denies there are any militant havens inside the nuclear-armed nation.
Analysts have been predicting an increase in drone attacks inside Pakistan ever since Trump came into power, but since January there have only been a few.
Another option being weighed by Washington, according to US officials, is targeted sanctions against Pakistani officials with links to extremist groups such as the Haqqani network.
But Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi said on Monday that such a move would be counter-productive, hurting both countries’ fight against militancy.
GetBreaking NewsAlerts From Gulf News
We’ll send you latest news updates through the day. You can manage them any time by clicking on the notification icon.

Title: Suspected U.S. drone strike targets militants in Pakistan - EgyptToday
BY
Reuters
-
Fri, 15 Sep 2017 - 12:42 GMT
BY
Reuters
Fri, 15 Sep 2017 - 12:42 GMT
Pakistan's Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi speaks with a Reuters correspondent during an interview at his office in Islamabad, Pakistan September 11, 2017. REUTERS
Comments
Leave a Comment
Be Social
© 2020 All rights reserved toEgypttoday
Designed and developed by

Title: US drone attack kills 3 in Pakistan’s tribal region
WORLDWEST ASIAASIA-PACIFICAFRICAUSEUROPEUKAMERICASSOCIETYARTSSPORTSCONVERSATIONS
IRANPOLITICSECONOMYENERGYNUCLEAR ENERGYCULTUREDEFENSESPORTSDEFINITIVE REVENGEPEOPLE'S PRESIDENT
SHOWS10 MINUTESAFRICA TODAYECONOMIC DIVIDEFACE TO FACEIN A NUTSHELLHIDDEN FILESIRANIRAN TECHIRAN TODAYMIDEASTREAMPALESTINE DECLASSIFIEDSPOTLIGHTEYE ON ISLAMBLACK AND WHITETHE CONVERSATIONISRAEL WATCHBROADCAST THE WEBEXPOSÉEXPLAINERHAVE IT OUT WITH GALLOWAY!SOBH
#
A US drone strike has killed three people in the tribal area of Pakistan near the Afghanistan border.
“Two missiles were dropped on the home of Maulvi Mohib and three people have been killed,” said Baseer Khan Wazir on Friday. Wazir is the political agent and the most senior administrator in the Kurram Agency region in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) of Pakistan.
Afghan Taliban sources said the attack targeted Pakistan-based Haqqani militants who are allied to the Taliban militants in Afghanistan.
Two sources said Mohib was affiliated with Haqqani. “He remained associated with the Haqqani network but wasn’t a prominent figure,” said one senior Taliban member.
Another Taliban member, whose name was not mentioned in the report either, said Mohib was part of the Afghan Taliban. "We don’t differentiate the Haqqani network and Taliban. This is just a propaganda of the Western media."
The US-led international forces in Afghanistan had no immediate information on the strike.
The United States carries out internationally-condemned extrajudicial drone strikes in several Islamic countries including Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq, Yemen, Somalia, and Libya.
If confirmed, it would be the first US drone strike inside Pakistan since President Donald Trump outlined his new Afghanistan strategy.
The US president unveiled his administration’s new strategy in Afghanistan last month. He said he would prolong US military intervention in Afghanistan, ordering added forces in the region.
US officials have urged the neighboring Pakistani government to crack down on Haqqani militants operating in Pakistan. Islamabad, however, denies there are any militants on its side.
Observers predicted an increase in US drone attacks inside Pakistan when Trump came into power, but since January there have only been a few.
Another option being weighed by Washington, according to US officials, is targeted sanctions against Pakistani officials with links to extremist groups such as Haqqani.
Pakistani Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi, however, told Reuters on Monday that such a move would be counterproductive.
Trump, who had initially called for the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan, argued that his "original instinct was to pull out," but that he was convinced by his national security team to take on the militants there.
The United States, under the presidency of Republican George W. Bush, and its allies invaded Afghanistan on October 7, 2001 as part of Washington’s so-called war on terror. Insecurity remains in the country despite the presence of foreign troops.
Press TV’s website can also be accessed at the following alternate addresses:
www.presstv.co.uk
IOS :
1. Click the "share" button in the bottom bar
2. Select the "Add to home screen" option
3. Click "Add" at the top
ANDROID :
1. Click the "..." button
2. Select the "Add to home screen" option
Ok!

Title: US drone attack kills 3 in Pakistan’s tribal region
WORLDWEST ASIAASIA-PACIFICAFRICAUSEUROPEUKAMERICASSOCIETYARTSSPORTSCONVERSATIONS
IRANPOLITICSECONOMYENERGYNUCLEAR ENERGYCULTUREDEFENSESPORTSDEFINITIVE REVENGEPEOPLE'S PRESIDENT
SHOWS10 MINUTESAFRICA TODAYECONOMIC DIVIDEFACE TO FACEIN A NUTSHELLHIDDEN FILESIRANIRAN TECHIRAN TODAYMIDEASTREAMPALESTINE DECLASSIFIEDSPOTLIGHTEYE ON ISLAMBLACK AND WHITETHE CONVERSATIONISRAEL WATCHBROADCAST THE WEBEXPOSÉEXPLAINERHAVE IT OUT WITH GALLOWAY!SOBH
#
A US drone strike has killed three people in the tribal area of Pakistan near the Afghanistan border.
“Two missiles were dropped on the home of Maulvi Mohib and three people have been killed,” said Baseer Khan Wazir on Friday. Wazir is the political agent and the most senior administrator in the Kurram Agency region in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) of Pakistan.
Afghan Taliban sources said the attack targeted Pakistan-based Haqqani militants who are allied to the Taliban militants in Afghanistan.
Two sources said Mohib was affiliated with Haqqani. “He remained associated with the Haqqani network but wasn’t a prominent figure,” said one senior Taliban member.
Another Taliban member, whose name was not mentioned in the report either, said Mohib was part of the Afghan Taliban. "We don’t differentiate the Haqqani network and Taliban. This is just a propaganda of the Western media."
The US-led international forces in Afghanistan had no immediate information on the strike.
The United States carries out internationally-condemned extrajudicial drone strikes in several Islamic countries including Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq, Yemen, Somalia, and Libya.
If confirmed, it would be the first US drone strike inside Pakistan since President Donald Trump outlined his new Afghanistan strategy.
The US president unveiled his administration’s new strategy in Afghanistan last month. He said he would prolong US military intervention in Afghanistan, ordering added forces in the region.
US officials have urged the neighboring Pakistani government to crack down on Haqqani militants operating in Pakistan. Islamabad, however, denies there are any militants on its side.
Observers predicted an increase in US drone attacks inside Pakistan when Trump came into power, but since January there have only been a few.
Another option being weighed by Washington, according to US officials, is targeted sanctions against Pakistani officials with links to extremist groups such as Haqqani.
Pakistani Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi, however, told Reuters on Monday that such a move would be counterproductive.
Trump, who had initially called for the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan, argued that his "original instinct was to pull out," but that he was convinced by his national security team to take on the militants there.
The United States, under the presidency of Republican George W. Bush, and its allies invaded Afghanistan on October 7, 2001 as part of Washington’s so-called war on terror. Insecurity remains in the country despite the presence of foreign troops.
Press TV’s website can also be accessed at the following alternate addresses:
www.presstv.co.uk
IOS :
1. Click the "share" button in the bottom bar
2. Select the "Add to home screen" option
3. Click "Add" at the top
ANDROID :
1. Click the "..." button
2. Select the "Add to home screen" option
Ok!