Title: Back on track?
US President Donald Trump, on a surprise Thanksgiving trip to Afghanistan on November 28, announced that the stalled talks with the Afghan Taliban are back on track. Speaking to the US troops at the Bagram Airbase, Trump demanded a ceasefire from the Taliban to resume peace talks. Trump’s announcement has created more confusion about the current US policy on Afghanistan.Over and above demanding a ceasefire from the Taliban, Trump remarked, “We’re going to stay until such time as we have a deal, or we have total victory.” This is in sharp contrast to his own announcement in the same speech to reduce the number of US troops in Afghanistan to 8,600 from 1,200 to 1,300.In October, the Resolute Support Mission commander general, Austin Scott Miller, revealed that the US withdrew 2,000 troops from Afghanistan in 2019. A consensus exists among all the stakeholders that there is no military solution to end the 18-year war in Afghanistan and a politically negotiated settlement in the only viable option.Trump’s bold remarks at the Thanksgiving address caught the US diplomats involved in backdoor diplomacy to revive the stalled peace process with the Taliban by surprise. Such a demand has not been part of unofficial meetings with the Taliban. This constitutes a major shift in the current US position on Afghanistan and requires a significant concession from the Taliban. By changing the Afghan goalpost yet again, Trump has made the job of his chief negotiator Zalmay Khalilzad more difficult.The Afghan Taliban’s stance on a ceasefire remains unchanged. Reacting to Trump’s announcement, a member of Taliban’ Qatar Office Suhail Shaheen said, “The Americans walked away from the negotiating table, and now the ball is on their side – it is up to them to come back if they want to solve this and get the document to signing and to the stage of implementation.”It remains to be seen how the American diplomats muddle through these confusing policy iterations by President Trump and bring clarity on the issue. This practically nullifies the two prisoner-swaps in the recent past between the US and the Taliban as confidence-building measures to revive talks. In September, Trump abruptly cancelled a secret signing ceremony with the Taliban at the Camp David presidential retreat despite agreeing to a draft agreement.Since coming to power, this is the third time Trump has shifted his position on Afghanistan. In his election campaign, he promised to withdraw the US troops immediately if he was voted to power and end the longest war in American history. However, his South Asia policy announced in August 2017 was a complete departure from his pre-election stance on Afghanistan.Trump’s South Asia policy adopted a hard line towards Pakistan along with following a condition-based approach in Afghanistan as opposed to a calendar-driven policy. This policy gave more powers to US military commanders on the ground and curtailed the US State Department’s clout in Afghan policy. In 2018, however, Trump changed his stance again and reached out to the Taliban’s Qatar office through Zalmay Khalilzad and the balance of US’ Afghan policy swung back in favour of the State Department.The latest somersault by Trump sums up the inconsistency of the US approach to Afghanistan. Such inconsistent polices and confusing messaging have generated hedging attitudes from the regional states on Afghanistan. By indicating that the US will withdraw from Afghanistan in his Thanksgiving address, Trump has eroded any semblance of leverage the US had on the Taliban. It is unclear how Trump will achieve a complete victory over the Taliban or force them to a ceasefire when the US is reducing its troops in Afghanistan.For Pakistan, which has high stakes in Afghanistan and is directly involved in peace talks as a facilitator, difficulties are likely to multiply if Trump sticks to his demand. The Taliban are unlikely to fulfil this demand. It will be difficult for the top Taliban leadership to convince their fighters and military commanders in the battlefield to agree to a ceasefire as a pre-condition. Given that the Taliban have an upper hand in the battlefield, they will prefer fighting than obliging Trump with a ceasefire.At the same time, the US has endorsed Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s position by demanding a ceasefire prior to resuming talks. The condition of ceasefire was mentioned by Ghani in his seven-point peace plan for Afghanistan in September. By agreeing to prisoner exchanges, Ghani seems to have won Trump’s vote of confidence. The fact that Dr Abdullah Abdullah’s supporters were protesting in Kabul against election fraud when Trump was meeting Ghani at the Bagram airbase is a clear indicator that Ghani is likely to continue as the president.As things stand in Afghanistan, it will be unsurprising if Trump withdraws from Afghanistan out of frustration and disappointment. The Pentagon has already prepared contingency plans if Trump announces a sudden withdrawal without a peace deal. Trump’s thanksgiving address has added more uncertainty to the already volatile situation in Afghanistan. Things are back to pre-prisoner swaps, and fresh diplomatic efforts would be needed to remove confusions in order to move forward.The writer is a research fellow at theS Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Singapore.Email: isabasit@ntu.edu.sg
Over and above demanding a ceasefire from the Taliban, Trump remarked, “We’re going to stay until such time as we have a deal, or we have total victory.” This is in sharp contrast to his own announcement in the same speech to reduce the number of US troops in Afghanistan to 8,600 from 1,200 to 1,300.In October, the Resolute Support Mission commander general, Austin Scott Miller, revealed that the US withdrew 2,000 troops from Afghanistan in 2019. A consensus exists among all the stakeholders that there is no military solution to end the 18-year war in Afghanistan and a politically negotiated settlement in the only viable option.Trump’s bold remarks at the Thanksgiving address caught the US diplomats involved in backdoor diplomacy to revive the stalled peace process with the Taliban by surprise. Such a demand has not been part of unofficial meetings with the Taliban. This constitutes a major shift in the current US position on Afghanistan and requires a significant concession from the Taliban. By changing the Afghan goalpost yet again, Trump has made the job of his chief negotiator Zalmay Khalilzad more difficult.The Afghan Taliban’s stance on a ceasefire remains unchanged. Reacting to Trump’s announcement, a member of Taliban’ Qatar Office Suhail Shaheen said, “The Americans walked away from the negotiating table, and now the ball is on their side – it is up to them to come back if they want to solve this and get the document to signing and to the stage of implementation.”It remains to be seen how the American diplomats muddle through these confusing policy iterations by President Trump and bring clarity on the issue. This practically nullifies the two prisoner-swaps in the recent past between the US and the Taliban as confidence-building measures to revive talks. In September, Trump abruptly cancelled a secret signing ceremony with the Taliban at the Camp David presidential retreat despite agreeing to a draft agreement.Since coming to power, this is the third time Trump has shifted his position on Afghanistan. In his election campaign, he promised to withdraw the US troops immediately if he was voted to power and end the longest war in American history. However, his South Asia policy announced in August 2017 was a complete departure from his pre-election stance on Afghanistan.Trump’s South Asia policy adopted a hard line towards Pakistan along with following a condition-based approach in Afghanistan as opposed to a calendar-driven policy. This policy gave more powers to US military commanders on the ground and curtailed the US State Department’s clout in Afghan policy. In 2018, however, Trump changed his stance again and reached out to the Taliban’s Qatar office through Zalmay Khalilzad and the balance of US’ Afghan policy swung back in favour of the State Department.The latest somersault by Trump sums up the inconsistency of the US approach to Afghanistan. Such inconsistent polices and confusing messaging have generated hedging attitudes from the regional states on Afghanistan. By indicating that the US will withdraw from Afghanistan in his Thanksgiving address, Trump has eroded any semblance of leverage the US had on the Taliban. It is unclear how Trump will achieve a complete victory over the Taliban or force them to a ceasefire when the US is reducing its troops in Afghanistan.For Pakistan, which has high stakes in Afghanistan and is directly involved in peace talks as a facilitator, difficulties are likely to multiply if Trump sticks to his demand. The Taliban are unlikely to fulfil this demand. It will be difficult for the top Taliban leadership to convince their fighters and military commanders in the battlefield to agree to a ceasefire as a pre-condition. Given that the Taliban have an upper hand in the battlefield, they will prefer fighting than obliging Trump with a ceasefire.At the same time, the US has endorsed Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s position by demanding a ceasefire prior to resuming talks. The condition of ceasefire was mentioned by Ghani in his seven-point peace plan for Afghanistan in September. By agreeing to prisoner exchanges, Ghani seems to have won Trump’s vote of confidence. The fact that Dr Abdullah Abdullah’s supporters were protesting in Kabul against election fraud when Trump was meeting Ghani at the Bagram airbase is a clear indicator that Ghani is likely to continue as the president.As things stand in Afghanistan, it will be unsurprising if Trump withdraws from Afghanistan out of frustration and disappointment. The Pentagon has already prepared contingency plans if Trump announces a sudden withdrawal without a peace deal. Trump’s thanksgiving address has added more uncertainty to the already volatile situation in Afghanistan. Things are back to pre-prisoner swaps, and fresh diplomatic efforts would be needed to remove confusions in order to move forward.The writer is a research fellow at theS Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Singapore.Email: isabasit@ntu.edu.sg
In October, the Resolute Support Mission commander general, Austin Scott Miller, revealed that the US withdrew 2,000 troops from Afghanistan in 2019. A consensus exists among all the stakeholders that there is no military solution to end the 18-year war in Afghanistan and a politically negotiated settlement in the only viable option.Trump’s bold remarks at the Thanksgiving address caught the US diplomats involved in backdoor diplomacy to revive the stalled peace process with the Taliban by surprise. Such a demand has not been part of unofficial meetings with the Taliban. This constitutes a major shift in the current US position on Afghanistan and requires a significant concession from the Taliban. By changing the Afghan goalpost yet again, Trump has made the job of his chief negotiator Zalmay Khalilzad more difficult.The Afghan Taliban’s stance on a ceasefire remains unchanged. Reacting to Trump’s announcement, a member of Taliban’ Qatar Office Suhail Shaheen said, “The Americans walked away from the negotiating table, and now the ball is on their side – it is up to them to come back if they want to solve this and get the document to signing and to the stage of implementation.”It remains to be seen how the American diplomats muddle through these confusing policy iterations by President Trump and bring clarity on the issue. This practically nullifies the two prisoner-swaps in the recent past between the US and the Taliban as confidence-building measures to revive talks. In September, Trump abruptly cancelled a secret signing ceremony with the Taliban at the Camp David presidential retreat despite agreeing to a draft agreement.Since coming to power, this is the third time Trump has shifted his position on Afghanistan. In his election campaign, he promised to withdraw the US troops immediately if he was voted to power and end the longest war in American history. However, his South Asia policy announced in August 2017 was a complete departure from his pre-election stance on Afghanistan.Trump’s South Asia policy adopted a hard line towards Pakistan along with following a condition-based approach in Afghanistan as opposed to a calendar-driven policy. This policy gave more powers to US military commanders on the ground and curtailed the US State Department’s clout in Afghan policy. In 2018, however, Trump changed his stance again and reached out to the Taliban’s Qatar office through Zalmay Khalilzad and the balance of US’ Afghan policy swung back in favour of the State Department.The latest somersault by Trump sums up the inconsistency of the US approach to Afghanistan. Such inconsistent polices and confusing messaging have generated hedging attitudes from the regional states on Afghanistan. By indicating that the US will withdraw from Afghanistan in his Thanksgiving address, Trump has eroded any semblance of leverage the US had on the Taliban. It is unclear how Trump will achieve a complete victory over the Taliban or force them to a ceasefire when the US is reducing its troops in Afghanistan.For Pakistan, which has high stakes in Afghanistan and is directly involved in peace talks as a facilitator, difficulties are likely to multiply if Trump sticks to his demand. The Taliban are unlikely to fulfil this demand. It will be difficult for the top Taliban leadership to convince their fighters and military commanders in the battlefield to agree to a ceasefire as a pre-condition. Given that the Taliban have an upper hand in the battlefield, they will prefer fighting than obliging Trump with a ceasefire.At the same time, the US has endorsed Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s position by demanding a ceasefire prior to resuming talks. The condition of ceasefire was mentioned by Ghani in his seven-point peace plan for Afghanistan in September. By agreeing to prisoner exchanges, Ghani seems to have won Trump’s vote of confidence. The fact that Dr Abdullah Abdullah’s supporters were protesting in Kabul against election fraud when Trump was meeting Ghani at the Bagram airbase is a clear indicator that Ghani is likely to continue as the president.As things stand in Afghanistan, it will be unsurprising if Trump withdraws from Afghanistan out of frustration and disappointment. The Pentagon has already prepared contingency plans if Trump announces a sudden withdrawal without a peace deal. Trump’s thanksgiving address has added more uncertainty to the already volatile situation in Afghanistan. Things are back to pre-prisoner swaps, and fresh diplomatic efforts would be needed to remove confusions in order to move forward.The writer is a research fellow at theS Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Singapore.Email: isabasit@ntu.edu.sg
Trump’s bold remarks at the Thanksgiving address caught the US diplomats involved in backdoor diplomacy to revive the stalled peace process with the Taliban by surprise. Such a demand has not been part of unofficial meetings with the Taliban. This constitutes a major shift in the current US position on Afghanistan and requires a significant concession from the Taliban. By changing the Afghan goalpost yet again, Trump has made the job of his chief negotiator Zalmay Khalilzad more difficult.The Afghan Taliban’s stance on a ceasefire remains unchanged. Reacting to Trump’s announcement, a member of Taliban’ Qatar Office Suhail Shaheen said, “The Americans walked away from the negotiating table, and now the ball is on their side – it is up to them to come back if they want to solve this and get the document to signing and to the stage of implementation.”It remains to be seen how the American diplomats muddle through these confusing policy iterations by President Trump and bring clarity on the issue. This practically nullifies the two prisoner-swaps in the recent past between the US and the Taliban as confidence-building measures to revive talks. In September, Trump abruptly cancelled a secret signing ceremony with the Taliban at the Camp David presidential retreat despite agreeing to a draft agreement.Since coming to power, this is the third time Trump has shifted his position on Afghanistan. In his election campaign, he promised to withdraw the US troops immediately if he was voted to power and end the longest war in American history. However, his South Asia policy announced in August 2017 was a complete departure from his pre-election stance on Afghanistan.Trump’s South Asia policy adopted a hard line towards Pakistan along with following a condition-based approach in Afghanistan as opposed to a calendar-driven policy. This policy gave more powers to US military commanders on the ground and curtailed the US State Department’s clout in Afghan policy. In 2018, however, Trump changed his stance again and reached out to the Taliban’s Qatar office through Zalmay Khalilzad and the balance of US’ Afghan policy swung back in favour of the State Department.The latest somersault by Trump sums up the inconsistency of the US approach to Afghanistan. Such inconsistent polices and confusing messaging have generated hedging attitudes from the regional states on Afghanistan. By indicating that the US will withdraw from Afghanistan in his Thanksgiving address, Trump has eroded any semblance of leverage the US had on the Taliban. It is unclear how Trump will achieve a complete victory over the Taliban or force them to a ceasefire when the US is reducing its troops in Afghanistan.For Pakistan, which has high stakes in Afghanistan and is directly involved in peace talks as a facilitator, difficulties are likely to multiply if Trump sticks to his demand. The Taliban are unlikely to fulfil this demand. It will be difficult for the top Taliban leadership to convince their fighters and military commanders in the battlefield to agree to a ceasefire as a pre-condition. Given that the Taliban have an upper hand in the battlefield, they will prefer fighting than obliging Trump with a ceasefire.At the same time, the US has endorsed Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s position by demanding a ceasefire prior to resuming talks. The condition of ceasefire was mentioned by Ghani in his seven-point peace plan for Afghanistan in September. By agreeing to prisoner exchanges, Ghani seems to have won Trump’s vote of confidence. The fact that Dr Abdullah Abdullah’s supporters were protesting in Kabul against election fraud when Trump was meeting Ghani at the Bagram airbase is a clear indicator that Ghani is likely to continue as the president.As things stand in Afghanistan, it will be unsurprising if Trump withdraws from Afghanistan out of frustration and disappointment. The Pentagon has already prepared contingency plans if Trump announces a sudden withdrawal without a peace deal. Trump’s thanksgiving address has added more uncertainty to the already volatile situation in Afghanistan. Things are back to pre-prisoner swaps, and fresh diplomatic efforts would be needed to remove confusions in order to move forward.The writer is a research fellow at theS Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Singapore.Email: isabasit@ntu.edu.sg
The Afghan Taliban’s stance on a ceasefire remains unchanged. Reacting to Trump’s announcement, a member of Taliban’ Qatar Office Suhail Shaheen said, “The Americans walked away from the negotiating table, and now the ball is on their side – it is up to them to come back if they want to solve this and get the document to signing and to the stage of implementation.”It remains to be seen how the American diplomats muddle through these confusing policy iterations by President Trump and bring clarity on the issue. This practically nullifies the two prisoner-swaps in the recent past between the US and the Taliban as confidence-building measures to revive talks. In September, Trump abruptly cancelled a secret signing ceremony with the Taliban at the Camp David presidential retreat despite agreeing to a draft agreement.Since coming to power, this is the third time Trump has shifted his position on Afghanistan. In his election campaign, he promised to withdraw the US troops immediately if he was voted to power and end the longest war in American history. However, his South Asia policy announced in August 2017 was a complete departure from his pre-election stance on Afghanistan.Trump’s South Asia policy adopted a hard line towards Pakistan along with following a condition-based approach in Afghanistan as opposed to a calendar-driven policy. This policy gave more powers to US military commanders on the ground and curtailed the US State Department’s clout in Afghan policy. In 2018, however, Trump changed his stance again and reached out to the Taliban’s Qatar office through Zalmay Khalilzad and the balance of US’ Afghan policy swung back in favour of the State Department.The latest somersault by Trump sums up the inconsistency of the US approach to Afghanistan. Such inconsistent polices and confusing messaging have generated hedging attitudes from the regional states on Afghanistan. By indicating that the US will withdraw from Afghanistan in his Thanksgiving address, Trump has eroded any semblance of leverage the US had on the Taliban. It is unclear how Trump will achieve a complete victory over the Taliban or force them to a ceasefire when the US is reducing its troops in Afghanistan.For Pakistan, which has high stakes in Afghanistan and is directly involved in peace talks as a facilitator, difficulties are likely to multiply if Trump sticks to his demand. The Taliban are unlikely to fulfil this demand. It will be difficult for the top Taliban leadership to convince their fighters and military commanders in the battlefield to agree to a ceasefire as a pre-condition. Given that the Taliban have an upper hand in the battlefield, they will prefer fighting than obliging Trump with a ceasefire.At the same time, the US has endorsed Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s position by demanding a ceasefire prior to resuming talks. The condition of ceasefire was mentioned by Ghani in his seven-point peace plan for Afghanistan in September. By agreeing to prisoner exchanges, Ghani seems to have won Trump’s vote of confidence. The fact that Dr Abdullah Abdullah’s supporters were protesting in Kabul against election fraud when Trump was meeting Ghani at the Bagram airbase is a clear indicator that Ghani is likely to continue as the president.As things stand in Afghanistan, it will be unsurprising if Trump withdraws from Afghanistan out of frustration and disappointment. The Pentagon has already prepared contingency plans if Trump announces a sudden withdrawal without a peace deal. Trump’s thanksgiving address has added more uncertainty to the already volatile situation in Afghanistan. Things are back to pre-prisoner swaps, and fresh diplomatic efforts would be needed to remove confusions in order to move forward.The writer is a research fellow at theS Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Singapore.Email: isabasit@ntu.edu.sg
It remains to be seen how the American diplomats muddle through these confusing policy iterations by President Trump and bring clarity on the issue. This practically nullifies the two prisoner-swaps in the recent past between the US and the Taliban as confidence-building measures to revive talks. In September, Trump abruptly cancelled a secret signing ceremony with the Taliban at the Camp David presidential retreat despite agreeing to a draft agreement.Since coming to power, this is the third time Trump has shifted his position on Afghanistan. In his election campaign, he promised to withdraw the US troops immediately if he was voted to power and end the longest war in American history. However, his South Asia policy announced in August 2017 was a complete departure from his pre-election stance on Afghanistan.Trump’s South Asia policy adopted a hard line towards Pakistan along with following a condition-based approach in Afghanistan as opposed to a calendar-driven policy. This policy gave more powers to US military commanders on the ground and curtailed the US State Department’s clout in Afghan policy. In 2018, however, Trump changed his stance again and reached out to the Taliban’s Qatar office through Zalmay Khalilzad and the balance of US’ Afghan policy swung back in favour of the State Department.The latest somersault by Trump sums up the inconsistency of the US approach to Afghanistan. Such inconsistent polices and confusing messaging have generated hedging attitudes from the regional states on Afghanistan. By indicating that the US will withdraw from Afghanistan in his Thanksgiving address, Trump has eroded any semblance of leverage the US had on the Taliban. It is unclear how Trump will achieve a complete victory over the Taliban or force them to a ceasefire when the US is reducing its troops in Afghanistan.For Pakistan, which has high stakes in Afghanistan and is directly involved in peace talks as a facilitator, difficulties are likely to multiply if Trump sticks to his demand. The Taliban are unlikely to fulfil this demand. It will be difficult for the top Taliban leadership to convince their fighters and military commanders in the battlefield to agree to a ceasefire as a pre-condition. Given that the Taliban have an upper hand in the battlefield, they will prefer fighting than obliging Trump with a ceasefire.At the same time, the US has endorsed Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s position by demanding a ceasefire prior to resuming talks. The condition of ceasefire was mentioned by Ghani in his seven-point peace plan for Afghanistan in September. By agreeing to prisoner exchanges, Ghani seems to have won Trump’s vote of confidence. The fact that Dr Abdullah Abdullah’s supporters were protesting in Kabul against election fraud when Trump was meeting Ghani at the Bagram airbase is a clear indicator that Ghani is likely to continue as the president.As things stand in Afghanistan, it will be unsurprising if Trump withdraws from Afghanistan out of frustration and disappointment. The Pentagon has already prepared contingency plans if Trump announces a sudden withdrawal without a peace deal. Trump’s thanksgiving address has added more uncertainty to the already volatile situation in Afghanistan. Things are back to pre-prisoner swaps, and fresh diplomatic efforts would be needed to remove confusions in order to move forward.The writer is a research fellow at theS Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Singapore.Email: isabasit@ntu.edu.sg
Since coming to power, this is the third time Trump has shifted his position on Afghanistan. In his election campaign, he promised to withdraw the US troops immediately if he was voted to power and end the longest war in American history. However, his South Asia policy announced in August 2017 was a complete departure from his pre-election stance on Afghanistan.Trump’s South Asia policy adopted a hard line towards Pakistan along with following a condition-based approach in Afghanistan as opposed to a calendar-driven policy. This policy gave more powers to US military commanders on the ground and curtailed the US State Department’s clout in Afghan policy. In 2018, however, Trump changed his stance again and reached out to the Taliban’s Qatar office through Zalmay Khalilzad and the balance of US’ Afghan policy swung back in favour of the State Department.The latest somersault by Trump sums up the inconsistency of the US approach to Afghanistan. Such inconsistent polices and confusing messaging have generated hedging attitudes from the regional states on Afghanistan. By indicating that the US will withdraw from Afghanistan in his Thanksgiving address, Trump has eroded any semblance of leverage the US had on the Taliban. It is unclear how Trump will achieve a complete victory over the Taliban or force them to a ceasefire when the US is reducing its troops in Afghanistan.For Pakistan, which has high stakes in Afghanistan and is directly involved in peace talks as a facilitator, difficulties are likely to multiply if Trump sticks to his demand. The Taliban are unlikely to fulfil this demand. It will be difficult for the top Taliban leadership to convince their fighters and military commanders in the battlefield to agree to a ceasefire as a pre-condition. Given that the Taliban have an upper hand in the battlefield, they will prefer fighting than obliging Trump with a ceasefire.At the same time, the US has endorsed Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s position by demanding a ceasefire prior to resuming talks. The condition of ceasefire was mentioned by Ghani in his seven-point peace plan for Afghanistan in September. By agreeing to prisoner exchanges, Ghani seems to have won Trump’s vote of confidence. The fact that Dr Abdullah Abdullah’s supporters were protesting in Kabul against election fraud when Trump was meeting Ghani at the Bagram airbase is a clear indicator that Ghani is likely to continue as the president.As things stand in Afghanistan, it will be unsurprising if Trump withdraws from Afghanistan out of frustration and disappointment. The Pentagon has already prepared contingency plans if Trump announces a sudden withdrawal without a peace deal. Trump’s thanksgiving address has added more uncertainty to the already volatile situation in Afghanistan. Things are back to pre-prisoner swaps, and fresh diplomatic efforts would be needed to remove confusions in order to move forward.The writer is a research fellow at theS Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Singapore.Email: isabasit@ntu.edu.sg
Trump’s South Asia policy adopted a hard line towards Pakistan along with following a condition-based approach in Afghanistan as opposed to a calendar-driven policy. This policy gave more powers to US military commanders on the ground and curtailed the US State Department’s clout in Afghan policy. In 2018, however, Trump changed his stance again and reached out to the Taliban’s Qatar office through Zalmay Khalilzad and the balance of US’ Afghan policy swung back in favour of the State Department.The latest somersault by Trump sums up the inconsistency of the US approach to Afghanistan. Such inconsistent polices and confusing messaging have generated hedging attitudes from the regional states on Afghanistan. By indicating that the US will withdraw from Afghanistan in his Thanksgiving address, Trump has eroded any semblance of leverage the US had on the Taliban. It is unclear how Trump will achieve a complete victory over the Taliban or force them to a ceasefire when the US is reducing its troops in Afghanistan.For Pakistan, which has high stakes in Afghanistan and is directly involved in peace talks as a facilitator, difficulties are likely to multiply if Trump sticks to his demand. The Taliban are unlikely to fulfil this demand. It will be difficult for the top Taliban leadership to convince their fighters and military commanders in the battlefield to agree to a ceasefire as a pre-condition. Given that the Taliban have an upper hand in the battlefield, they will prefer fighting than obliging Trump with a ceasefire.At the same time, the US has endorsed Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s position by demanding a ceasefire prior to resuming talks. The condition of ceasefire was mentioned by Ghani in his seven-point peace plan for Afghanistan in September. By agreeing to prisoner exchanges, Ghani seems to have won Trump’s vote of confidence. The fact that Dr Abdullah Abdullah’s supporters were protesting in Kabul against election fraud when Trump was meeting Ghani at the Bagram airbase is a clear indicator that Ghani is likely to continue as the president.As things stand in Afghanistan, it will be unsurprising if Trump withdraws from Afghanistan out of frustration and disappointment. The Pentagon has already prepared contingency plans if Trump announces a sudden withdrawal without a peace deal. Trump’s thanksgiving address has added more uncertainty to the already volatile situation in Afghanistan. Things are back to pre-prisoner swaps, and fresh diplomatic efforts would be needed to remove confusions in order to move forward.The writer is a research fellow at theS Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Singapore.Email: isabasit@ntu.edu.sg
The latest somersault by Trump sums up the inconsistency of the US approach to Afghanistan. Such inconsistent polices and confusing messaging have generated hedging attitudes from the regional states on Afghanistan. By indicating that the US will withdraw from Afghanistan in his Thanksgiving address, Trump has eroded any semblance of leverage the US had on the Taliban. It is unclear how Trump will achieve a complete victory over the Taliban or force them to a ceasefire when the US is reducing its troops in Afghanistan.For Pakistan, which has high stakes in Afghanistan and is directly involved in peace talks as a facilitator, difficulties are likely to multiply if Trump sticks to his demand. The Taliban are unlikely to fulfil this demand. It will be difficult for the top Taliban leadership to convince their fighters and military commanders in the battlefield to agree to a ceasefire as a pre-condition. Given that the Taliban have an upper hand in the battlefield, they will prefer fighting than obliging Trump with a ceasefire.At the same time, the US has endorsed Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s position by demanding a ceasefire prior to resuming talks. The condition of ceasefire was mentioned by Ghani in his seven-point peace plan for Afghanistan in September. By agreeing to prisoner exchanges, Ghani seems to have won Trump’s vote of confidence. The fact that Dr Abdullah Abdullah’s supporters were protesting in Kabul against election fraud when Trump was meeting Ghani at the Bagram airbase is a clear indicator that Ghani is likely to continue as the president.As things stand in Afghanistan, it will be unsurprising if Trump withdraws from Afghanistan out of frustration and disappointment. The Pentagon has already prepared contingency plans if Trump announces a sudden withdrawal without a peace deal. Trump’s thanksgiving address has added more uncertainty to the already volatile situation in Afghanistan. Things are back to pre-prisoner swaps, and fresh diplomatic efforts would be needed to remove confusions in order to move forward.The writer is a research fellow at theS Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Singapore.Email: isabasit@ntu.edu.sg
For Pakistan, which has high stakes in Afghanistan and is directly involved in peace talks as a facilitator, difficulties are likely to multiply if Trump sticks to his demand. The Taliban are unlikely to fulfil this demand. It will be difficult for the top Taliban leadership to convince their fighters and military commanders in the battlefield to agree to a ceasefire as a pre-condition. Given that the Taliban have an upper hand in the battlefield, they will prefer fighting than obliging Trump with a ceasefire.At the same time, the US has endorsed Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s position by demanding a ceasefire prior to resuming talks. The condition of ceasefire was mentioned by Ghani in his seven-point peace plan for Afghanistan in September. By agreeing to prisoner exchanges, Ghani seems to have won Trump’s vote of confidence. The fact that Dr Abdullah Abdullah’s supporters were protesting in Kabul against election fraud when Trump was meeting Ghani at the Bagram airbase is a clear indicator that Ghani is likely to continue as the president.As things stand in Afghanistan, it will be unsurprising if Trump withdraws from Afghanistan out of frustration and disappointment. The Pentagon has already prepared contingency plans if Trump announces a sudden withdrawal without a peace deal. Trump’s thanksgiving address has added more uncertainty to the already volatile situation in Afghanistan. Things are back to pre-prisoner swaps, and fresh diplomatic efforts would be needed to remove confusions in order to move forward.The writer is a research fellow at theS Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Singapore.Email: isabasit@ntu.edu.sg
At the same time, the US has endorsed Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s position by demanding a ceasefire prior to resuming talks. The condition of ceasefire was mentioned by Ghani in his seven-point peace plan for Afghanistan in September. By agreeing to prisoner exchanges, Ghani seems to have won Trump’s vote of confidence. The fact that Dr Abdullah Abdullah’s supporters were protesting in Kabul against election fraud when Trump was meeting Ghani at the Bagram airbase is a clear indicator that Ghani is likely to continue as the president.As things stand in Afghanistan, it will be unsurprising if Trump withdraws from Afghanistan out of frustration and disappointment. The Pentagon has already prepared contingency plans if Trump announces a sudden withdrawal without a peace deal. Trump’s thanksgiving address has added more uncertainty to the already volatile situation in Afghanistan. Things are back to pre-prisoner swaps, and fresh diplomatic efforts would be needed to remove confusions in order to move forward.The writer is a research fellow at theS Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Singapore.Email: isabasit@ntu.edu.sg
As things stand in Afghanistan, it will be unsurprising if Trump withdraws from Afghanistan out of frustration and disappointment. The Pentagon has already prepared contingency plans if Trump announces a sudden withdrawal without a peace deal. Trump’s thanksgiving address has added more uncertainty to the already volatile situation in Afghanistan. Things are back to pre-prisoner swaps, and fresh diplomatic efforts would be needed to remove confusions in order to move forward.The writer is a research fellow at theS Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Singapore.Email: isabasit@ntu.edu.sg
The writer is a research fellow at theS Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Singapore.Email: isabasit@ntu.edu.sg
The writer is a research fellow at theS Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Singapore.Email: isabasit@ntu.edu.sg
Email: isabasit@ntu.edu.sg
Scheme overlooks pressing need to address deep-rooted inequalities tied to caste, gender, class, and ethnicity
Making a flag out of the veil is a perpetual theme of Tappa, a genre of Pashto poetry
Pakistan has seen minimal improvement, languishing in a state of economic stagnation
Pakistani politics is full of twists and turns like a smash-hit soap opera
Majority Hindu community increasingly believes that such violence is morally justified under this ideology
Doing the same thing and expecting a different result is futile
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: America's top general 'optimistic' U.S.-Taliban talks will resume 

Profile
Sections
tv
Featured
More From NBC
Follow NBC News
There are no new alerts at this time
BAGRAM AIR FIELD, Afghanistan — America’s top general has said he was optimisticU.S.-Taliban negotiationswould resume, raising the prospects of a deal to end America’s longest war.
Asked whether theTaliban’s release of two Western hostagesearlier this month,including an American, had increased the chance of negotiations, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley responded Wednesday that they were “higher than I’ve seen.”
“I think we’re in a better place than we’ve been, doesn’t mean we are there yet though” Milley told reporters en route to Afghanistan. “I’m optimistic, but we’ll see.”
In comments after a bilateral meeting inBagram on Wedneday between President Donald Trump and President Ashraf Ghani of Afghanistan, Milley said talks the Taliban were "ongoing," but it was unclear if he meant negotiations had resumed.
When asked Wednesday if peace talks had indeed begun again with the Taliban, Trump said, "No, we're talking to the Taliban, yeah." He offered no further details.
In September,Trump called off the talksthat were meant to lead to wider peace negotiations and to enable the U.S. to withdraw its roughly 13,000 troops from the war-torn country. U.S. troops have been fighting in Afghanistan for 18 years.
Since 2001, when U.S.-led forces toppled the Taliban government after it sheltered 9/11 mastermind Osama bin Laden, tens of thousands of civilians and security personnel and more than2,400 Americanshave been killed in Afghanistan. Between Jan. 2009, whenthe United Nationsbegan a systematic documentation of civilian casualties, and Sept. 2019, some 34,000 civilians died as a result of the armed conflict.
While the resumption of U.S.-Taliban negotiations remains up in the air, Milley said the chances of the Afghan government and Taliban reaching a negotiated settlement could happen in the “not too distant future.”
“There is a broad recognition that the war in Afghanistan ends in some sort of negotiated settlement between the government of Afghanistan and various insurgent elements of the Taliban,” he said.
“With a bit of luck we’ll have successful negotiations in the near term, not too distant future,” he said, adding that the negotiations were “ongoing.”
While U.S. troops have been in Afghanistan since 2001, war and violence has plagued the country for decades.
Milley said a negotiated settlement between the Afghan government and Taliban was likely in the best interest of all parties and would "bring the war, quote on quote, to an end."
He said an American drawdown would be contingent on “conditions” being met but did not specify what those conditions might be.
In the past any reduction in American forces had hinged on progress in peace talks with the Taliban.But NBC News reported last monththat the Pentagon was drawing up plans for an abrupt withdrawal of all U.S. troops from Afghanistan in case Trump surprises military leaders by ordering an immediate drawdownas he did in Syria, according to three current and former defense officials.
Administration officials have said the president is expected to move forward with what one official described as "a token withdrawal" of U.S. troops from Afghanistan by the end of this year.
Ending wars like the one in Afghanistan was one of Trump's chief campaign promises in 2016. Trump has made clear to his advisers that he wants to pull all U.S. troops out of Afghanistan by the 2020 election, NBC News reported in August.
Last month, the U.S. military said that it had quietly reduced the number of troops in Afghanistan by about 2,000. It also said it could continue counter-terrorism operations with around 8,600 troops in the country.
Asked Wednesday if that was the number the military was aiming to leave, Miley said no decisions had been made but that was one of several options.
Mosheh Gains reported from Bagram Air Field. Saphora Smith reported from London.
Mosheh Gains is a Pentagon producer for NBC News.
Saphora Smith is a U.K. based freelance journalist.
© 2024 NBC UNIVERSAL

Title: Jalalabad attack - Newspaper - DAWN.COM
AS a final peace deal between the Afghan Taliban and the Americans has yet to be clinched, the chaos in Afghanistan — and the ungoverned spaces that are created due to it — has given sanctuary to a new breed of even more violent actors. The US-backed government in Kabul has a tenuous hold on governance, which means areas not under state control are either run by the Taliban, or elements associated with the militant Islamic State group. The brutal killing of a Japanese doctor in the eastern city of Jalalabad, along with five Afghans, shows that unless a comprehensive peace deal is signed soon, territories outside the remit of both Kabul and the Taliban will be used by terrorist groups to wreak havoc. Tetsu Nakamura — the slain doctor and aid worker — had worked to help Afghanistan’s long-suffering people since the 1980s; he was earlier based out of Peshawar and inside Afghanistan itself. The Taliban, who are no strangers to violence, denied any role in the doctor’s killing, saying they do not target those who “contributed to the reconstruction of Afghanistan”. Nangarhar, where Jalalabad is located, has been a hotbed of activity for IS militants, which means elements linked to the terrorist outfit may have been involved in the atrocity.
Last month, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani had said his government had “obliterated” IS in Afghanistan, as hundreds of IS militants laid down arms before the state. The Taliban mocked Kabul’s claim, saying it was they who had put IS on the back foot in the region. This series of events illustrates a strange situation in Afghanistan; the Afghan government as well as the Taliban have no love for IS and both claim to be fighting the self-styled caliphate. However, both Kabul and the Talibs are also sworn enemies, with the Taliban looking at Mr Ghani’s government with disdain, labelling them American ‘puppets’. Indeed, considering the circumstances, a peace deal in Afghanistan that brings together all the country’s factions and ethnic groups is the need of the hour. US envoy for Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad was recently in Kabul to kick-start peace talks with the Taliban. The Americans, Kabul, as well as the Taliban must realise that the biggest threat to peace in Afghanistan, and indeed, the region is IS. Therefore, instead of working at cross purposes, they need to combine their energies to defeat the group, which is in search of territory after its rout in the Levant.
Published in Dawn, December 6th, 2019
Compunode.com Pvt. Ltd. (www.compunode.com).Designed forDawn.
Copyright © 2024, Dawn
NewsKit Publishing Platform

Title: Jalalabad attack - Newspaper - DAWN.COM
AS a final peace deal between the Afghan Taliban and the Americans has yet to be clinched, the chaos in Afghanistan — and the ungoverned spaces that are created due to it — has given sanctuary to a new breed of even more violent actors. The US-backed government in Kabul has a tenuous hold on governance, which means areas not under state control are either run by the Taliban, or elements associated with the militant Islamic State group. The brutal killing of a Japanese doctor in the eastern city of Jalalabad, along with five Afghans, shows that unless a comprehensive peace deal is signed soon, territories outside the remit of both Kabul and the Taliban will be used by terrorist groups to wreak havoc. Tetsu Nakamura — the slain doctor and aid worker — had worked to help Afghanistan’s long-suffering people since the 1980s; he was earlier based out of Peshawar and inside Afghanistan itself. The Taliban, who are no strangers to violence, denied any role in the doctor’s killing, saying they do not target those who “contributed to the reconstruction of Afghanistan”. Nangarhar, where Jalalabad is located, has been a hotbed of activity for IS militants, which means elements linked to the terrorist outfit may have been involved in the atrocity.
Last month, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani had said his government had “obliterated” IS in Afghanistan, as hundreds of IS militants laid down arms before the state. The Taliban mocked Kabul’s claim, saying it was they who had put IS on the back foot in the region. This series of events illustrates a strange situation in Afghanistan; the Afghan government as well as the Taliban have no love for IS and both claim to be fighting the self-styled caliphate. However, both Kabul and the Talibs are also sworn enemies, with the Taliban looking at Mr Ghani’s government with disdain, labelling them American ‘puppets’. Indeed, considering the circumstances, a peace deal in Afghanistan that brings together all the country’s factions and ethnic groups is the need of the hour. US envoy for Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad was recently in Kabul to kick-start peace talks with the Taliban. The Americans, Kabul, as well as the Taliban must realise that the biggest threat to peace in Afghanistan, and indeed, the region is IS. Therefore, instead of working at cross purposes, they need to combine their energies to defeat the group, which is in search of territory after its rout in the Levant.
Published in Dawn, December 6th, 2019
Compunode.com Pvt. Ltd. (www.compunode.com).Designed forDawn.
Copyright © 2024, Dawn
NewsKit Publishing Platform

Title: If Taliban engages with Afghan govt, India can drop its hesitations: Former envoy Amar Sinha
Priyanka Chopra's film inspired this top Bollywood actress' screen name, it was suggested by Salman Khan, she is...
Mumbai Metro Aqua Line 3: First phase of Mumbai's underground metro likely to be inaugurated in...; check speed, fare
New airline from Uttar Pradesh gets govt approval, set to compete with IndiGo, Air India
Transforming Contingent Workforce Management with Cutting-Edge Program Strategies
Meet woman with Rs 39322 crore net worth, who once led Rs 59262 crore company, she is India's richest...
India
Amar Sinha, India's former ambassador to Afghanistan, was speaking at the platform of WION World Order - Talking Diplomacy.
Sidhant Sibal
Updated :Dec 06, 2019, 12:37 AM IST| Edited by :Ahamad Fuwad
India can engage with the Taliban if the group engages with the Afghan government and is acceptable to Afghan people, India's former ambassador to Afghanistan and a member of the National Security Advisory Board Amar Sinha said at WION's World Order event in Delhi on Thursday.
"Only way forward is ceasefire and Taliban engaging with the Afghan government, Afghan people, once they engage with them, India will have no hesitation with engaging with Taliban," Sinha said.
Explaining, he added, "Let the Afghan people accept them, we have stood behind Afghan govt, its good policy to carry and it is a matter of a month when we would be engaging, as they say, very popular Hindi song, 'apna time ayega', our time will come. Afghanistan is not going away."
India's official policy on the Afghan peace process has been "Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-Controlled" talks with the Afghan government playing a key role.
He said India won't be forgiving Taliban easily and its links with Pakistan are well known, highlighting that its "deputy leader is Haqqani who is an ISI agency and all the attacks in Kabul, against India has been carried out by them. So, I don't think we should forgive them as easily."
India, as a policy doesn't engage with the Taliban. The only contact happened during the 1999 hijacking of Indian Airline IC 814 when the plane was taken to Kandahar and the country was under the control of the Taliban.

Asked, if New Delhi should engage with the Taliban like other countries are as part of the peace process, Mr Sinha said, "Not engaging with the Taliban has not boomeranged at all."
"We have absolutely zero equity with Taliban, all our equity is with the Republic of Afghanistan and young and modern Afghanistan, where we have a very good standing," he said.
He said India's "position has been very mature" and if one looks around "what is happening... just about everyone is following a me-too policy" and while countries like China, Russia, Uzbekistan, Iran have been talking with Taliban "what has been achieved, nothing, the violence level is as high."
Amar Sinha, along with former Indian envoy to Pakistan TCA Raghavan in 2018 represented India at a "non-official" level at Moscow talks on Afghanistan in which Taliban was also present but no statement was made by any of the Indian diplomats.
Last week, US President Donald Trump made a surprise visit to Afghanistan and announced that Washington will start talks with the Taliban but one of the pre-condition will be a ceasefire, meaning putting an end to violence by the grouping in the landlocked South Asian country.
US special envoy to Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad will "rejoin talks" with Taliban in Doha according to the state department that could "lead to intra-Afghan negotiations and a peaceful settlement of the war, specifically a reduction in violence that leads to a ceasefire"
President Trump had cancelled the talks with the Taliban in September after an attack killed US solider in Afghanistan.
Lok Sabha Elections 2024: Anupamaa' Star Rupali Ganguly Joins BJP, Says 'Big Fan' Of PM Modi
Salman Khan House Firing Case: Accused Anuj Thapan Dies By Suicide In Mumbai Police Custody
Lok Sabha Elections 2024: Congress' Rahul Gandhi-Amethi Suspense Making BJP Nervous? | Uttar Pradesh
Delhi Bomb Threat: Who Is Behind The Hoax Bomb Threat That Shut Down Hundred Schools In Delhi?
Bangladesh Protest: Unreal Scenes In Country After fresh Wave Of Protests |Sheikh Hasina

Title: U.S. and Taliban enter into new round of peace talks - National | Globalnews.ca
Instructions:
Want to discuss? Please read ourCommenting Policyfirst.
If you get Global News from Instagram or Facebook - that will be changing.Find out how you can still connect with us.
This article is more than 4 years old and some information may not be up to date.
U.S. peace envoy Zalmay Khalilzad on Saturday held the first official talks withAfghanistan‘s Taliban since U.S. PresidentDonald Trumpdeclared a near-certain peace deal with the insurgents dead in September.
The talks will initially focus on getting a Taliban promise to reduce violence, with a permanent cease-fire being the eventual goal, said a U.S. statement. Khalilzad is also trying to lay the groundwork for negotiations between Afghans on both sides of the protracted conflict.
Sitting with the Taliban at the negotiating table was Anas Haqqani, one of three senior Taliban freed last month in exchange for kidnapped American University of Afghanistan professors — American Kevin King and Australian Timothy Weeks, Taliban’s political office spokesman Suhail Shaheen tweeted.
Haqqani is the younger brother of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the Taliban’s deputy and the head of the much feared Haqqani network, a U.S. declared terrorist organization.
Tweeting that talks will resume on Sunday, Shaheen also said “we discussed matters related to the signing of the agreement,”without elaborating.
The meetings being held in the Middle Eastern State of Qatar, where the Taliban maintain a political office, follow several days of talks in Afghanistan’s capital, Kabul, where Khalilzad met with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani.
The Taliban have so far refused direct talks with Ghani, calling him a U.S. puppet.
Ghani leads the Afghan government with Chief Executive Abdullah Abdullah in a power-sharing agreement brokered by the United States after the presidential elections in 2014 were so deeply mired in corruption that a clear winner could not be determined.
To head off a conflict Washington stepped in and forced the two leading candidates — Ghani and Abdullah — to share power in a so-called Unity Government that has been largely paralyzed because of the relentless bickering between the two leaders.
READ MORE:U.S., Australian hostages freed in prisoner exchange, Taliban says
The Afghan government is now embroiled in a fresh elections standoff. Presidential polls on Sept. 28 again ended in accusations of misconduct, with no results yet announced.
Repeat leading contender Abdullah has challenged the recounting of several hundred thousand ballots, accusing his opponent Ghani of trying to manipulate the tally.
Meanwhile, Khalilzad’s return to his peace mission followed Trump’s surprise Thanksgiving Day visit to Afghanistan in which he said talks with the Taliban were back on.
While Khalilzad is talking to the Taliban about reducing violence, the U.S. military in its daily report said overnight on Saturday U.S. airstrikes killed 37 Taliban and operations by the Afghan National Security Forces killed another 22 of the militants.
The insurgents have continued to carry out near daily strikes against military outposts throughout the country. They now hold sway over nearly half of Afghanistan.
Trump has expressed frustration with America’s longest war repeatedly saying he wants to bring the estimated 12,000 U.S. soldiers home and calling on Afghanistan’s own police and military to step up. The Afghan government has also been criticized for its relentless corruption.
The email you need for the day’s top news stories from Canada and around the world.
The email you need for the day’s top news stories from Canada and around the world.

Title: Pakistan Hails US Effort in Afghan Peace | Al Bawaba
Pakistan's Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi has welcomed U.S. President Donald Trump's statement to pursue political settlement in Afghanistan by resuming dialogue with the Taliban.
"President Trump’s continued willingness to pursue political settlement in Afghanistan by resuming dialogue with the Taliban is a positive development," Qureshi told reporters on Saturday in Multan, a northeastern city of Pakistan, according to the the state-run Pakistan TV.
We hope talks between the U.S. and Taliban will resume soon and it will help in establishing peace and stability in Afghanistan as well as in the region, he added.
Reaffirming his country support, Qureshi said Pakistan will continue to support and facilitate the peace and reconciliation process in Afghanistan.
On Thursday, Trump made a surprise visit to Afghanistan to celebrate Thanksgiving with the American troops.
"The Taliban wants to make a deal, and we’re meeting with them," Trump said in a meeting with his Afghan counterpart President Ashraf Ghani during his visit at Bagram Airfield, according to The New York Times.
On Friday, a day after the Trump's statement, Qatar-based Al-Jazeera reported that the U.S. and Taliban have resumed informal talks and met in Doha to discuss the resumption of formal peace talks.
Early September, Trump declared the peace talks with the Taliban "dead" following an attack in the capital Kabul which killed a dozen people, including a U.S. service member.
Following Trump’s move, the Taliban opened new battlefronts across the war-weary nation.
This article has been adapted from its original source.
ViaSyndiGate.info
� Copyright Andolu Ajansi
Subscribe to our newsletter for exclusive updates and enhanced content
Subscribe


Title: Pakistan giving training to suicide bombers to attack Indian missions | NewsTrack English 1
Dec 24 2019 04:44 PM
Kabul:Pakistan's intelligence agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) is planning to attack Indian missions in Afghanistan. These attacks can be carried out through a suicide bomber carrying a car full of explosives. According to a recent intelligence report, ISI is conspiring with terrorist organizations like Lashkar-e-Taiba and Islamic State (ISIS) for the same.
8 terrorists of al-Shabaab killed by Somalian army, Governor says, 'situation under control'
The 'Islamic State in Khorasan Province' (ISKP) is a unit of the terrorist organization Islamic State in Afghanistan and is active in the Afghanistan-Pakistan region. It is being told that it has also recruited some youths from India to terrorist organizations. ISKP and Lashkar-e-Taiba are in touch with each other to attack Indian missions in Afghanistan. According to the Intelligence report, Saifullah, a native of Lahore, is working to liaise between Lashkar and ISKP. ISKP commander Matin Mouvia in Kabul has been ordered to carry out attacks on Indian missions.
Phillippines: Weeds over Christmas celebration, 11 died by drinking coconut wine
According to the inputs, 5 suicide bombers are being trained. Last year, 40 CROPF soldiers were martyred in the Pulwama fidayeen attack. Then a car filled with explosives was hit by a terrorist attacker carrying a vehicle carrying CRPF personnel. Apart from the Indian Embassy in Kabul on the target of terrorists in Afghanistan, India has advisors in Jalalabad and Herat. It has also been said in the report that the Indian people working in Afghanistan are also in danger of being targeted.
People go mad to catch balloons in the mall, 5 people admitted to hospital
© 2024 News Track Live - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

Title: Pakistan’s ISI Plotting With IS, LeT To Attack Indian Missions And Infrastructure Projects in Afghanistan
Insta
Swarajya Staff
Dec 25, 2019, 07:03 PM | Updated  07:03 PM IST
Save & read from anywhere!
Bookmark stories for easy access on any device or theSwarajya app.
Pakistan’s Inter-Service Intelligence (ISI) is clandestinely coordinating with Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Islamic State to carry out car bomb suicide attacks on Indian missions in Afghanistan,reportsIndia Today.
The Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP), is very much active in the Af-Pak region and has some recruits from India. The ISI which many experts believe controls LeT gave the banned terror outfit the responsibility to partner with the IS to plot the attacks.
Recently hundreds ofIS cadresalong with their families surrendered to security forces in Afghanistan and 10 among them are reportedly Indians, mostly from Kerala.
In the intelligence report the name of one Saifullah, a native of Lahore is seen as the coordinator between the LeT and ISKP for the attack and Matin Mauvia is the ISKP commander in Kabul who is to execute the plans.
According to the intelligence report five suicide bombers have received training to carry out the attacks presumably against Indian Missions in Kabul, Jalalabad, and Herat provinces in Afghanistan.
Attacks are also planned against Indians working in infrastructure projects in Afghanistan. India has helped develop several infrastructures in including building of the Afghan Parliament.
In 2008, terrorists used a suicide car bomb outside the Indian embassy in Kabul killing over 40 people.
Join ourWhatsApp channel- no spam, only sharp analysis
Comments↓
About Swarajya
Shaping the modern Indian's worldview, speaking on behalf of those invested in the cultural and economic prosperity of India. Published since 1956.
Swarajya is a publication by Kovai Media Private Limited.
Useful Links
Useful Links
Participate
Stay Connected

Title: Pakistan plots Let, IS attacks on Indian Missions in Afghanistan 
Listen to Story
Pakistan’s ISI is forging a partnership between LeT and Islamic State to carry out car bomb suicide attacks on Indian missions in Afghanistan, according to a recent intelligence report.
The Islamic State in Khorasan Province known as ISKP, the group’s Afghanistan arm, is active in the Af-Pak region and is said to have recruited some Indians. The ISI has given LeT the responsibility to partner with the IS to plot the attacks.=
The report names one Saifullah a native of Lahore who is coordinating between the LeT and ISKP for the attack.
Matin Mauvia, ISKP commander in Kabul has been tasked to carry out the attack.
Inputs suggest that five suicide bombers have received training to carry out the suicide bombing.
Last year 40 CRPF soldiers were killed in a car suicide bomber in Pulwama when an explosives-laden vehicle got into the convoy and rammed into one of the vehicles.
According to the terror plot that Indian agencies have got a whiff of on the target in the Indian Embassy in Kabul along with consulates in Jalalabad and Herat.
Also under threat are Indians working in infrastructure projects in Afghanistan, according to the report.
Back in 2008, a suicide car bomb outside the Indian embassy in Kabul had killed over 40 people. Since then the Indian missions have been targeted many times.Published By:Shreya SinhaPublished On:Dec 24, 2019--- ENDS ---

Title: Defence News - Read Latest Updates on Indian Defence



Title:  Pakistan's ISI Plans Attacks On Indian Missions In Afghanistan: Sources 
0
By clicking the button, I accept theTerms of Use of the serviceand itsPrivacy Policy, as well as consent to the processing of personal data.
Don’t have an account?Signup
Powered by :
Follow Us
According to report, five suicide attackers are being trained in Afghanistan.( Photo Credit : Representative Image)
Pakistan’s intelligence agency, Inter-services Intelligence (ISI), along with terrorist group ISIS and Lashkar, is planning to attack Indian missions in Afghanistan, say sources. The Indian missions can be targeted through car bomb suicide attacks. As per intelligence inputs, Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant – Khorasan Province, which is an ISIS unit active across Pakistan, Afghanistan, has recruited people including Indians to target missions.
A Lahore resident, Saifullah, who works as a link between Lashkar and ISKP, has assigned ISKP commander Mateen Mauvia to conduct attacks on Indian missions in Afghanistan, say sources.
According to report, five suicide attackers are being trained in Afghanistan to attack Indian missions.  The terrorists, along with Indian consulate in Kabul, may target India’s foreign offices in Jalalabad and Herat. The report goes on to suggest that Indians engaged in construction purposes might also become target.



Subscribe to our Newsletter!


Share this article
If you liked this article share it with your friends.they will thank you later

Title: Pakistan plots attacks on Indian Embassies in Afghanistan -
ByPratyaksha MitraonDecember 25, 2019No Comment
New Delhi: Pakistan is planning attacks on Indian embassies in Afghanistan using the dreaded terrorist outfits Islamic State (IS) and Lashkar-e-Taiba. The infamous Pakistani intelligence agencyISIhas been working on the plot and have been imparting training to suicide attackers. The security at the Indian embassies in Afghanistan has been beefed up following the intelligence reports.
The IS terrorists have been hiding in the Khorasan province of Afghanistan. It is reported that some Indians have been recruited by the group ISKP and are being trained. A terrorist name Saifullah, from Lahore, is in contact with theISand Lashkar. The ISKP commander in Kabul has been assigned the responsibility of carrying out attacks on the Indian embassies in Kabul, Jalalabad and Herat.
As per intelligence reports, five suicide attackers have been instructed to attack the Indian embassies in Afghanistan and have been trained for the task.Indiais involved in the development of the infrastructural facilities in Afghanistan. The intelligence report says that there is a threat to the lives of the Indians working on these projects. Therefore, security at and around the Indian embassies has been bolstered.
Meanwhile, in 2008, 40 people had been killed in a suicide car bomb explosion outside the Indian embassy in the Afghan capital of Kabul. Even after that, the Indian embassies and the Indian workers have been targeted inAfghanistan.
Afghanistan,India,IS,Pakistan
Pakistan plots attacks on Indian Embassies in Afghanistanadded byPratyaksha MitraonDecember 25, 2019View all posts by Pratyaksha Mitra →
Your email address will not be published.



Title: Syria Accuses Americans of Supporting IS After U.S. Helped Free Most of Country From the Group
No media source currently available
Syria Accuses Americans of Supporting IS After U.S. Helped Free Most of Country From the Group. Polygraph.info video by Nik Yarst.
Syrian Foreign Minister
“The Americans are using ISIS as a scarecrow. At the same time they are feeding ISIS, encourage them, protect ISIS leaders and help them move from one area to another.”
On Dec. 25, the Russian state-owned media outlet RT (Russia Today) published an interview with Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Muhallem, in which he accused the U.S. of using the self-proclaimed “Islamic State” as a “scarecrow” while “feeding” the terror group and protecting its leaders.
Such claims from the Syrian government and Russian state media, as well as government officials and military commanders are not new. Polygraph.info has fact-checked a number of specific claims.
Some alleged that U.S. military or covert forces havesecretly transferred Islamic State leadersbetween different locations, not only in Syria,but also in Afghanistan, where an Islamic State branch known as Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) operates.
Among other false claims is that U.S. forces avoided striking oil facilities controlled by the Islamic State, despite data showingthe opposite is true.
Russia’s Defense Ministry repeatedly claimed the U.S. was training IS terrorists in Syria.That was proven false.
It also claimed that the U.S. and U.S.-controlled local forces have blocked humanitarian access tothe refugee campsinside Syria. That has been debunked by the aid groups working in the area.
Since Islamic State’s revival and seizure of large swaths of Iraq and Syria starting in the summer of 2014, the U.S. has mobilizeda coalition of nationsto defeat Islamic State on the battlefield as well as shut down its funding resources and propaganda networks.
The U.S.-leadOperation Inherent Resolvesets its mission as:
“[t]o defeat ISIS as a military force on the battlefield in Iraq and Syria. We will disrupt their ability to command and control their fighters, remove their safe havens, interrupt their revenue streams that fund their operations, destroy their equipment, and kill their fighters. We will eliminate their effectiveness as an organized force on the battlefield.”
In Iraq, Islamic State lost 95 percent of its territory to Iraqi government forces backed by the U.S.-led coalition by December 2017.
In Syria, U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces -- not the Assad regime -- retook most of the occupied territory from Islamic State, including the group’s “capital” of Raqqa.
The claim that “the Americans” have been protecting Islamic State leaders is undermined by the fact that in October 2019, U.S. Special Operations forces killed the group’s leader and self-proclaimed Caliph,Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, and his press secretary, Abu al-Hassan al-Muhajir. Previous Islamic State leaders and commanders were also killed in U.S. military operations, including Abu Omar al-Baghdadi (2010), Abu Ayyub al-Masri (2010) and founder Abu-Musab al-Zarqawi (2006), and thelist goes on.
In Afghanistan, the U.S.has targeted the ISKP leadershipwith hundreds of airstrikes since 2017.


Title: Peace in the Districts (2): Prospects, approaches and an emphasis on ‘good peace’ - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
Author: S Reza Kazemi
Date: 20 December 2019
In this second of two dispatches on what people in ten districts across Afghanistan think about prospects for peace, we hear their views on the relationship between a possible high-level peace deal and actual peace in the districts. Interviewees expressed a striking mix of optimistic and sceptical opinions as to the local viability of any peace deal. They were also mostly divided as to whether they thought a bottom-up or a top-down approach to achieving peace was the most useful. However, as AAN researcher Reza Kazemi found, there was broad agreement that, this time, by some way or other, if peace is to be found, it needs to be a ‘good peace,’ one that ends the drivers of conflict and does not merely pave the way for a new phase in this long war. (Research by Ali Mohammad Sabawoon, Ehsan Qaane, Fazal Muzhary, Khadija Hussaini, Obaid Ali, Reza Kazemi and Rohullah Sorush)
The ‘Peace in the Districts’ mini-series is a joint research project by the Afghanistan Analysts Network (AAN) and the United States Institute of Peace (USIP). Thefirstdispatch heard views on the positions of the main actors in the conflict primarily within the context of the US-Taleban negotiations in the Qatari capital of Doha, and the rift perceived by people between these ‘high talks’ and their local concerns for peace.
This second dispatch presents responses to two other questions: (a) whether a high-level peace agreement among the Afghan government, the Taleban and the US could end the war at the local level and; (b) what can or should happen in the districts to contribute to achieving peace nationally. Interviews were carried out with three ‘key informants’ in each of ten districts, which were chosen to present a variety with regard to ethnic composition, language(s) spoken and who has effective control of the district: those more under government control – Achin in Nangrahar province, Kahmard in Bamyan and Nawmish in Helmand/Daikundi (1); those more under Taleban control, both where the government still controls the district centre – Dasht-e Archi in Kunduz, Obeh in Herat, Qaysar in Faryab and Zurmat in Paktia – and where it does not – Andar in Ghazni – and districts whose control is roughly divided – Jalrez in Wardak and Nad Ali in Helmand.
The 30 key informants AAN spoke to had a variety of roles and jobs (with categories not mutually exclusive). There were: six local elders, six teachers, three shopkeepers, two farmers, two medical personnel, one journalist, two local NGO employees, two local government employees, two businessmen, two local council members, one religious scholar and one housewife. They comprised 29 men and one woman and varied in age (where we knew it) from 26 to 65 years old. For more detail on our methodology, please see the first dispatch in this series.)
Local opinions on whether a ‘high’ peace deal will end war in the districts
First, we asked our interviewees for their opinions on whether a top-level negotiated peace among the three main actors to the armed conflict in Afghanistan – the government, the Taleban and the US – would end the war in their districts. A few interviewees found this question so hard, it was unfathomable. “In one sentence,” said a farmer from Zurmat, “I don’t know the answer.” Many interviewees were, by and large, both optimistic and sceptical. It was difficult to ascertain whether there was more optimism overall than scepticism or the other way around; however, what was striking was how both co-existed at the same time within the same conversations. For the sake of organisation, the optimistic and pessimistic views are described separately.
Optimism: arguing that only intra-Afghan talks can lead to real local peace
For most key informants in the districts, the fact that the Afghan government has not yet been present in the US-Taleban negotiations in Qatar’s capital, Doha, constituted the major obstacle in efforts aimed at reaching a ceasefire and negotiating a peace accord in Afghanistan, which if turned around, would make them feel somewhat optimistic. Representing this widespread opinion, a journalist in Nad Ali said:
If the Afghans [the government and the Taleban] don’t sit together to solve the existing problem [war], meetings between the Taleban and the US will never yield any results, even if they sit and talk for years.
Many key informants indicated that a negotiated ceasefire and peace agreement between the US-backed Afghan government and the Taleban would mean an end to the war in their districts. The overarching reason they gave was that it was these two key parties – Afghan government and Taleban – that were involved in the current armed conflict in their districts. As they saw it, if and when these sides make peace, no other party will remain who can push to continue the war. Some pointed to the brief three-day ceasefire in mid-June 2018 when, in the words of an interviewee from Andar, “we didn’t see any fighting from anyone in our district.” Many also felt that the parties to the conflict were tired of continuing the war. This thinking is illustrated in the following three quotes:
[A peace between the government and the Taleban] would put an end to the conflict in our district, because there’s only one anti-government armed opposition group in our district and that’s the Taleban.
– Teacher, Dasht-e Archi
If the government and Taleban reach peace, this would mean the end of war in Obeh. Most Taleban I meet say they’re tired of fighting and bloodshed. They too wish there would be peace. The government and the Taleban are like two brothers who are fighting each other. If they reconcile and become united, they’ll be able to ensure peace. If this happens, then everybody else will be put in their place. No one else will be able to create the kind of problems we now have.
– Teacher, Obeh
If these warring parties [the Afghan government and the Taleban] make peace, it will definitely end the war in our district. The reason is that when they make peace, then there will be no reason left for another war in our district. There’s no other group that’s going to push for another war. Another reason is that people in Andar district are fed up with war and they don’t want any more war here.
– Teacher, Andar
Several interviewees thought a strong government could emerge from peace between the Afghan government and the Taleban, one that could provide better governance in Afghanistan. Such better governance would be grounded in a greater public trust in the government and the fact that it would no longer have to busy itself waging an unceasing war. They also saw a role for jirgasand shuras, the traditional Afghan forums for peaceful conflict resolution, in handling local conflicts. These perceptions are illustrated by the following three quotes:
Local conflicts over land and other issues are only the result of the government’s weakness. If there’s peace, the government will be responsible for solving these problems. At the moment, the government is busy with the ongoing war and has no time to address most social issues.
– Local elder, Qaysar
Then [after peace between the government and the Taleban is reached], other issues such as land and water disputes can be solved easily. Afghans can solve those issues through their own traditions.
– Local elder, Achin
Other things such as land and water disputes are small issues that could be easily solved by elders’ councils. We have a great traditional system for solving those problems.
– Doctor, Zurmat
In terms of remaining security concerns, many said they believed these would also be manageable after peace with the Taleban was reached, given the strong government they believed would arise from reconciliation between the government and Taleban. In general, their perception was that such a government would leave no space for militancy or insurgency to survive. They believed that since there would no longer be a need for militias, these groups would be reined in by a stronger government that now had its hands free, through absorption or demobilisation:
The government can easily handle the militias. They’re active in insecure areas and most of the time they’re behind the insecurity. If there’s peace, people won’t allow militias and the government won’t allow them to operate. In fact, there won’t be a need for militias if there’s peace.
– Local council member, Dasht-e Archi
There won’t be any space for militias to operate because they will either join the [government] security forces’ structure or will be disarmed.
– Local elder, Zurmat
As for the Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP), or Daesh, many interviewees, particularly those in Achin, which Daesh was in control of, but has been beaten back and is now confined to a few marginal mountainous areas, though it was untenable in the long term. They regarded the group as alien and unacceptable to Afghans including the Taleban and their way of life, regardless of whether a peace was reached or not. They thought there would be ever-shrinking operational and living space for the group. The following quotes capture this reasoning:
Regarding Daesh, most of them are foreigners. It’s a small group in Afghanistan. There are few Afghans among them and we can separate them. Afghans can stand against them and drive them out [of Afghanistan].
– Local elder, Achin
Daesh isn’t present in our district. It can’t survive in our district because it has a very different ideology which isn’t accepted by anyone in our district.
– Journalist, Nad Ali
It’s impossible for Daesh to be present in Herat province. You take Shindand [district in the south]. Daesh can’t be there because that’s where the Taleban have their headquarters in Herat.
– Social activist, Obeh
No one’s supporting Daesh. We all know what Daesh is doing in Kunar and Nangarhar. Shia and Sunni residents of Jalrez are against them. For me, it’s impossible that Daesh can recruit locals.
– Pharmacist, Jalrez
It might be expected that Afghans, even those caught up in violence, would maintain hopes for a peaceful future. However, the scale of the interviewees’ optimism over future stability and the strength of government following a negotiated peace was striking and somewhat surprising, given the post-2001 disarmament and state-building experience. In some cases, it appeared to approach a kind of ‘magical thinking’ in which the solving of one problem is expected to miraculously solve all problems.
Perhaps it was easier for the interviewees to express optimism about the one factor that is currently missing in the ongoing ‘peace’ efforts (Afghan government’s inclusion in the Doha talks). The claim that this would then solve all problems may have primarily been a way to emphasise how much of a dire need there is for a peace deal between the Afghan government and Taleban in order to achieve peace in their districts. These interviewees were possibly talking about an ideal situation rather than an actual expectation. This seems borne out by the fact that some of the key informants that voiced such upbeat views simultaneously expressed misgivings as to whether a negotiated peace would actually end the war in their districts.
Scepticism: even a deal might not end the war
At the same time, there was considerable scepticism, including in the same districts – sometimes even in the same interviews – where optimism had been expressed. Many interviewees expressed doubts that a high-level negotiated peace between the Afghan government, the Taleban and the US would bring the war to an end in their districts. Overall, they gave three main reasons why they suspected such an agreement could not bring peace to Afghanistan, not only in the big cities but also to the villages and towns in the districts.
First, they believed signing a peace deal is one thing, upholding and enforcing it another. They questioned whether any of the parties, including the government and the Taleban, was sincerely committed to not only reaching an agreement, but also to implement it. “The only kind of peace we’ve seen [in Afghanistan] has been the placing of signatures on a piece of paper that had no guarantee or practical impact afterwards,” said a teacher from Kahmard.
Some recounted how earlier local ‘peace’ deals had been short-lived with abrupt, tragic endings. This revealed the existential uncertainty of trusting the intent of the other sides in the war, particularly when they believe they are on the verge of winning:
I don’t believe the Taleban would strike a peace agreement with the government and even if they did, I don’t think they’d keep it. I’m speaking from my own personal experience. In the past, as elders, we signed agreements with the Taleban. For example, in 2017/18, after the Taleban killed two travellers including a lecturer from Bamyan University, they promised not to harm travellers on the roads any more. But, they didn’t keep their word longer than two months. Again, they kidnapped and killed travellers, including an employee of the [Afghanistan Independent] Human Rights Commission. What I’m saying is that it’s difficult to trust the Taleban, especially when they think they’ve defeated a global superpower… Maybe under US pressure, they [Taleban] would accept making peace with the Afghan government, but a day after the US withdrawal, they’d break their agreement.
– Local elder, Jalrez
Similarly, as referred to in the first of this two-part series, some interviewees believed the Taleban were suspicious of the government’s peace overtures. These interviewees thought that for the Taleban, striking a deal with the government would be tantamount to “surrender,” as it would involve laying down arms and participating in a political system many of them see as illegitimate and have fought against for many years.
Second, the key informants viewed both the government and the Taleban as disunited entities with a confusing plethora of loosely-controlled and mercurial groups operating under their banner (although the Taleban were more often regarded as such than the government). According to these interviewees, lack of or lax control over field commanders and fighters could easily destroy peace in the districts. There were, in their view, various groups who were perpetuating the war on a local level and that might sabotage the peace if they were left out. They also raised the possibility that a deal could be struck only between leaders and might remain limited to them. This would mean that those in the highest echelons would be rewarded, but those further down would be ignored and left to fend for themselves. Some gave the example of the peace agreement reached with Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. A high-level negotiated peace was therefore seen by these key informants as perhaps ‘making peace,’ but not actually keeping or building it, especially on a local level. These perspectives are illustrated by the following three quotes:
I don’t think the war would end in Zurmat. There are various groups of militants that are operating in our district, and each pursues its own interests. Even within the government, various factions follow different directions. There are complex interests and that makes it complicated to find a suitable way to reach peace. For example, a young man was detained by a group of militants in Zurmat. When we wanted to negotiate with the local Taleban, we had to meet several of their commanders to find the right one to inquire about the detained person. Eventually, we discovered that he was detained by the Haqqani network and we had to deal with its commanders, not Islamic Emirate commanders. For this reason, a political settlement with the Islamic Emirate doesn’t mean a peaceful settlement in Zurmat.
– Farmer, Zurmat
I believe a political settlement could end insecurity in Jalrez. However, it won’t be sustainable if the Taleban fighters are not controlled by the Taleban leaders and are not properly reintegrated by the Afghan government and the international community… Taleban leaders would enjoy being in power and receiving money like Hekmatyar, but the fighters would be forgotten.
– Local council member, Jalrez
Not all of the people who fight under Taleban’s name are Taleban… Many of them are people who’ve killed [other] people and who can’t join the government. So, they joined the Taleban and remain safe with them. These people will again seek a force to fight against the government, and the foreigners will establish a group for them.
– Local NGO worker, Nad Ali
Relatedly, some key informants, in Obeh district, in particular, believed that what they called “zurmanda” (“power-holders” or those who forward their agenda by force) could damage peace since many of them have more interest in continuing the war than in achieving peace. A person from Obeh, who is a local government employee, described those he thought were zurmandaand the circumstances that were favourable to them:
If we get down to the bottom of things, there’s no law in Obeh. No one respects the law, neither the government nor the Taleban. Whatever law exists is the law of force, the law of nepotism and the law of doing things as the prevailing power wants wherever it exists. Some of the zurmanda are in government, some are jihadi commanders, others are Taleban and common thieves. They do whatever they want under the present anarchy… The zurmanda and the Taleban have set up arms depots for themselves.
The current chaotic situation was viewed as beneficial for the zurmanda simply because it was difficult to clearly identify them, raise a voice against them or hold them to account, as illustrated by the following two quotes:
There are people from both sides [Taleban and government] who are using the existing disorder to their benefit. They’re the ones who don’t want peace to come to Obeh and to Afghanistan. It’s because chaos is beneficial to them. War is more in their interest than peace. Today we have some of the most corrupt officials who are in government but at the same time, they have ties with the Taleban. If there’s security and people aren’t afraid of raising their grievances, they can stand up against them. But if anyone complains now, they can’t do anything and they’ll be afraid of complaining. They’re afraid of getting killed by either the Taleban or the government. If there’s one clear party to power, people will know where to go to raise their grievances and have them addressed. And if someone is killed, they’ll know who killed that person. Accountability isn’t clear when there’s a double government. You don’t know who hurts or kills you, the government official or the Taleb or someone else.
– Teacher, Obeh
One person, expressing the same view of the problem, thought it might get resolved after a peace deal:
Some people have joined the Taleban group to be able to loot passengers on roads. If there’s peace, security will improve and criminals will be differentiated. Now, we’re attacked by all sides and all in the name of the Taleban.
– Shopkeeper, Nawmish
Third is the fear of a potential new insurgency. Some key informants, in particular in Achin, but also in other districts, expressed concern that ISKP might expand or that some other militant group might emerge and attract those who had been left out of or opposed any Taleban-government peace deal. In Nawmish, a religious scholar was, for instance, concerned that some “retired Taleban” and other local militants might re-hat as ISKP, a possibility he regarded as dangerous. Another man in Achin expressed his concern about ISKP, saying, “I don’t think [a government-Taleban peace] would be the end of the conflict in Achin because Daesh is still present here.” More generally was the fear that local insurgents, in the words of a teacher from Obeh, would simply “sit and fight where the wind blows.”
In Jalrez, a local council member described in detail how field fighters might ‘rebrand’ and reposition themselves in a changing insurgency landscape:
Hekmatyar’s fighters in Wardak [province] joined the Taleban after his [Hekmatyar’s] peace deal with the Afghan government… After a peace agreement [with the Taleban is reached], if these fighters can’t find an income, they’ll join any insurgent group that offers them a job. Daesh could be an alternative to the Taleban. These days, locals don’t believe there’s a space for Daesh in Jalrez, as their religious thoughts and behaviour in combat aren’t welcomed. But, after 2001, the same thing was said about the Taleban, that they wouldn’t re-emerge. Within five years, the Taleban were able to hold territory in Jalrez… Once guns and money come, insurgents will appear.
Local opinions on what should happen in the districts to achieve peace
Next, we asked our key informants about what needs to happen in the districts to contribute to achieving peace in the country. In contrast to the previous question, where many interviewees held simultaneous optimistic and pessimistic views, here opinions were generally more polarised, with many interviewees arguing for either a bottom-up or a top-down approach to realise peace. Only one of the thirty interviewees explicitly said both approaches were needed.
Building peace from the bottom up
Some key informants believed Afghanistan needs a broad grassroots mobilisation to push for peace. A major objective of this mobilisation was seen in Andar district in particular as potentially ushering in a peaceful mind-set – one that was backed by greater public awareness, focused on the dividends of peace and distancing people from what interviewees saw as relentless warmongering. This perception is represented by the following quote:
One thing that’s very necessary is that we need widespread public awareness in order to set a mentality for peace… Such awareness should focus on the benefits of peace in Afghanistan. It’ll enable the people to understand that with the coming of peace a lot of good things are going to happen.
– Teacher, Andar
Another person from Andar regarded “peaceful language” and freedom from force as a basic component of developing a peaceable attitude:
I think a lot of work is needed in order to bring peace to this district. The first important issue is that no one should be able to impose something on someone else by force. I think we’ve had enough experience of the use of force in the last 18 years. This means using the language of force is meaningless… We don’t need the use of war language. Instead, we should be using a peaceful language.
Promoting an amicable ambience was viewed as crucial because it could serve as an icebreaker to motivate the parties to the conflict, in particular, the government and Taleban, to talk to each other, understand each other’s concerns and sort out their differences, as illustrated by the following two quotes:
There are two sides of the conflict, the Taleban and government. Both sides are Afghan. There’s a need for them to understand each other. This understanding can happen when both sides discuss issues and find solutions. They should listen to each other.
– Local council member, Dasht-e Archi
There’s a serious need for the two warring sides [government and Taleban] to sit together and discuss all the points over which they have differences. I think if they have open and serious discussions, it’ll definitely result in a peace. Instead of fighting against each other, sitting with each other and discussing the issues will end the war.
– Businessman, Andar
Several interviewees stressed the role of socially respected and active figures such as elders, religious scholars (ulama) and civil society members in making such a discussion possible, including within the context of a jirga. Such figures, they believed, could reach out to the warring sides, either to kick off the conversation or to facilitate local talks once it is clear that the parties are serious nationally. This view is covered by the following three quotes:
To achieve peace, we can all work for it. For example, we can go to the opposition [Taleban], embrace them and address their concerns. The ulama and tribal elders can, of course, play a good role in this. This can be applicable to the whole country.
– Local elder, Achin
There’s a need for a grassroots peace initiative in Dasht-e Archi. There should be a neutral door-to-door peace campaign. The Taleban are tired of fighting. I know many of their commanders and fighters are willing to put an end to the war. This can be done by local elders… It’s possible for elders to reach out to the local Taleban commanders and convince them to stop targeting civilians, but there must also be assurances from the government side to stand by its word [and not attack].
– Teacher, Dasht-e Archi
If assurances are given by both sides of the conflict [government and Taleban] that they really want peace, then local elders could play an effective mediation role. There’s a need for grassroots mobilisation to start a peace campaign. In our region, people respect jirgas and this could help bring peace to our area. I think there’s a dire need to have such an initiative to bring peace to Zurmat.
– Doctor, Zurmat
Nonetheless, not a single interviewee said anything about practical ways to start a grassroots peace mobilisation work or how it could gain wider traction to effect a change at the national level.
Some key informants believed a government-Taleban dialogue/negotiation could be brought about only after bilateral trust had begun to be built and a ceasefire was reached. In this context, a key informant from Andar, a 45-year-old teacher, recited a local proverb, “You can’t wash away blood with blood.” The same interviewee described how a prisoner swap might facilitate agreement on a ceasefire and get a peace process up and running:
One step towards peace would be if both the Taleban and the government released each other’s prisoners. That would be a milestone. Also, it would help bring them closer. The second necessary step is a ceasefire that both sides should work for and implement seriously. If the first step happens, the second step will also happen. But if both sides don’t work on this and they stick to their demands, I think reaching a ceasefire or peace will be difficult. If they don’t release the prisoners, they won’t take steps towards peace. If everybody is looking for excuses, it’s hard to reach a ceasefire and a successful peace.
Other interviewees explained why not only a ceasefire, but also impartial mediation and flexibility would be important to give peace a chance, as represented by the following quote by a local elder from Dasht-e Archi:
To achieve peace, there’s a desperate need to agree on a ceasefire. Without a ceasefire, discussion on other issues won’t produce any results. It’s very simple. Even in a small community when two sides fight or have some dispute, they reach out to elders to solve the issue. The first thing that elders suggest is to agree on a ceasefire or agree not to fight while the elders discuss the issue… I believe before entering into peace negotiations, there must be a ceasefire… The mediator should be neutral and independent… Both sides of the conflict should take part in the discussions. Both sides’ demands and suggestions should be carefully addressed… The government should show flexibility and the Taleban should also show flexibility and the international community should be neutral.
Similarly, a key informant from Qaysar, who is a local elder, said, “To achieve peace, there’s a need for [the conflict parties] to make a sacrifice.” This and other similar quotes referred to the need for the parties to the conflict to replace hard red lines with negotiable positions.
Organising peace from the top down
On the other hand, some key informants argued that peace could only be reached in a top-down process. They argued that those at the local level simply lacked the power to affect policy on a higher, leadership level. “I don’t think we can do anything to bring any change at the national level,” said a teacher from Kahmard. A religious scholar from Nawmish explained why he believed there was “no local solution,” explaining why he had reached a point of frustration and disillusionment:
There’s no local solution with the Taleban. We’ve tried it and we’ve failed every time. It’s been four years that Nawmish is [officially regarded as] a district. In these years, the representatives of the Nawmish community have offered a local ceasefire between the Taleban and the government forces in the area. We’ve approached them in the name of nationalism, Islamic teachings, culture and any diplomatic way possible to get them to sign a no-war treaty. They never accepted.
This view was also forcefully expressed elsewhere, particularly in Qaysar, but in other districts as well:
It’s not possible to achieve peace in Qaysar without talking to the Taleban’s leadership. The issue of peace and war is under the Taleban leadership council’s decision-making. The Taleban’s leaders have the authority to enter into peace or to continue war. It has nothing to do with their commanders in Qaysar. It’s impossible to solve this at the local level or via elders’ mediation because the local Taleban fighters in Qaysar neither respect the elders nor their decision.
– Local elder, Qaysar
It’s fully possible for the leaders of the government and the Taleban [to agree on a peace deal]. We saw it a couple of years ago [sic] when a ceasefire was announced. It was temporary, all over Afghanistan, Talebs came to the towns and cities and they hugged government forces and others. So they [the leaders] can make peace at a stroke, either among themselves or prompted by foreigners. Those on the ground just need a cue to make peace. The Taleban may have 50,000 members or so and they just need a signal [from above] to make peace with the government. A signal to lay down arms, come down [from the mountains] and make peace. It’s because they’re also thirsty for peace. They do want peace. They do want rest for themselves and their families.
– Social activist, Obeh
The conflict in Qaysar is out of our hands. It is in the hands of the leaders of the Taleban and the Afghan government. Both should find a suitable way to achieve sustainable peace.
– Shopkeeper, Qaysar
The fact that peace, in this view, depends on high-level decisions does not mean that there is no role for local influential figures. However, a farmer from Jalrez stressed, high-level decisions need to precede any meaningful local mediation:
I think making peace in Jalrez depends on how the Taleban leadership, the US and the Afghan government would make peace at the top level. The locals, be they the Taleban fighters, the Afghan national security forces or elders, don’t have the power or choice to make peace without permission from their superiors. The elders can solve small disputes, but not the ongoing war. Yes, if a peace agreement was signed by political leaders of the warring parties, then the elders would be able to mediate between the local Taleban fighters and the local Afghan forces that have fought against one another, or between them and the civilians who are either survivors or victims.
Finally, some key informants staunchly believed that neither war nor peace would be determined by Afghans alone; rather, in their view, the conflict is driven by regional and global powers that have pitted Afghans against each other to further their various interests in Afghanistan. This view is illustrated by the following three quotes:
People know that it’s out of the power of Afghans to bring peace or make plans for peace. Even low-ranking Taleban and government employees think that peace is in the hands of foreigners.
– Local NGO worker, Nad Ali
The Afghan war is out of Afghans’ hands. It’s a regional and even a global war. The regional countries and the global community have [their own] interests in war and in peace.
– Local elder, Zurmat
Peace will really come [in Afghanistan] only when the US, China, Saudi Arabia, Russia, Pakistan and other neighbouring countries want it.
– Local elder, Achin
One united voice on the need for a ‘good peace’
Although key informants differed in their views about the prospects of a ‘high peace’ ending the war in the districts and were divided over the relative role of bottom-up and top-down approaches to achieving peace in the country, they broadly had one thing in common. There was a consensus, either voiced explicitly or implicitly, that if there was to be peace this time in Afghanistan, it needed to be a “real peace” (solh-e waqe’i), a “genuine peace” (solh-e haqiqi) or simply a “good peace” (solh-e khob). In other words, such a peace should finish the war and not serve as a preamble to a new phase in the conflict. This is well represented by the following quote from Andar:
If they [government, Taleban and US] want to make peace now, they should make a good peace, because if there’s a bad peace, these people can go to war again.
Some key informants in some districts went further, arguing that a good peace was possible only if peace was not just made, but also built. For them, this included addressing what is currently causing and driving the ongoing war. An interviewee from Obeh, who is a local government employee, for example, asserted that so long as current fighters were illiterate and there were no jobs, a lasting peace was not possible:
There remain some bigger issues. One is illiteracy. So many people are illiterate or have only a low literacy level… Then there’s the issue of widespread unemployment. When many people are illiterate and unemployed, how can we expect peace to last for long? We might revert back to another crisis. Our society needs to change its way of life away from war.
A key informant in Kahmard, a teacher, said Afghanistan needed to break the vicious cycle of war it has been caught up in for so long:
Poverty feeds insecurity and insecurity leads to more corruption and poverty. We’re running in a circle of conflict, corruption, poverty and conflict again. It’s been like this as long as I remember, or maybe even since my father remembers. There should be an end to this.
Another interviewee from Kahmard, a businessman, pointed to corruption as the key factor that was ruining Afghanistan:
It’s the corruption that’s harming us and destroying this country more than the conflict and more than the Taleban… Peace for Afghanistan will come when there is a just and equal distribution of power and resources, which sounds very idealistic to even say it out loud. We’ll have peace and security in Afghanistan when there’s a fair distribution of power and resources. What we have now is a very small number of people who are controlling the power and wealth in the country. Even when it comes to the Taleban, I think a fair system of government would weaken their sources of grievance and you would no longer see people who stand at the roads and rob or kill people in the name of being Taleban. I believe a good government will solve the problem of the Taleban.
Last but not least, some key informants, in particular in Nawmish, believed that it was the details of peace that mattered most, in particular, whether such a peace could ensure the non-violent resolution of conflicts in Afghanistan and could stop parts of the population from feeling subjected to injustice or discrimination. When referring to justice, they included both accountability and punishment; however, there were also calls for reconciliation, forgiving one another and embracing a new chapter of living together. These perspectives are covered, explicitly and implicitly, by the following three quotes:
My most serious concern is the technical details of this peace. How will power be shared? How will the government operate in a ‘post-peace [deal] era, especially when the Taleban are also on board? If I were to have one condition for peace, it would be that justice should take place. Those who’ve killed innocent people, women and children, those who’ve opened fire on families, they should be brought to justice. That’s the only way we can accept a peace deal. I’ve lost three members of my family in the violence just last year. They killed them on the road while going to Kejran [district of Daikundi province]. There should be justice for them and for all those who’ve lost their lives.
– Shopkeeper, Nawmish
Our people are tired of war. [When there is peace] no one will be thinking about another war. Even with injustice, people will forgive one another because [we can] no longer tolerate this long war in Andar district.
– Businessman, Andar
People in Obeh are generally moderate, hospitable and receptive to change in a short period of time. They will accept new things quickly.
– Local government employee, Obeh
Conclusion
The diversity of local opinions in the ten districts across Afghanistan illustrates the complexity of the interplay between a high-level peace agreement and any actual peace at the local level.
When discussing whether a high-level peace agreement – between the Afghan government, the Taleban and the US – could end the war at the local level, many interviewees were, sometimes simultaneously, both surprisingly optimistic and severely sceptical. Those voicing optimistic opinions argued that once the two key actors involved in the war in their districts – the government and the Taleban – made peace, this would end the war and allow a strong government to emerge that could provide better governance, address local conflicts and root out any remaining militias or insurgents. Some of these views sounded so optimistic that they approached ‘magical thinking’ and seemed to suggest that a government-Taleban peace would also solve all of Afghanistan’s problems. It is possible that these views were mainly presented to argue how direly the government and the Taleban need to talk directly with each other for peace to be seen in the districts, rather than as a practical analysis.
When expressing scepticism, the interviewees focused on three major reasons why they doubted that a national peace deal might end the war in their locality: (a) there are no guarantees that the key parties – government, Taleban, US – would uphold and enforce a putative peace agreement; (b) there is a confusing plethora of loosely-controlled and unpredictable armed groups operating under the Taleban and government’s banners, including zurmanda (power-holders), who could destroy any peace; and (c) there is a fear that a new insurgency might arise, including by those who are against or left out of a peace agreement ‘rebranding’ and repositioning themselves.
On the issue of what can or should happen in the districts to contribute to achieving peace in the country, many interviewees were polarised and argued for either a bottom-up or a top-down approach. Those on the bottom-up side advocated a broad grassroots mobilisation, particularly by Afghanistan’s socially-respected and active figures, to help usher in a peaceful mind-set and build trust between the Afghan government and the Taleban. They suggested a few concrete measures such as impartial mediation, prisoner swaps and ceasefires. The ultimate goal would be to bring the two warring sides closer so they could sort out their differences by talking. Others argued that peace could only come through top-down interventions because those at the local level lacked the power to affect policy on a higher, leadership level. Others indicated that there was a role for both high-placed leaders and local influential figures in the sense that local mediation would become meaningful only after high-level decisions had been made. Some interviewees expressed the view that neither war nor peace would be determined by Afghans alone, if at all. They pointed to the complex regional and global dimensions of the conflict in Afghanistan.
In the midst of differing opinions on the prospects and approaches for peace, key informants had one thing in common: if there is going to be peace this time in Afghanistan, they said, it should be a ‘good peace.’ It should finish this war and not pave the way for the start of another. Some went even further by saying that peace should address what they saw as the drivers of war – illiteracy, unemployment, rampant corruption, unjust distribution of power and resources – so that Afghans, as an interviewee from Obeh put it, “[change their] way of life away from war.” The fact that this was a common theme in the interviews highlights both a deep desire for peace and the realisation – despite some apparent optimism – of how easy it is to get this fledgling peace process wrong. The fear for many was that Afghanistan would end up with a peace deal that failed to change the fundamental conditions that have repeatedly led to conflict.
Edited by Martine van Bijlert and Kate Clark
(1) It is not clear-cut whether Nawmish is a district of Helmand or Daikundi province. The recent presidential elections in the district were managed from Daikundi, but in other respects, it is governed from Helmand.
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: The Wire: The Wire News India, Latest News,News from India, Politics, External Affairs, Science, Economics, Gender and Culture


Title: Pakistan tight-lipped about its ISIS operatives in Afghanistan
New Delhi:Even as the majority of over 600 ISIS Khorasan operatives, who, along with hundreds of their family members, surrendered in Afghanistan last month, are from Pakistan, the Imran Khan government has remained tight-lipped about it.
Sources based in Kabul told IANS that Islamabad made no attempt to take back the women and children of the Pakistani ISIS operatives, who, along with others, were defeated by the US-Afghan coalition security forces in a massive counter-terror operation in Nangarhar province of eastern Afghanistan in November.
Nangarhar province was the center of the ISIS Khorasan operations in Afghanistan. Besides Pakistani nationals, Tajiks, Uzbeks, Russians, Iranians and Kurds were among those ISIS operatives who turned themselves in to the Afghan government.
Later, Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani who visited Jalalabad, capital of Nangarhar province and the US declared that the ISIS Khorasan Province had been wiped out. The ISIS has however refrained from issuing any statement on the defeat of the Khorasan province.
In 2015, in an expansionary move, ISIS created 'Wilayat Khorasan' (Khurasan Province), a historical region that includes parts of both Afghanistan and Pakistan. ISIS recruited defectors and disgruntled members from the Taliban. As a result, a turf war between Taliban and ISIS broke out in Nangarhar province, in which ISIS was able to seize territory.
On April 13, 2017, the US dropped its mother of non-nuclear bombs, the GBU-43/B Massive Ordnance Air Blast (MOAB), to destroy tunnel complexes used by ISIS Khorasan Province.
Last month, the coalition forces defeated them decisively, forcing hundreds to surrender along with their families, with most of them being Pakistani nationals who had infiltrated, four years ago, into Nangarhar province through the Durand Line --the border which Afghanistan has disputed since it was drawn by the British in 1893.
Sources in Kabul said that Pakistan has tried to hush the news given the enormous pressure from Financial Action Task Force (FATF), a global watchdog for money laundering and terror funding. "They are fencing the Durand Line so that they get to control whom they can send from Pakistan to Afghanistan and whom they will prevent from entering Pakistan. They have been sending mujahideen to Afghanistan just as they send them to Kashmir. But in both cases, they don't take back their people," sources in Jalalabad said.
Watch Times NowLIVE TVfor latest and breaking news fromIndiaand around theworld.

Title: Pakistan tight-lipped about its ISIS operatives in Afghanistan
New Delhi, Dec 28 :Even as the majority of over 600 ISIS Khorasan operatives, who, along with hundreds of their family members, surrendered in Afghanistan last month, are from Pakistan, the Imran Khan government has remained tight-lipped about it.
Sources based in Kabul told IANS that Islamabad made no attempt to take back the women and children of the Pakistani ISIS operatives, who, along with others, were defeated by the US-Afghan coalition security forces in a massive counter-terror operation in Nangarhar province of eastern Afghanistan in November.
Nangarhar province was the center of the ISIS Khorasan operations in Afghanistan. Besides Pakistani nationals, Tajiks, Uzbeks, Russians, Iranians and Kurds were among those ISIS operatives who turned themselves in to the Afghan government.
Later, Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani who visited Jalalabad, capital of Nangarhar province and the US declared that the ISIS Khorasan Province had been wiped out. The ISIS has however refrained from issuing any statement on the defeat of the Khorasan province.
In 2015, in an expansionary move, ISIS created 'Wilayat Khorasan' (Khurasan Province), a historical region that includes parts of both Afghanistan and Pakistan. ISIS recruited defectors and disgruntled members from theTaliban. As a result, a turf war between Taliban and ISIS broke out in Nangarhar province, in which ISIS was able to seize territory.
On April 13, 2017, the US dropped its mother of non-nuclear bombs, the GBU-43/B Massive Ordnance Air Blast (MOAB), to destroy tunnel complexes used by ISIS Khorasan Province.
Last month, the coalition forces defeated them decisively, forcing hundreds to surrender along with their families, with most of them being Pakistani nationals who had infiltrated, four years ago, into Nangarhar province through the Durand Line --the border which Afghanistan has disputed since it was drawn by the British in 1893.
Sources in Kabul said that Pakistan has tried to hush the news given the enormous pressure from Financial Action Task Force (FATF), a global watchdog for money laundering and terror funding. "They are fencing the Durand Line so that they get to control whom they can send from Pakistan to Afghanistan and whom they will prevent from entering Pakistan. They have been sending mujahideen to Afghanistan just as they send them to Kashmir. But in both cases, they don't take back their people," sources in Jalalabad said.
(Aarti Tikoo Singh can be contacted at aarti.tikoo.singh@gmail.com)

Title: Pakistan tight-lipped about its ISIS operatives in Afghanistan - Daijiworld.com
By Aarti Tikoo Singh
New Delhi, Dec 28 (IANS):Even as the majority of over 600 ISIS Khorasan operatives, who, along with hundreds of their family members, surrendered in Afghanistan last month, are from Pakistan, the Imran Khan government has remained tight-lipped about it.
Sources based in Kabul told IANS that Islamabad made no attempt to take back the women and children of the Pakistani ISIS operatives, who, along with others, were defeated by the US-Afghan coalition security forces in a massive counter-terror operation in Nangarhar province of eastern Afghanistan in November.

Nangarhar province was the center of the ISIS Khorasan operations in Afghanistan. Besides Pakistani nationals, Tajiks, Uzbeks, Russians, Iranians and Kurds were among those ISIS operatives who turned themselves in to the Afghan government.
Later, Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani who visited Jalalabad, capital of Nangarhar province and the US declared that the ISIS Khorasan Province had been wiped out. The ISIS has however refrained from issuing any statement on the defeat of the Khorasan province.
In 2015, in an expansionary move, ISIS created 'Wilayat Khorasan' (Khurasan Province), a historical region that includes parts of both Afghanistan and Pakistan. ISIS recruited defectors and disgruntled members from the Taliban. As a result, a turf war between Taliban and ISIS broke out in Nangarhar province, in which ISIS was able to seize territory.
On April 13, 2017, the US dropped its mother of non-nuclear bombs, the GBU-43/B Massive Ordnance Air Blast (MOAB), to destroy tunnel complexes used by ISIS Khorasan Province.
Last month, the coalition forces defeated them decisively, forcing hundreds to surrender along with their families, with most of them being Pakistani nationals who had infiltrated, four years ago, into Nangarhar province through the Durand Line --the border which Afghanistan has disputed since it was drawn by the British in 1893.
Sources in Kabul said that Pakistan has tried to hush the news given the enormous pressure from Financial Action Task Force (FATF), a global watchdog for money laundering and terror funding. "They are fencing the Durand Line so that they get to control whom they can send from Pakistan to Afghanistan and whom they will prevent from entering Pakistan. They have been sending mujahideen to Afghanistan just as they send them to Kashmir. But in both cases, they don't take back their people," sources in Jalalabad said.
Disclaimer:
Please write your correct name and email address. Kindly do not post any personal, abusive, defamatory, infringing, obscene, indecent, discriminatory or unlawful or similar comments. Daijiworld.com will not be responsible for any defamatory message posted under this article.
Please note that sending false messages to insult, defame, intimidate, mislead or deceive people or to intentionally cause public disorder is punishable under law. It is obligatory on Daijiworld to provide the IP address and other details of senders of such comments, to the authority concerned upon request.
Hence, sending offensive comments using daijiworld will be purely at your own risk, and in no way will Daijiworld.com be held responsible.
Daijiworld Residency,Airport Road, Bondel Post,Mangalore - 575 008
                            Karnataka IndiaTelephone : +91-824-2982023.General Enquiry: office@daijiworld.com,News & Info : news@daijiworld.com
Kishoo Enterprises,3rd Floor, Mandavi Trade Centre,
                            Kadiyali, Udupi – 576 102Telephone : 0091-820-4295571E-mail : udupi@daijiworld.com
Daijiworld Middle East FZE,P.O.Box: 84772, Dubai, UAETel: 971-50-6597629Fax: 971-4-2639207Email: dubai@daijiworld.com
Copyright © 2001 - 2024. All Rights Reserved.Published by Daijiworld Media Pvt Ltd., Mangalore.
Powered byATC Online LLP

Title: Pakistan tight-lipped about its ISIS operatives in Afghanistan - Daijiworld.com
By Aarti Tikoo Singh
New Delhi, Dec 28 (IANS):Even as the majority of over 600 ISIS Khorasan operatives, who, along with hundreds of their family members, surrendered in Afghanistan last month, are from Pakistan, the Imran Khan government has remained tight-lipped about it.
Sources based in Kabul told IANS that Islamabad made no attempt to take back the women and children of the Pakistani ISIS operatives, who, along with others, were defeated by the US-Afghan coalition security forces in a massive counter-terror operation in Nangarhar province of eastern Afghanistan in November.

Nangarhar province was the center of the ISIS Khorasan operations in Afghanistan. Besides Pakistani nationals, Tajiks, Uzbeks, Russians, Iranians and Kurds were among those ISIS operatives who turned themselves in to the Afghan government.
Later, Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani who visited Jalalabad, capital of Nangarhar province and the US declared that the ISIS Khorasan Province had been wiped out. The ISIS has however refrained from issuing any statement on the defeat of the Khorasan province.
In 2015, in an expansionary move, ISIS created 'Wilayat Khorasan' (Khurasan Province), a historical region that includes parts of both Afghanistan and Pakistan. ISIS recruited defectors and disgruntled members from the Taliban. As a result, a turf war between Taliban and ISIS broke out in Nangarhar province, in which ISIS was able to seize territory.
On April 13, 2017, the US dropped its mother of non-nuclear bombs, the GBU-43/B Massive Ordnance Air Blast (MOAB), to destroy tunnel complexes used by ISIS Khorasan Province.
Last month, the coalition forces defeated them decisively, forcing hundreds to surrender along with their families, with most of them being Pakistani nationals who had infiltrated, four years ago, into Nangarhar province through the Durand Line --the border which Afghanistan has disputed since it was drawn by the British in 1893.
Sources in Kabul said that Pakistan has tried to hush the news given the enormous pressure from Financial Action Task Force (FATF), a global watchdog for money laundering and terror funding. "They are fencing the Durand Line so that they get to control whom they can send from Pakistan to Afghanistan and whom they will prevent from entering Pakistan. They have been sending mujahideen to Afghanistan just as they send them to Kashmir. But in both cases, they don't take back their people," sources in Jalalabad said.
Disclaimer:
Please write your correct name and email address. Kindly do not post any personal, abusive, defamatory, infringing, obscene, indecent, discriminatory or unlawful or similar comments. Daijiworld.com will not be responsible for any defamatory message posted under this article.
Please note that sending false messages to insult, defame, intimidate, mislead or deceive people or to intentionally cause public disorder is punishable under law. It is obligatory on Daijiworld to provide the IP address and other details of senders of such comments, to the authority concerned upon request.
Hence, sending offensive comments using daijiworld will be purely at your own risk, and in no way will Daijiworld.com be held responsible.
Daijiworld Residency,Airport Road, Bondel Post,Mangalore - 575 008
                            Karnataka IndiaTelephone : +91-824-2982023.General Enquiry: office@daijiworld.com,News & Info : news@daijiworld.com
Kishoo Enterprises,3rd Floor, Mandavi Trade Centre,
                            Kadiyali, Udupi – 576 102Telephone : 0091-820-4295571E-mail : udupi@daijiworld.com
Daijiworld Middle East FZE,P.O.Box: 84772, Dubai, UAETel: 971-50-6597629Fax: 971-4-2639207Email: dubai@daijiworld.com
Copyright © 2001 - 2024. All Rights Reserved.Published by Daijiworld Media Pvt Ltd., Mangalore.
Powered byATC Online LLP

Title: ISIS is taking a beating in Afghanistan setting the stage for potential US troop withdrawal
Sustained U.S. and Afghan operations combating the Afghanistan branch of the Islamic State has led to a near-collapse of the jihadist group in eastern Afghanistan — helping clear a hurdle for an American withdrawal from the country.
President Donald Trump touted success of recent operations against the Islamic extremist group duringa Thanksgiving Day surprise visitto American troops at Bagram Airfield detailing that U.S. forces were “wiping” out ISIS militants “left and right.”
“There’s almost nothing left in this area. And al-Qaida, the same thing. And tremendous progress,” Trump told U.S. troops during the visit. “And we — we’ve got them down to very low numbers. We’ll have that totally taken care of in a very short period of time.”
TheNew York Times, citing a Western official, reported that the number of ISIS militants had dwindled down to roughly 300 from previous estimates that claimed the group was fielding several thousand fighters.
A recentUN reportsaid ISIS terrorists in Afghanistan numbered between 2,500 and 4,000 fighters. A 2019DoD reporton Afghanistan estimates the size of the terrorist group to be less than 2,000 fighters.
Zalmay Khalilzad, Trump’s envoy leading peace negotiations with the Taliban, credited U.S. and Afghan operations against ISIS, but also Taliban efforts to defeat the group.
“The recent campaign in Nangarhar is one example. Effective operations by US/Coalition & Afghan security forces, as well as the Taliban, led to ISIS-K losing territory & fighters. Hundreds surrendered. ISIS-K hasn’t been eliminated but this is real progress,” Khalilzad tweeted Tuesday.
Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, who met Trump at Bagram and spoke to U.S. and Afghan troops during Thanksgiving, said that Afghan and American troops had “inflicted an incredible defeat on ISIS in Nangarhar.”
National security experts and critics of a U.S. draw down if Afghanistan oft warn of the plethora of terror groups operating in Afghanistan as a reason to maintain as U.S. presence in the region.
Fears of an ISIS resurgence in Afghanistan has become a major hurdle for U.S. troops seeking to withdraw from the region after nearly 18 years of war.
“We’re doing a tremendous job. And, as you know, a big part of that job is ISIS — certainly the biggest — and al Qaida,” Trump told U.S. troops at Bagram.
A recent Defense Departmentinspector generalreport noted that despite U.S. efforts to seek a negotiated settlement with the Taliban, terrorists groups in the country will still remain a threat.
The DoD said that the U.S. will need to maintain a “robust” counterterrorism capacity for the “foreseeable future,” in Afghanistan, according to the IG report.
Analysts and military officials routinely cite that Afghanistan is a hotbed for nearly 20 terrorist groups.
A former U.S. defense official told Military Times that the size of any counterterroism footprint that remains in Afghanistan will depend on what groups the U.S. and Afghan government consider a threat.
“Its almost certainly going to include the Islamic State, but I don’t know of the Haqqanis will fall into the category. Probably not, if there’s a real peace,” the former defense official said.
The Haqqani network is an affiliate of the Taliban and was designated a terrorist group by the U.S. State Department in 2012.
“If there’s a limited target list, eg only IS, then the presence might be small and geographically dedicated in the east of the country,” the former defense official explained.
Trump told U.S. troops at Bagram that negotiations that peace negotiations with the Taliban were back on.Trump canceled the negotiationsin September after a deadly bombing by the Taliban claimed the life of a U.S. service member.
“The Taliban wants to make a deal. We’ll see if they want to make a deal. It’s got to be a real deal, but we’ll see,” Trump said. “And they only want to make a deal because you’re doing a great job. That’s the only reason they want to make a deal."
The U.S. is amid one of its most intensive bombing campaigns targeting Taliban militants. There are currently 13,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan.
According to aReuter’s story, Secretary of Defense Mark Esper said that a U.S. draw down of forces in Afghanistan was “not necessarily” linked to a peace deal with the Taliban.
Shawn Snow is the senior reporter for Marine Corps Times and a Marine Corps veteran.
Military Times  © 2024

Title: Afghanistan: Weekly Humanitarian Update (2 December – 8 December 2019) - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Northeast:Over 13,000 people received humanitarian aid Fighting between the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) and a NonState Armed Group (NSAG) continued in Kunduz and Baghlan provinces.
According to initial reports, around 1,000 families (approximately 7,000 people) were displaced due to ongoing clashes in Kunduz province. Armed clashes reportedly intensified in Khan Abad district in Kunduz along the road between Kunduz and Taloqan. An NSAG allegedly prevented the movement of civilians on the main roads linking Kunduz to Taloqan and Pul-e-Khumri roads and reportedly killed two civilians including a woman in the Malarghi area in Kunduz Province on 2 December.Across the region, 13,139 people received humanitarian assistance.
Moreover, 1,750 internally displaced people (IDPs) who were affected by conflict were assessed and will receive assistance in the coming days in Baghlan and Kunduz provinces.
West: 9,000 people received cash aid for winterBased on the latest profiling exercise, over 77,000 IDPs (almost 18,000 families) are still residing in informal IDP sites in Hirat province. On 4 December, humanitarian partners began distributing winterisation assistance to drought-affected IDPs (since 2018) in Hirat province. During the reported period, 2,000 IDP families (about 9,000 people) received cash assistance for winter in the amount of 15,500 AFG.
Partners are working with clusters and donors to ensure that all remaining IDPs receive critical assistance as temperature continues to drop.
As a result of joint efforts and advocacy, local authorities in Badghis were able to procure and dispatch food items to 300 stranded families (approximately 2,100 people) and medical supplies for the local health facility in the Jawand District Administration Centre. Access to the district centre has been obstructed for almost one year, including movement of commercial goods and services. Road access is further hampered by an NSAG and reports of Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs).
East: Six people killed, including the head of an INGOFighting and military operations continued in Nangarhar and various districts in Kunar and Laghman provinces.
Interagency assessment teams identified 27,741 IDPs across the region as being in need who will receive humanitarian assistance in the coming days. 12,561 IDPs were reached with cash, food rations, WASH, health services and relief items such as items for winter.
The number of IDPs from Achin, Nangarhar province displaced to Jalalabad has risen to 844. The IDPs continue to be sheltered in a Government facility in Jalalabad City. The displaced include 505 children and 339 women.
Humanitarian partners continued life-saving humanitarian activities. The conditions at the site have reportedly improved following WASH and health responses, while food distributions are ongoing. Humanitarian partners are providing nutrition supplies for children and lactating mothers.
On 4 December, six people including the head of an international Non-Government Organisation (INGO) were killed when their vehicle was fired upon in Jalalabad city. The director of the INGO had worked in Afghanistan since 2008 and was awarded honorary Afghan citizenship for his work in Nangarhar province. No group has claimed the attack thus far. Prior to this attack, 32 aid workers had been killed, 41 injured and 57 abducted thus far in 2019.
North: Clashes continued in five provinces, IDPs flee to Maymana CityClashes between ANSF and an NSAG continued in Balkh, Faryab, Jawzjan, Sar-e-Pul and Samangan provinces.Fighting in different districts in Faryab province displaced people to Maymana city.Inter-agency assessment teams verified 1,596 people displaced by conflict in Balkh, Faryab, Jawzjan and Sar-ePul provinces. 1,771 IDPs received humanitarian assistance in Balkh and Faryab provinces.
In the North, demonstrations continued against the recount of presidential election votes affecting humanitarian coordination, assessments and response in the provinces of Balkh, Jawzjan, Sar-e-Pul, Faryab and Samangan.
South: Ongoing conflict displaced thousandsConflict between an NSAG and ANSF continued to affect civilians and displaced thousands of people in Tirinkot city, Uruzgan province and in Shah Wali Kot district, Kandahar province. Three members of a family were reportedly killed by an IED in Nad-e-Ali and Marja areas during the last week.
Last week, 1,130 IDPs who were affected by conflict received humanitarian assistance in Kandahar and Zabul provinces. Interagency assessments are ongoing to identify people who were displaced by conflict in Hilmand, Nimroz and Zabul provinces.
Centre: Over 4,500 people received winter assistanceLast week, inter-agency teams identified 890 IDPs to receive humanitarian assistance in Kabul and Paktika provinces in the coming days. Also, 4,595 people received winter assistance across the Central Highlands.
Moreover, assessments of vulnerable families in need of winter assistance is ongoing in Bamyan, Daykundi, Khost, Kapisa, Paktya and Maidan Wardak provinces.
On 1 December, a health clinic run by an NGO was reportedly affected by ANSF military operations in Andar district in Ghazni province. 0n 28 November, airstrikes on Ali Sher district in Khost province reportedly killed a family of five including two women and a new born baby.
Funding updatesThe fourth Reserve Allocation of the Afghanistan Humanitarian Fund in 2019 was completed. US $6.16 million was allocated to 10 projects covering nutrition, protection, and food security and agriculture.
For further information, please contact:Ian Ridley, Head of Office, OCHA Afghanistan, ridleyi@un.orgNoroarisoa Rakotomalala, Deputy Head of Office, OCHA Afghanistan, rakotomalala@un.orgLinda Tom, Public Information Officer, OCHA Afghanistan, toml@un.org, Cell: +93 79300 11 10For more information, please visit: unocha.org | reliefweb.intfacebook.com/UNOCHAAfghanistan | twitter.com/OCHAAfg
Afghanistan+ 4 more
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: US aims to keep 10,000 troops in Afghanistan: WSJ report - World - DAWN.COM
— File Photo by Reuters
WASHINGTON: The administration of President Barack Obama aims to keep around 10,000 US troops in Afghanistan after formal combat operations in that country end in 2014, The Wall Street Journal reported late Sunday.
Citing unnamed senior US officials, the newspaper said the plan was in line with recommendations presented by General John Allen, commander of US and international forces in Afghanistan, who has proposed a force between 6,000 and 15,000 US troops.
This force will conduct training and counterterrorism operations after the Nato mission in Afghanistan formally concludes at the end of 2014, the report said.
About 67,000 US troops are currently deployed in Afghanistan alongside 37,000 coalition troops and 337,000 local soldiers and police that make up the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF).
The United States and Afghanistan launched crucial talks on November 15 on the status of US forces remaining in Afghanistan after the Nato withdrawal of combat troops in 2014.
The US has stressed that it is not seeking permanent bases in Afghanistan.
It is also considered likely to shy away from a security guarantee, which would require it to come to the nation's assistance against aggressors.
That, however, is seen as one of the targets of Afghan negotiators.
Afghan President Hamid Karzai is said to be willing to accept a US troop presence post-2014 as long as his key demands are met.
According to the Journal, his main request is that American forces come under the jurisdiction of Afghan courts.
However, the paper said, some defense analysts outside of the US government believe that the training and counterterrorism mission would require a much larger US presence, perhaps as many as 30,000 troops.
Dear visitor, the comments section is undergoing an overhaul and will return soon.
Compunode.com Pvt. Ltd. (www.compunode.com).Designed forDawn.
Copyright © 2024, Dawn
NewsKit Publishing Platform

Title: Afghanistan | ReliefWeb Response
Afghanistan
Highlights

Humanitarian partners are ramping up response efforts following heavy windstorms, severe rainfall and flash floods that struck multiple districts of Badakhshan, Baghlan, Kunar, Laghman, Nangarhar and Nuristan provinces in eastern and northeastern Afghanistan on 15 and…
Afghanistan is facing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis with a very real risk of systemic collapse and human catastrophe.
PEOPLE IN NEED:29.2M |PLANNED REACH:17.3MINTER-SECTOR REACH:1.9M |OVERALL REACHED:12.1MREQUIREMENTS (US$):$3.06B |RECEIVED (US$):735.2M
This multi-sectoral Response Plan requires approximately $93.6 million to support 114,000 earthquake-affected people in Herat.
Individuals fled their homes dueto conflict. Displacement affects all people differently.
Afghanistan is prone to earthquakes, flooding, drought, landslides and avalanches.
Humanitarian Operational Presence and Operational Capacity.
Concise operational document to support the coordination of humanitarian response in Afghanistan.
Visual of key issues and trends related to the Afghanistan humanitarian response.
Afghanistan
Background
In an increasingly complex operating environment, stronger coordination around humanitarian needs assessments is critical to enable effective assessment of multi-dimensional needs; optimise available resources (including use of trained enumerators); reduce the burden on key informants; and…
Afghanistan
Afghanistan is facing the devastating effects of almost forty years of war, increasing poverty and natural disasters, all of which were amplified by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. At the beginning of 2021, almost 17…
Afghanistan
Overview
Due to security concerns and socio-cultural barriers, some female personnel may face challenges when travelling for work or participating in other professional activities. These persistent barriers to full participation in the workforce have resulted in diminished…
Afghanistan
UN announces Transitional Engagement Framework (TEF) for Afghanistan to save lives, sustain services and preserve community systems
Kabul, Geneva, New York, 26 January 2022 – The UN team in Afghanistan has launched its One-UN Transitional Engagement Framework…

Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services



Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:53Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:53Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Obtaining Situation in Afghanistan | VT Foreign Policy

Asif Haroon Raja
The US-NATO-ANSF military operations against the Taliban in Afghanistan have been going on since October 7, 2001 relentlessly and have now reached a stalemate. For all practical purposes, the US had lost the war after it pulled out bulk of 150,000 ISAF troops in December 2014 and allowed its chief foe Taliban to gain initiative and an upper edge in the battlefield. The US is however refusing to accept its defeat and is prolonging its stay.
After abandoning boots on ground strategy and relying on airpower and weak Afghan National Army, the occupation forces are locked up in 8 military bases with limited freedom of action. The 3,52000 strong ANSF have suffered extremely heavy casualties since 2016. On average, their casualty rate has been 5000 per year.
The occupiers are in a quandary since they can neither convert their defeat into victory, nor can contain the Taliban offensive, or can pressurize them to ceasefire and sign the peace deal on their terms. They are caught in a quagmire of their own making in which they can neither stay for long, nor can they curtail casualties, or can pullout and exit safely and honorably. They are surviving on the logistic routes provided by Pakistan and are also dependent upon Pakistan for their departure.
The songs of human rights, women rights, fruits of democracy have all evaporated in thin air. And so has the bloated arrogance over its invincibility after the US agreed that political solution was the only viable option to restore peace and for that purpose sat across the table to hold talks with so-called terrorists and beseech them to ceasefire.
The Taliban having gained initiative and a decisive military edge over the occupiers and collaborators in 2015, are constantly attacking high value targets all over the country and are constantly gaining space. No respite was given during the nine rounds of peace talks. In the last session at Doha, all friction points had been settled and Trump had extended an invitation to the Taliban leadership to sign the peace agreement at Camp David.
The peace process was however, halted after Trump abruptly canceled the meeting scheduled on 11 September, 2019 on a flimsy excuse of death of one US sergeant. The spoilers once again succeeded in derailing peace and letting the orgy of bloodshed to continue. Disruption of peace process didn’t bring any change in aggressiveness of the Taliban and they continued to strike targets and draw blood. Major victims of the firefight between the two rivals are the ordinary civilians whose death rate has increased significantly.
Presidential election was held on 28 September despite disturbed security situation but the results have so far not been announced due to widespread irregularities. Political uncertainty favor the Taliban and disfavors Ashraf Ghani.
In October, Zalmay Khalilzad was once again sent to renew talks and his efforts helped in swap over of prisoners and to lower tensions. In November, one American and one Australian in captivity of Taliban were freed in exchange of three Taliban prisoners including Anas Haqqani detained in Bagram jail. However, the month of November proved costly for Americans; 19 US soldiers died in combat. Trump made an unannounced visit to Bagram airbase on 28 Nov. While addressing the troops he reaffirmed his desire to reduce the US troops by 5-8000. He announced that talks with the Taliban were being resumed.
Suicide attack on Bagram airbase on 11 Dec was the biggest attack in the 18-year war causing heavy casualties in men and material. It jolted the US administration as well as Pentagon and impelled them to resume peace talks in real earnest. The 10thround has commenced at Doha but ceasefire and direct talks with Kabul remain the sticking in points.
It is yet not clear whether a breakthrough will be achieved. While the Taliban have so far not hinted at agreeing to ceasefire as claimed by Trump, the spoilers are still active to scuttle peace process.
In case peace deal is signed and the war torn Afghanistan become peaceful, the biggest losers would be India, puppet regime in Kabul, Israel, Pentagon, US security contractors, drug mafia and Afghan warlords, all of them nurturing mercantile interests. India wants to retain its perverse influence in Kabul so as to draw maximum economic benefits from next door Central Asian States, and to pose twin threat to the security of Pakistan. Regime in Kabul knows that without the crutches of USA, it will fall instantly. Pentagon wants arms industry of military industrial complex to garner maximum profits. Others have their own commercial interests. The US also realizes that control over Eurasia would ensure its world domination.
These vested entities had egged on George Bush and Obama to remain focused on use of force. They had prevented Obama from making a clean break in December 2014 and compelled him to leave behind Resolute Support Group. Same pressure groups pressurized Trump to increase force level and to drop more bombs in 2018 than ever before. Now they are not letting him to withdraw 15000 US troops and want the war to drag on. He is being scared that complete withdrawal would be catastrophic for the US geo-strategic and geo-economics interests in the region.
They are least concerned that Afghan war has become the longest, bloodiest and deadliest in the US history which has surpassed the toll of the two Great Wars. It has cost $ 2 trillion and 2500 fatalities to USA apart from tens of thousands of injuries caused to the US soldiers and the social trauma suffered by the families of the victims.
The US is mindful of the growing influence of Russia, China and Iran in Afghanistan and their closeness with the Taliban, which is detrimental to its geo-strategic and geo-economic ambitions in this region. China’s BRI project has unnerved the sole super power since it has the potential to make China the leading economic power of the world by 2025. That is why, the US has accelerated trade war with China.
The US had occupied Afghanistan with a view to make it a permanent military garrison and by virtue of its strategic location, be able to meddle into the affairs of China, Russia, Iran, denuclearize Pakistan, oversee Middle East and above all gain monopoly over the resource rich Eurasian belt stretching from Central Asia to the Caspian Sea. It also had eyes on opium and minerals like lithium in Afghanistan.
What is most upsetting for USA is that in spite of spending colossal amount and using excessive force, it has not been able to accomplish single objective. Conversely, it has lost its prestige and élan and today it finds itself in lose-lose situation. It has come to this sorry pass because of its insincerity of purpose, evil designs, and wrong selection of allies that have been pursuing their own selfish agenda.
Another reason is weak and visionless military commanders, overestimating theirs and underestimating the capabilities of foes, painting rosy picture and imagining that they are winning the war. Devoid of fundamental understanding of Afghanistan, they didn’t have foggiest idea as to why they were fighting the purposeless longest war and how to keep their under commands motivated. They didn’t learn any lesson from history that Afghanistan has been the traditional graveyard of super powers where it was easy for the victors to barge in but near impossible to extricate safely. The ghost of Vietnam is now stalking and haunting the very being of Americans operating in Afghanistan.
Even after reaching the edge of precipice, the US leaders are still hoping against hope that they will snatch victory out of the jaws of sure defeat. Gen Nicholson stated in November 2017 that the ANSF would expand control over 80% of Afghan territory in next two years. It was a shot in the dark and devoid of emerging ground realities. Contrary to the claims made by senior US officials that progress was being made in Afghanistan, the fact is that the Taliban have control over 56% of the territory and the rest is contested. The government writ is confined to capital cities only, which are also frequently targeted by the Taliban.
The Washington Post of December 9 has spilled the beans. Quoting official documents, it stated that war is unwinnable, and that the American people have constantly been lied to. The Pentagon papers reveal the impressions of US officials that after toppling Taliban regime, killing Osama bin Laden and dismantling Al-Qaeda with the help of Pakistan, the US had no business to stay on and undermine its reputation. All reports initiated from Kabul to Washington presented “All OK”, whereas on ground nothing was OK.
Failing to defeat the Taliban in the battleground, the US has been trying to weaken the Taliban by dividing them but failed. Having failed on all fronts, the US instead of taking corrective measures, found Pakistan a convenient scapegoat and held it responsible for all its failures. To hide its embarrassment, it derives some satisfaction by whipping Pakistan. The US is now exerting pressure on Islamabad to force the Taliban to ceasefire, hold direct talks with the regime in Kabul, share power with them, and allow the US to retain few military bases. Or else fight and defeat them.
Pakistan has suffered the most in fighting the US imposed war on terror and servilely abiding to its dictates. It has also produced best results against terrorism, but instead of being rewarded, it is accused, insulted and punished for uncommitted sins. India and Afghanistan have been in the forefront to conduct proxy war as well as propaganda war against Pakistan. On account of policy of appeasement pursued by Pakistan, the trio has been successful in selling its narrative to the world that Pakistan is a terror abetting state and a nursery of terrorism. From the time of Gen Musharraf, Pakistan has been receiving invectives and lashes without a whimper thereby encouraging the real offenders to indulge in one-sided defamation campaign unobtrusively.
The US which is the strategic partner of India and the ruling regime in Kabul has thoroughly misused Pakistan to serve its self-seeking interests. Pakistan was taken on board as a tactical partner for the achievement of short-term objectives but was always regarded as a target. Pakistan has been subjected to series of conspiracies, covert and overt operations for over 16 years relentlessly. In collusion with India, Afghanistan, Israel and the West, the US has now stepped up the hybrid war using all possible kinetic and non-kinetic resources to make Pakistan a compliant state. Billions are being spent on proxies, media, NGOs.
Pakistan’s economy which is reeling under the weight of mountain of debt is being targeted through IMF and FATF in addition to fomenting bedlam. India’s aggressive posturing since February 24th, followed by the August 5 action in Indian Occupied Kashmir, are being reinforced with series of internal disturbances such as PTM movement, Azadi March led by Maulana Fazlur Rehman, controversial decision given by the Chief Justice regarding extension of the Army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa, students agitations demanding restoration of student unions, and now the lawyers-doctors clash at Lahore. These disturbances are designed to deflect the attention of the world from the sin committed by Modi regime in Kashmir and to destabilize the PTI govt.
Modi’s misadventure in occupied Kashmir is proving costly. The spirits of the Kashmiris locked up since 5 August, denied of basic human rights and subjected to worst torture have not dampened. As predicted, the violent clashes in the northeastern states particularly in Assam in reaction to the recently passed controversial citizenship law, and protests in other parts of India in reaction to Modi regime’s fascism against minorities and craze for Hindutva might prove fatal for the unity of India. Likewise, if Trump further delays the departure of US troops from the inferno of Afghanistan, the end result could be catastrophic.
The writer is retired Brig Gen, war veteran, defence & security analyst, columnist, author of five books, Chairman Thinkers Forum Pakistan, Director Measac research Centre, member think tank PESS.asifharoonraja@gmail.com

Brig. General Asif Haroon Raja is on the board of advisors for Opinion Maker.  He holds an MSc war studies degree.  A second-generation officer, he fought the epic battle of Hilli in northwest East Bengal during 1971 war,
He served as Directing Staff Command & Staff College, Defence Attaché Egypt, and Sudan and Dean of Corps of Military Attaches in Cairo. He commanded the heaviest brigade in Kashmir. He is tri-lingual and speaks English, Pashto, and Punjabi fluently.
Currently, he is a defense analyst and columnist and writes articles on security, defense, and political matters for numerous international/national publications.  He is chairman at the Thinkers Forum Pakistan, Director Measac Research Centre, & Member CWC PESS & Veterans Think Tank
He is also the author of many books;  ‘Battle of Hilli’, ‘1948, 1965 & 1971 Kashmir Battles and Freedom Struggle’, ‘Muhammad bin Qasim to Gen Musharraf’, and Roots of 1971 Tragedy’.  His latest book is ‘Tangled knot of Kashmir : Indo-Pakistan antagonism: vol. 1 and vol. 2″


Title: U.S. officials failed to devise a clear strategy for the war in Afghanistan, documents show - Anchorage Daily News
Obituaries•
Games - New!•
ADN Store•
e-Edition•
Today's Paper•
Sponsored Content•
Promotions
e-Edition•
Today's Paper•
Games - New!•
Obituaries•
ADN Store•
Promotions•
Sponsored Content•
Manage account
A bird takes flight in May 2014 as the sun rises over Arlington National Cemetery in section 60, where many Iraq and Afghanistan war dead are buried in the section. (Photo for The Washington Post by Amanda Voisard)
In the beginning, the rationale for invading Afghanistan was clear: to destroy al-Qaida, topple the Taliban and prevent a repeat of the 9/11 terrorist attacks.
Within six months, the United States had largely accomplished what it set out to do. The leaders of al-Qaida and the Taliban were dead, captured or in hiding.
But then the U.S. government committed a fundamental mistake it would repeat again and again over the next 17 years, according to a cache of government documents obtained by The Washington Post.
In hundreds of confidential interviews that constitute a secret history of the war, U.S. and allied officials admitted they veered off in directions that had little to do with al-Qaida or 9/11. By expanding the original mission, they said they adopted fatally flawed warfighting strategies based on misguided assumptions about a country they did not understand.
The result: an unwinnable conflict with no easy way out.
"If there was ever a notion of mission creep it is Afghanistan," said Richard Boucher, who served as the State Department's top diplomat for South Asia from 2006 to 2009, according to a transcript of what he told government interviewers in 2015. He added: "We have to say good enough is good enough. That is why we are there 15 years later. We are trying to achieve the unachievable instead of achieving the achievable."
[Confidential documents reveal U.S. officials failed to tell the truth about the war in Afghanistan]
In unusually candid interviews, officials who served under Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama said both leaders failed in their most important task as commanders in chief - to devise a clear strategy with concise, attainable objectives.
Diplomats and military commanders acknowledged they struggled to answer simple questions: Who is the enemy? Whom can we count on as allies? How will we know when we have won?
Damulla Mohammad Nazar, 80, describes Taliban atrocities in Dasht-e Qalat, in northeastern Afghanistan, in October 2001. (Washington Post photo by Lois Raimondo)
Northern Alliance fighters in Chaghatay, Afghanistan, in November 2001. (Washington Post photo by Lois Raimondo)
Their strategies differed, but Bush and Obama both committed early blunders that they never recovered from, according to the interviews.
After a succession of quick military victories in 2001 and early 2002, Bush decided to keep a light force of U.S. troops in Afghanistan indefinitely to hunt suspected terrorists. Soon, however, he made plans to invade another nation - Iraq - and Afghanistan quickly became an afterthought.
James Dobbins, a career diplomat who served as a special envoy for Afghanistan under Bush and Obama, told government interviewers it was a hubristic mistake that should have been obvious from the start.
"First, you know, sort of just invade only one country at a time. I mean that seriously," Dobbins said, according to a transcript of his remarks. "They take a lot of high-level time and attention and we'll overload the system if we do more than one of these at a time."
By the time Obama took office in 2009, al-Qaida had largely vanished from Afghanistan. But the Taliban had made a comeback.
Obama tore up Bush's counterterrorism strategy and approved a polar-opposite plan - a massive counterinsurgency campaign, backed by 150,000 U.S. and NATO troops, as well as tons of aid for a weak Afghan government.
In contrast with Bush, Obama imposed strict deadlines and promised to bring home all U.S. troops by the end of his presidency.
But Obama's strategy was also destined to fail. U.S., NATO and Afghan officials told government interviewers that it tried to accomplish too much, too quickly, and depended on an Afghan government that was corrupt and dysfunctional.
Worse, they said, Obama tried to set artificial dates for ending the war before it was over. All the Taliban had to do was wait him out.
"There were a number of faulty assumptions in the strategy: Afghanistan is ready for democracy overnight, the population will support the government in a short time frame, more of everything is better," Bob Crowley, a retired Army colonel who served as a counterinsurgency adviser in 2013 and 2014, told government interviewers.
Over the past 18 years, more than 775,000 U.S. troops have deployed to Afghanistan, many repeatedly. Of those, 2,300 died there and 20,589 came home wounded, according to Defense Department figures.
Spec. Robert Lewis Warren, wounded in a Taliban ambush months before, shaves his head in Washington in 2010, days before undergoing surgery to repair his skull. (Washington Post photo by Marvin Joseph)
Today, about 13,000 U.S. troops are still in Afghanistan. The U.S. military acknowledges the Taliban is stronger now than at any point since 2001. Yet there has been no comprehensive public reckoning for the strategic failures behind the longest war in American history.
There has been no Afghanistan version of the 9/11 Commission, which held the government to account for the worst terrorist attack on American soil; no Afghanistan version of the Fulbright Hearings, when senators aggressively questioned the war in Vietnam; no Afghanistan version of the Army's official, 1,300-page, introspective history of the war in Iraq.
In 2014, a small federal agency created by Congress decided to try to fill the void.
The Office of the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, known as SIGAR, launched an $11 million project - titled "Lessons Learned" - to study the war's core mistakes. After interviewing more than 600 people, agency researchers published seven reports that recommended policy changes.
To avoid controversy, SIGAR sanitized the harshest criticisms from the Lessons Learned interviews and omitted the names of more than 90% of the people it spoke with. It also scrapped plans to publish a separate report on deficiencies in the Afghan war strategy.
After a three-year legal battle, The Washington Post obtained notes and transcripts, as well as several audio recordings, from more than 400 of the interviews. In stark language, the documents reveal that people who were directly involved in the war could not shake their doubts about the strategy and mission, even as Bush, Obama and, later, President Donald Trump told the American people it was necessary to keep fighting.
"What were we actually doing in that country?" an unidentified U.S. official who served as a liaison to NATO said in a government interview. "What are our objectives? Nation-building? Women's rights? . . . It was never fully clear in our own minds what the established goals and timelines were."
Jeffrey Eggers, a retired Navy SEAL and White House official under Bush and Obama, said few people paused to question the very premise for keeping U.S. troops in Afghanistan.
"Why did we make the Taliban the enemy when we were attacked by al-Qaida? Why did we want to defeat the Taliban?" Eggers said in a Lessons Learned interview. "Collectively the system is incapable of taking a step back to question basic assumptions."
Boucher, a career diplomat who also served as chief State Department spokesman under Bush, said U.S. officials did not know what they were doing.
"First, we went in to get al-Qaida, and to get al-Qaida out of Afghanistan, and even without killing bin Laden we did that," Boucher told government interviewers. "The Taliban was shooting back at us so we started shooting at them and they became the enemy. Ultimately, we kept expanding the mission."
Rumsfeld's premature declaration was the first of many times that senior U.S. leaders mistakenly assumed they could end the war on their terms. The Taliban was beaten down but hardly gone.
Lulled into overconfidence by the apparent ease of conquering Afghanistan, the Bush administration refused to sit down with defeated Taliban leaders to negotiate a lasting peace - a decision U.S. officials would later regret.
The Taliban was excluded from international conferences and Afghan gatherings from 2001 to 2003 that drew up a new government, even though some Taliban figures had shown a willingness to join in. Instead, the United States posted bounties for their capture and sent hundreds to the military prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
"A major mistake we made was treating the Taliban the same as al-Qaida," Barnett Rubin, an American academic expert on Afghanistan who served as an adviser to the United Nations at the time, told government interviewers. "Key Taliban leaders were interested in giving the new system a chance, but we didn't give them a chance."
The Taliban was not involved in the 9/11 attacks; none of the hijackers or planners were Afghans. But the Bush administration categorized Taliban leaders as terrorists because they had given al-Qaida sanctuary and refused to hand over Osama bin Laden.
While the Taliban was easy to demonize because of its brutality and religious fanaticism, the movement proved too large and ingrained in Afghan society to eradicate.
"Everyone wanted the Taliban to disappear," Rubin said in a second Lessons Learned interview. "There was not much appetite for what we called threat reduction, for regional diplomacy and bringing the Taliban into the peace process."
An unnamed U.N. official agreed, telling interviewers that it was the biggest missed opportunity of the war.
"At that moment, most Hizb-i-Islami or Taliban commanders were interested in joining the government," the U.N. official said, referring to another Afghan militia that fought U.S. troops. "Lesson learned: If you get the chance to talk to the Taliban, talk to them," the official said.
Belatedly, U.S. officials came to realize it was impossible to vanquish the group. Today, Pentagon officials say the only way to end the war is with a political settlement in which the Taliban reconciles with the Afghan government.
Last year, the U.S. government opened direct, high-level peace talks with the Taliban for the first time.
Five of the Taliban's negotiators are former U.S. prisoners of war who each spent a dozen years in captivity in Guantanamo. The lead U.S. envoy is Zalmay Khalilzad, an Afghan American diplomat who served as U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan from 2003 to 2005 and later as ambassador to Iraq and the United Nations.
In a Lessons Learned interview in December 2016, Khalilzad acknowledged that by refusing to talk to the Taliban, the Bush administration may have blown a chance to end the war shortly after it started.
"Maybe we were not agile or wise enough to reach out to the Taliban early on, that we thought they were defeated and that they needed to be brought to justice, rather than that they should be accommodated or some reconciliation be done," he said.
A year after Khalilzad's Lessons Learned interview, Trump pulled him back into public service by tapping him as the U.S. envoy for negotiations with the Taliban.
Federal officials redacted extensive portions of Khalilzad’s interview before releasing a transcript to The Post in June, saying it contained classified information. In a court filing, the Justice Department said disclosure of the classified material “might negatively impact ongoing diplomatic negotiations.”
The Post has asked a federal judge to review whether Khalilzad's remarks were properly classified. A decision is pending.
In Lessons Learned interviews, other officials said the Bush administration compounded its early mistake with the Taliban by making another critical error - treating Pakistan as a friend.
An army battalion graduates in Kabul after completing training in 2004. (Washington Post photo by Dudley M. Brooks)
Pakistan’s military ruler, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, had given the Pentagon permission to use Pakistani airspace and let the CIA track al-Qaida leaders in Pakistani territory. As a result, the Bush White House was slow to recognize that Pakistan was simultaneously giving covert support to the Taliban, according to the interviews.
"Because of people's personal confidence in Musharraf and because of things he was continuing to do in helping police up a bunch of the al-Qaida in Pakistan. There was a failure to perceive the double game that he starts to play by late 2002, early 2003," Marin Strmecki, a senior adviser to Rumsfeld, told government interviewers.
"I think that the Afghans, and [President Hamid] Karzai himself, are bringing this up constantly even in the earlier parts of 2002," Strmecki added. "They are meeting unsympathetic ears because of the belief that Pakistan was helping us so much on al-Qaida. . . . There is never a full confronting of Pakistan in its role supporting the Taliban."
By late 2002, Afghanistan had become yesterday's war in the eyes of the Bush administration. It was already preparing for a much bigger invasion, that of Iraq.
On Oct. 21, after spending several hours at the White House in meetings about Iraq, even Rumsfeld seemed taken aback by how much Afghanistan had receded from Bush's mind, according to a previously unpublished memo that the defense secretary wrote later that day.
Just before 3 p.m., Rumsfeld got a few minutes alone with the commander in chief. Rumsfeld asked Bush whether he wanted to arrange a meeting with Army Gen. Tommy Franks, the head of the U.S. Central Command, and Army Lt. Gen. Dan McNeill, who had been serving as commander of U.S. forces in Afghanistan for the past six months.
Bush was perplexed.
"He said, 'Who is General McNeill?' " Rumsfeld wrote in the memo. "I said he is the general in charge of Afghanistan. He said, 'Well, I don't need to meet with him.' "
The memo was obtained as part of a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit by the National Security Archive, a nonprofit research institute based at George Washington University, which shared it with The Post.
For his part, McNeill told government interviewers that he was given little strategic guidance. He said the Pentagon mainly cared about keeping a lid on the number of U.S. troops.
"There was no campaign plan in [the] early days," he said. "Rumsfeld would get excited if there was any increase in the number of boots on the ground."
At the time, McNeill commanded about 8,000 troops - a tiny fraction of the number that would ultimately go to Afghanistan. A few contrarians in the Bush administration pushed to do more.
Richard Haass, a senior diplomat who served as the Bush administration's special coordinator for Afghanistan after the 9/11 attacks, told government interviewers that he floated a proposal to deploy 20,000 to 25,000 U.S. troops, alongside an equal number of allied forces. But he said his plan was shot down.
"I couldn't sell the idea. There was no enthusiasm. There was a profound sense of a lack of possibility in Afghanistan," Haass said in a Lessons Learned interview. "I was never talking about 100,000-plus people. I was talking about a very narrow mission. A mission not much different than what we have now. Training and arming in a limited role."
He added: "It was seen as too much and that is ironic given where we ended up. In retrospect, it looks like a bargain."
By keeping troops to a minimum in Afghanistan, the Bush administration was looking to claim swift victories on two fronts at the same time.
On May 1, 2003, while standing under a "Mission Accomplished" banner on an aircraft carrier, Bush declared an end to "major combat operations" in Iraq.
On the very same day, Rumsfeld visited Kabul and announced an end to "major combat activity" in Afghanistan.
Both declarations backfired spectacularly. Iraq descended into civil war. Meanwhile, as the U.S. government fixated on Iraq, the Taliban steadily regrouped.
Nicholas Burns, a career U.S. diplomat who served as ambassador to NATO under Bush, said the administration lost sight of the big picture in Afghanistan at a pivotal time.
"After 2003 and 2004 . . . I can't remember us ever saying, should we still be there? Are we being useful? Are we succeeding?" he told government interviewers.
"I think we would have done better if we had made some more specific, strategic assumptions," Burns said. "Yes, we're here open-ended. We think that might be 10 to 15 to 20 years. Or no, we'd like to bring American engagement, you know, to an end. . . . I don't remember us asking that very tough question."
Of the hundreds of people interviewed by SIGAR, Burns was one of the few who accepted personal responsibility for his role in the war's failures.
"At the time, but especially in ensuing years, I've often wondered did we make a mistake - and I'm part of this obviously, so I have to own part of it - in not deciding strategically if there was going to be an endpoint," he said. "I fault myself, and you know, we probably should have asked those questions more consistently by 2005 and 2006."
By the time British Gen. David Richards took charge of NATO forces in Afghanistan in 2006, the Taliban was giving U.S. and allied troops all they could handle in the eastern and southern parts of the country.
Richards said the alliance failed to adapt.
"We were trying to get a single coherent long-term approach - a proper strategy - but instead we got a lot of tactics," he told government interviewers. "There was no coherent long-term strategy."
In his Lessons Learned interview, Richards recalled having a tense encounter with Rumsfeld in 2006. The Pentagon chief asked the NATO commander why things were deteriorating in the south. Richards replied that it was because he did not have enough resources: "And Rummy said 'General what do you mean?' I said, 'We don't have enough troops and resources and we've raised expectations.' He said 'General, I don't agree. Move on.' "
The next year, NATO forces in Afghanistan got a new commander: McNeill, the general whose name Bush had once forgotten. McNeill was ordered back to Afghanistan to take command a second time as the Taliban launched a wave of suicide attacks and began planting bombs all over the country.
By March 2007, the number of U.S. and NATO troops in Afghanistan had climbed to 50,000. Despite the increase, McNeill said nobody in charge was able to articulate a clear mission and strategy.
"I tried to get someone to define for me what winning meant, even before I went over, and nobody could. Nobody would give me a good definition of what it meant," he told government interviewers. "Some people were thinking in terms of Jeffersonian democracy, but that's just not going to happen in Afghanistan."
"There was no NATO campaign plan - a lot of verbiage and talk, but no plan," McNeill added. "So for better or for worse, a lot of what we did, we did with some forethought, but most of it was reacting to conditions on the ground. . . . We were opportunists."
Even before the new commander in chief moved into the White House, U.S. military leaders recognized they needed a fresh war plan. Years of hunting suspected terrorists was getting them nowhere. The Taliban kept gaining ground.
"At the time, I was looking at Afghanistan and I was thinking that there has to be more to solving this problem than killing people, because that's what we were doing and every time I went back security was worse," Army Maj. Gen. Edward Reeder, a Special Operations commander who deployed to the war zone several times before retiring in 2015, told government interviewers.
U.S. military leaders wanted to double down on a counterinsurgency strategy. The objective was to win the "hearts and minds" of the Afghan people by protecting them from the Taliban, limiting civilian casualties and building popular support for the new Afghan government.
The new strategy would require far more troops and far more aid for the Afghan government. A similar approach - dubbed "the surge" - had seemed to work in Iraq.
In August 2009, Army Gen. Stanley McChrystal, then-commander of U.S. and NATO forces, wrote a classified 66-page assessment of the war that called for a "properly resourced" counterinsurgency campaign and laid out his proposed strategy in meticulous detail.
In the Lessons Learned interviews, however, U.S. and allied officials said McChrystal and the Obama administration glossed over two basic questions: Whom were they fighting? And why?
Obama had repeatedly declared the goal of the war was to "disrupt, dismantle and eventually defeat al-Qaida." But the first draft of McChrystal's strategic review did not even mention al-Qaida, because the group had all but disappeared from Afghanistan, according to an unnamed NATO official involved in the review.
"In 2009, the perception was that al-Qaida was no longer a problem," the NATO official told government interviewers. "But the entire reason for being in Afghanistan was al-Qaida. So then the second draft included them."
Another jarring disconnect was that the United States and its allies could not agree on whether they were actually fighting a war in Afghanistan or doing something else, the NATO official said.
"There are big implications with calling this a war," the NATO official added. "Legally under international law that has serious implications. So we checked with the legal team and they agree it's not a war."
To paper over the problem, McChrystal added a line in his report that said the conflict was "not a war in a conventional sense."
The official description of the mission was even more convoluted.
The long definition stated that the objective for U.S. and NATO forces was to "reduce the capability and will of the insurgency, support the growth in capacity and capability of the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF), and facilitate improvements in governance and socio-economic development, in order to provide a secure environment for sustainable stability that is observable to the population."
After months of debate at the White House, Obama approved the counterinsurgency strategy.
In his December 2009 speech at the U.S. Military Academy, he announced he would deploy 30,000 more U.S. troops to Afghanistan, on top of the 70,000 that he and Bush had previously authorized. NATO and other U.S. allies would increase their forces to 50,000.
But Obama added a last-minute wrinkle that caught many of his senior advisers by surprise. He imposed a timeline on the mission and said the extra troops would start to come home in 18 months.
"The timeline was just sprung on us," Army Gen. David Petraeus, head of the U.S. Central Command at the time, said in a Lessons Learned interview. "Two days before the president made the speech, on a Sunday, we all got called and were told to be in the Oval Office that night for the president to lay out what he would announce two evenings later. And he laid it out, there it is."
"None of us had heard that before," Petraeus added. "And we were then asked, are you all okay with that? He went around the room and everyone said yes. And it was take it or leave it."
Barnett Rubin, the Afghan expert, was serving as an adviser to the State Department at the time. He told government interviewers he and other U.S. officials were "stupefied" when they heard Obama reveal the timeline during the West Point speech. All the Taliban had to do was lay low until U.S. and NATO troops left.
He said it was understandable that Obama wanted to put the Afghan government on notice that the Americans wouldn't fight forever.
"But there was a mismatch between deadline and strategy," Rubin added. "With that deadline, you can't use that strategy."
Like the Bush administration, Obama lacked an effective diplomatic strategy for dealing with the Taliban.
In public, the Obama administration called for "reconciliation" between the Afghan government and insurgent leaders. But the Lessons Learned interviews show his advisers disagreed strenuously over what that meant.
Rubin, who favored talking to the Taliban, told interviewers that some hard-liners defined reconciliation as, "We'll be nice to people who surrender."
In particular, he said, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was "very reluctant to move on this," because of her presidential aspirations.
"Women are [a] very important constituency for her and she couldn't sell making a bargain with the Taliban," Rubin said. "If you want to be the first woman president you cannot leave any hint or doubt that you're not the toughest person on national security."
Other diplomats argued that trying to deal with the Taliban was a waste of time.
"I never believed that the negotiations with the Taliban, conducted by whomever, were going to lead anywhere significant," Ryan Crocker, who served as Obama's ambassador to Afghanistan from 2011 to 2012, told government interviewers. "I felt at the most, it might be possibleto chip away individual Taliban figures and bring them over to the government side, but that would be an incremental issue. . . . I never thought there was an upside."
In the Lessons Learned interviews, Obama officials acknowledged that they failed to resolve another strategic challenge that had dogged Bush - what to do about Pakistan.
Washington kept giving Pakistan billions of dollars a year to help fight terrorism. Yet Pakistani military and intelligence leaders never stopped supporting the Afghan Taliban and giving sanctuary to its leaders.
"The Obama administration just thought if you just hang in there Pakistan will see the light," a former White House official told government interviewers in 2015.
In a separate interview in 2015, another unnamed official complained that the Obama administration would not let U.S. troops attack Taliban camps on the Pakistani side of the border.
"And still today we wonder what the problem is," the official said. "I talked to General Petraeus and I was saying that if I were a general and a bullet came and hit my men I would follow it. And Petraeus said yeah well go talk to Washington."
Crocker, who also served as U.S. ambassador to Pakistan from 2004 to 2007, told government interviewers that Pakistani leaders did not bother to hide their duplicity.
He recounted a conversation he had with Gen. Ashfaq Kayani, who was then Pakistan’s intelligence chief, in which he “was getting on him again” about the Taliban.
Gen. David Petraeus, then-commander of coalition forces in Iraq, at a House Armed Services Committee hearing 2008. (Washington Post photo by Melina Mara)
"And he says, ‘You know, I know you think we’re hedging our bets. You’re right, we are, because one day you’ll be gone again, it’ll be like Afghanistan the first time, you’ll be done with us, but we’re still going to be here because we can’t actually move the country. And the last thing we want with all of our other problems is to have turned the Taliban into a mortal enemy, so, yes, we’re hedging our bets.’ "
In his December 2016 Lessons Learned interview, Crocker said the only way to force Pakistan to change would be for Trump to keep U.S. troops in Afghanistan indefinitely and give them the green light to hunt the Taliban on Pakistani territory.
"It would allow him to say, 'You worry about our reliability, you worry about our withdrawal from Afghanistan, I'm here to tell you that I'm going to keep troops there as long as I feel we need them, there is no calendar.'
" 'That's the good news. The bad news for you is we're going to kill Taliban leaders wherever we find them: Baluchistan, Punjab, downtown Islamabad. We're going to go find them, so maybe you want to do a strategic recalculation.' "
At first, hopes were high that Obama's strategy would turn the tide. But military and civilian officials interviewed for the SIGAR project said it soon became clear that lessons learned from one war zone did not necessarily apply to the other.
An unidentified Special Forces officer who deployed to Afghanistan in 2013 said all the conventional forces there thought it would be just like Iraq. "They were constantly referring to it," he said, but "just because [the villagers] are wearing robes and speaking derka derka doesn't mean it's the same country."
The officer told government interviewers the new counterinsurgency strategy was rushed, with the troops receiving scant direction from above: "We were given no documents that instructed us how to do our job. We were given the commander's vague strategic priorities but [that] generally amounted to 'go do good things.' Both at the strategic and operational level, doing it right took a back seat to doing it fast."
Others said the strategy was based on buzzwords and lacked substance. U.S. military leaders adopted an approach they labeled "clear, hold and build," in which troops would clear insurgents from a district and remain until local government officials and Afghan security forces could stabilize the area with an influx of aid.
Because they were operating on a tight timetable, U.S. commanders first tried to clear areas where the Taliban was deeply entrenched, such as Helmand and Kandahar provinces in southern Afghanistan. The approach backfired when U.S. officials lavished aid on districts that remained supportive of the Taliban yet neglected peaceful areas that sided with the government in Kabul.
In a Lessons Learned interview, a senior official with the U.S. Agency for International Development said friendly governors from stable provinces would come to Kabul and ask: "What do I have to do to get love from the Americans, blow some shit up?"
"We needed to go first where the fence-sitters and low-hanging fruit was [and] reward good behavior," the USAID official said, adding that the Americans and their allies needed to "reinforce people who are cooperating with the government, so we can demonstrate success, then create a demand for it in insecure areas. . . . But this takes time, as it should, and we didn't have time or patience."
In 2014, as evidence piled up that Obama's plan was faltering, a senior State Department official told government interviewers that the mission had been unfocused from the start.
"I am sick of Obama saying, 'We're sick of war,' " the senior diplomat said. "Only 5% of Americans are involved in the war; it doesn't affect most Americans."
"If I were to write a book, its [cover] would be: 'America goes to war without knowing why it does,' " she added. "We went in reflexively after 9/11 without knowing what we were trying to achieve. I would like to write a book about having a plan and an endgame before you go in."
Army Lt. Joshua Pitcher, in his living quarters at Camp Spann in northern Afghanistan, after a mission in 2014. He returned to his unit two years after an injury in Kandahar province that cost him his leg. (Photo for The Washington Post by Lorenzo Tugnoli)
Dozens of U.S. and Afghan officials told interviewers that the problems reflected a much deeper flaw. Despite years and years of war, the United States still did not understand what was motivating its enemies to fight.
The Taliban's presence "was a symptom, but we rarely tried to understand what the disease was," an unnamed USAID official said in a Lessons Learned interview in 2016.
In a separate interview that year, an Army civil-affairs officer said: "In order to clear, you need to know your enemy. You don't know your enemy - [you're just] tearing things down and pissing people off."
Shahmahmood Miakhel, a senior Afghan official who now serves as governor of Nangahar province, told interviewers there was a simple way to tell whether the U.S. strategy was working.
"I told Petraeus that in the counterinsurgency in which you don't know your friend, you don't know your enemy and environment, you are going to fail," Miakhel said. "I told him to check your list of people to be killed and captured, and see has this become longer or shorter. If it has increased, that means that your strategy [has] failed."
In March 2011, when he was commander of U.S. and NATO forces, Petraeus estimated there were "somewhere around 25,000 Taliban," according to testimony he gave to Congress.
Today, the U.S. military estimates the number has more than doubled - to about 60,000.
©2024Anchorage Daily News. All rights reserved.

Title: South Asia’s Most Notorious Militant Groups – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
Ideology, organization, and public support: An analysis of the Lashkar-e-Taiba and Haqqani Network.
Insurgents suspected of being from the Haqqani network are presented to the media at the intelligence agents of Security (NDS) headquarters in Kabul, Afghanistan, May, 30, 2013.
The Lashkar-e-Taiba and the Haqqani Network are among the most infamous and effective militant organizations that have etched their name in Asian geopolitics. Below is an overview of both groups analyzing their ideology, organizational structure, leadership, and public support.
The Lashkar-e-Taiba
The Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) was established in 1987 in Pakistan as the armed wing of Markaz Dawat-ul Irshad (the Center for Proselytization and Preaching). They are a religiously motivated armed group focused on liberating Indian-administered Kashmir. Under General Zia ul-Haq’s auspices, LeT foundmassive support and grew lavishlythrough the years. This patronage continued until former President Pervez Musharraf banned the group due to international pressure.
The group’s original aim was to rid Afghanistan of the Soviet presence and hence they were one of the Mujahideen groups active in the struggle. After the Soviet withdrawal, they turned their attention toIndian-administered Kashmir, with a goal to wage holy warand unite the entirety of Kashmir with Pakistan. They are well-organized and engage in various social activities on the ground level, which wins them support from certain segments of the population. They are known for their extensivewelfare network, which provides social welfareand education to the working class and poor.
In 2002, Musharraf’s government banned the group due to increasing external pressure. This was not surprising as preceding this ban, the LeTwas declared a foreign terrorist groupby the United States in December 2001. The LeT is believed to have perpetrated the 2008 Mumbai attacks in India, which expanded their notoriety massively around the world.
According to sources, following the ban, the LeT resurfaced using a front called Jamat-ud-Dawa (JuD), the LeT’s charity wing. In 2017, according to the United States, Hafiz Saeed (the group’s leader) and his organization also created a political party, the Milli Muslim League (MML). America’s State Department pronounced the MML as a LeT alias and placed its name on theForeign Terrorist Organizations (FTO)list. Pakistan’s Interior Ministry advised the Election Commission of Pakistan to disallow the registration of the MML due to its ties withmilitant outfits and also because the group’s patron, Hafiz Saeed, is on the UN’s watch list. The LeT/JuD and its political face, the MML, all have the same ideological inclinations and motivations. The LeT’s role relates to armed struggle while the MML’s ambition is to gain political legitimacy – both bound by the same ideology but differing in approach, as seen in other armed groups.
The LeT is a Sunni group that follows theIslamic interpretation of Ahl-E-Hadith, which is similar to Wahhabismand Salafism. Jihad andtableegh(preaching) are central precepts of the group, with the main objective being the liberation and merger of Kashmir with Pakistan. This ideological alignment with the interests of thePakistani state differentiatesLeT from Deobandi groups. The LeT’s political wing, the MML, surfaced seamlessly, without any dissent in its rank-and-file, in 2017.
The structure of the LeT is extremely centralized and organized – this is true for all its wings: militant, political, and charity. Unlike various other militant groups in South Asia, who have casual and disorganized command and control structures, theLeT’s organizational structure is precise and hierarchic in nature, which reflectsupon its commitment. The group ismodeled after a military system: a “supreme commander” and “deputy supreme leader” head the military wing, both of whom report directly to Hafiz Saeed. Under them are “divisional commanders” and their deputies and further beneath them are “district commanders,” who control districts. The group also divides and subdivides itself based on different tasks. For example, the welfare department is further diversified into amedical camp, dispensary, ambulance services, and hospital. It is alleged that they have recruitment centers across Azad Kashmir as well as some areas of Pakistan. The centralization of the group also offers rapid relief to victims of natural disasters. For example, after the 2005 earthquake, about 2,000 JuD volunteers spread across northernPakistan and set up medical camps, highlighting the organization’s effective and quick disaster response.
Leadership is concentrated in a few hands, with Hafiz Saeed being the spiritual mentor of both the LeT and JuD. The core leadership consists of Saeed and his deputies, who supervise different aspects ofthe group’s charitable and functionaloperations. Prominent leaders include Zaki Ur Rehman, who is the supremecommander for the Kashmir theater, and Rehman Makki who is thesecond in command of the group. Saeed’s control is unchallenged and he has enforced tight control ever since he co-founded the group. He and his colleagues are well respected and their authority is absolute – when a decision is made from the top, it is obeyed without resistance.
The group enjoys a decent amount of public support in a few areas of the country. The people who favor them seem to do so because of their charity and social work in their areas. In addition to having a well-established network of educational facilities across the country,JuD offers blood banks, mobile clinics, and ambulance services. In areas where the government has failed to provide health facilities, the JuD hasorganized free medical camps. As already mentioned, the group’s well-organized structure allows for quick relief when hard-to-reach areas are affected by natural disasters. During the 2005 earthquake in Azad Kashmir, JuD’s camp was the first andmost visible in the region’s capital of Muzaffarabad. Conversely, they also provide cheap and even free educational services to the poor, which further strengthens their reputation among the people. The groupoperates hundreds of schoolsand madrassas in the country. Therefore, the JuD’s social welfare activities help them expand their influence on the poor – thisconsequently increases their influence on society, which provides them a foundation to promote their ideology and align certain population segments to their objectives.
The Haqqani Network
The Haqqani Network (HN), although officially incorporated under the larger Taliban umbrella and the Quetta Shura, maintainsdistinct lines of operations and command and control. The network is primarily based in Afghanistan and also allegedly in the tribal belt of Pakistan, from where they target Afghan and international forces. The group first emerged in the late 1970s and was led by Jalaluddin Haqqani, the famed Mujahideen leader. It rose in prominence during theAfghan-Soviet War as a Mujahideen force. It was supported by Pakistan in order to install a pro-Pakistan government in Afghanistan in the 1970s and 80s but it was banned by the country in 2015. Currently, the group is led by Sirajuddin Haqqani, son of Jalaluddin Haqqani, who is extremely influential in the Taliban circles.
On May 31, 2017, in the group’s largest attack, HN detonated a car bomb killing 150 and wounding nearly 500 in Afghanistan. The group is one of the most important and dangerous elements under the Taliban umbrella.
The Taliban have often been characterized as a divided and fragmented movement encompassing disparate groups with diverse aims and lackingunified leadership or a clear organizational structure. This has been exacerbated since Mullah Omar’s death. Today, the Shuras that showed some semblance of unity in the past have become disjointed – meaning some Shuras are cordial with some, while holding grudges against others. Even the Shuras’ policies, actions, and organizational structures differ from each other (for example some are pro-negotiations while others are not). The original leadership of the Taliban gathered in the Quetta Shura, but in more contemporary times, thisShura has struggled to maintain its grip over its “regional commands”of Peshawar, Mashhad, and Miran Shah. Within this diversified network of segregated groups is the Haqqani Network, comprised of the Miran Shah Shura.
The group is well organized and has been lethal in its attacks on Afghani and international forces in Afghanistan. America has alleged that the group operates from the tribal belt of Pakistan, specifically Miran Shah in North Waziristan Agency (although Pakistan refutes this). The group maintained private autonomy even when Mullah Omar was alive, but since his death, their influence has grown further. They exert complete influence on the Miran Shah Shura; have significant control on the Peshawar Shura; and even control key commissions in the Quetta Shura. This makes them the chief group among the modern-day Taliban. The Haqqanis’ influence can be gathered from the fact that the Taliban have demanded the release ofAnas Haqqani, younger brother of Sirjauddin, in the recent negotiations with the Americans – which the Americans and Afghanis did in November 2019
The Haqqani ideology, similar to that of other groups within the Taliban, follows the Deobandi interpretation of Islam and focuses on jihad to expel Western forces in Afghanistan and re-impose Taliban rule. For the Haqqanis, the methodology to realize their ideology has generally been via armed struggle. The current emir of the Taliban, albeit not nearly as widely accepted as Mullah Omar, Hibatullah Akhundzada, is pro-negotiations but the Haqqanis are generally seen as favoring a military-centric approach.
Although the organizational structure of the Taliban is decentralized, the Haqqani Network enjoys a centralized system. Out of all the Shuras of the Taliban, only the Miran Shah Shura (which is exclusively composed of the Haqqanis) is ahomogenous organization under absolutely unifiedleadership of the Haqqani network. The core structure of the Haqqani network is mainly familial and hierarchical. The hierarchy is asfollows: Tier 1 are the senior Haqqani commanders(they provide finances and strategic guidance); Tier 2 are senior local commanders who are present in Afghanistan (in charge of districts); Tier 3 are locally based group leaders (handle recruiting, logistics, etc.); Tier 4 is comprised of the core fighters (ideological fighters); and Tier 5 are the cash fighters (mercenaries).
The founder of the group was Jalaluddin Haqqani, a veteran anti-Soviet mujahideen commander who was a valuable CIA asset and later a minister in the Taliban government of Afghanistan. Since the group is bound by familial ties, it is not surprising the group is currently led by his son, Sirajuddin, who is not only the most influential person in the Haqqani network but is the second in command of the entire Taliban behind only the emir. Sirajuddin is the current deputy of the Taliban emir and was made so to avoid dissent as many in the group sought for him to be positioned as the new emir of the Taliban. Favoring a centralized and militarist approach, Sirajuddin opposes the use offinances on nonmilitary functions such as clinics, courts, and so on. Jihad is the principal tenet of victory, according to his stance. Sirajuddin’s sphere of influence goes well beyond the Haqqani Network itself. The leader’s influence can be estimated by the fact that he not only leads the HN (Miran Shah Shura),but is also deputy in the Quetta Shura(comprised of the leadership of the Talban) in which he controls all key commissions, such as military and finance. Other top leaders include Haji Mali Khan, an uncle of Sirajuddin, who was released in a prisoner swap in November 2019 along with Anas Haqqani.
The public support for the Taliban as a whole and the Haqqani Network is low in Afghanistan. According to“A Survey of the Afghan People: Afghanistan in 2016”in which 12,658 people participated from all 34 provinces, 93 percent reported that encountering the Taliban was their worst nightmare. The Haqqanis’ stronghold in Afghanistan is the Loya-Paktia region (consisting of the provinces of Pakita, Paktika, Khost, and some parts of Ghazni). It could be argued that they have some support within this region as historicallySirjauddin’s father provided security and resources to the people here– Sirajuddin, however, has not. Sirajuddin’s control ofLoya-Paktia is via military might and through the manipulationof the locals’ grievances over lack of governance and civilian casualties. The same Afghan survey (cited above), however, shows that in Paktika, where in previous years people reported lower levels of fear of Taliban encounters, the proportion of people expressing “no fear” of the Taliban increased to 18.9 percent. This could be due to people not fearing the Taliban since they might have some loyalties to the Haqqani Network. Sirajuddin might not enjoy the respect of the people the way that his father did, but this does not mean that support is nonexistent in these areas — especially since theHaqqanis are known to pay substantial quantities of moneyin exchange for assistance from the Loya-Paktia locals. Nonetheless, their public support can still not be considered substantial.
Unlike the LeT, the Haqqanis are not known for providing social welfare facilities to the public around Afghanistan. As mentioned, the Haqqanis are military-hardened warriors and generally, the current leadership seeks to primarily increase the funds for their military campaigns. The HN remain a significant military threat but their and the Taliban’s support in Afghanistan remains low — according to polls, at least.
Sarmad Ishfaq works as a research fellow for the Lahore Centre for Peace Research. He completed his Master’s in International Studies from the University of Wollongong in Dubai. He has several publications in peer-reviewed journals and magazines in the areas of counterterrorism/terrorism and the geopolitics of South Asia and the Gulf Cooperation Council.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: US, Taliban hold first official talks about ceasefire - Taipei Times
US peace envoy Zalmay Khalilzad on Saturday held the first official talks with Afghanistan’s Taliban since US President Donald Trump declared a near-certain peace deal with the insurgents dead in September.
The talks will initially focus on getting a Taliban promise to reduce violence, with a permanent cease-fire being the eventual goal, a US statement said. Khalilzad is also trying to lay the groundwork for negotiations between Afghans on both sides of the protracted conflict.
Sitting with the Taliban at the negotiating table was Anas Haqqani, one of three senior Taliban freed last month in exchange for kidnapped American University of Afghanistan professors — American Kevin King and Australian Timothy Weeks — Taliban’s political office spokesman Suhail Shaheen tweeted.
Haqqani is the younger brother of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the Taliban’s deputy and the head of the much feared Haqqani network, a US declared terrorist organization.
Tweeting that talks will resume on Sunday, Shaheen also said “we discussed matters related to the signing of the agreement,” without elaborating.
The meetings being held in the Middle Eastern State of Qatar, where the Taliban maintain a political office, follow several days of talks in Afghanistan’s capital, Kabul, where Khalilzad met with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani.
The Taliban have so far refused direct talks with Ghani, calling him a US puppet.
Ghani leads the Afghan government with Chief Executive Abdullah Abdullah in a power-sharing agreement brokered by the US after the presidential elections in 2014 were so deeply mired in corruption that a clear winner could not be determined.
The Afghan government is now embroiled in a fresh elections standoff from the presidential polls on Sept. 28.
Repeat leading contender Abdullah has challenged the recounting of several hundred thousand ballots, accusing his opponent Ghani of trying to manipulate the tally.
Meanwhile, Khalilzad’s return to his peace mission followed Trump’s surprise Thanksgiving Day visit to Afghanistan in which he said talks with the Taliban were back on.
While Khalilzad is talking to the Taliban about reducing violence, the US military in its daily report said overnight on Saturday that US airstrikes killed 37 Taliban and that operations by the Afghan National Security Forces killed another 22 of the militants.
North Korean leader Kim Jong-un sent Chinese President Xi Jinping (習近平) greetings with what appeared to be restrained rhetoric that comes as Pyongyang moves closer to Russia and depends less on its long-time Asian ally.
Kim wished “the Chinese people greater success in building a modern socialist country,” in a reply message to Xi for his congratulations on North Korea’s birthday, the state-run Korean Central News Agency reported yesterday.
The 190-word dispatch had little of the florid language that had been a staple of their correspondence, which has declined significantly this year, an analysis by Seoul-based specialist service NK Pro showed.
It said
On an island of windswept tundra in the Bering Sea, hundreds of miles from mainland Alaska, a resident sitting outside their home saw — well, did they see it? They were pretty sure they saw it — a rat.
The purported sighting would not have gotten attention in many places around the world, but it caused a stir on Saint Paul Island, which is part of the Pribilof Islands, a birding haven sometimes called the “Galapagos of the north” for its diversity of life.
That is because rats that stow away on vessels can quickly populate and overrun remote islands, devastating bird
CARTEL ARRESTS:The president said that a US government operation to arrest two cartel members made it jointly responsible for the unrest in the state’s capital                                        Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador on Thursday blamed the US in part for a surge in cartel violence in the northern state of Sinaloa that has left at least 30 people dead in the past week.
Two warring factions of the Sinaloa cartel have clashed in the state capital of Culiacan in what appears to be a fight for power after two of its leaders were arrested in the US in late July.
Teams of gunmen have shot at each other and the security forces.
Meanwhile, dead bodies continued to be found across the city. On one busy street corner, cars drove
Residents of a tiny Appalachian town on Friday struggled to cope with a shooting involving two of its most prominent citizens: a judge who was gunned down in his courthouse chambers and a local sheriff charged with his murder.
“It’s just so sad. I just hate it,” Letcher County Circuit Court Clerk Mike Watts said. “Both of them are friends of mine. I’ve worked with both of them for years.”
It was not clear what led to the shooting. The preliminary investigation indicates that Letcher County Sheriff Shawn “Mickey” Stines shot District Judge Kevin Mullins multiple times following an argument inside the

Title: US peace envoy to Afghanistan opens first round of resurrected talks with Taliban
KABUL, Afghanistan — U.S. peace envoy Zalmay Khalilzad on Saturday held the first official talks with Afghanistan’s Taliban since President Donald Trump declared a near-certain peace deal with the insurgents dead in September.
The talks will initially focus on getting a Taliban promise to reduce violence, with a permanent cease-fire being the eventual goal, said a U.S. statement. Khalilzad is also trying to lay the groundwork for negotiations between Afghans on both sides of the protracted conflict.
Sitting with the Taliban at the negotiating table was Anas Haqqani, one of three senior Taliban freed last month in exchange for kidnapped American University of Afghanistan professors — American Kevin King and Australian Timothy Weeks, Taliban’s political office spokesman Suhail Shaheen tweeted.
Haqqani is the younger brother of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the Taliban’s deputy and the head of the much feared Haqqani network, a U.S. declared terrorist organization.
Tweeting that talks will resume on Sunday, Shaheen also said “we discussed matters related to the signing of the agreement,”without elaborating.
The meetings being held in the Middle Eastern State of Qatar, where the Taliban maintain a political office, follow several days of talks in Afghanistan’s capital, Kabul, where Khalilzad met with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani.
The Taliban have so far refused direct talks with Ghani, calling him a U.S. puppet.
Ghani leads the Afghan government with Chief Executive Abdullah Abdullah in a power-sharing agreement brokered by the United States after the presidential elections in 2014 were so deeply mired in corruption that a clear winner could not be determined.
To head off a conflict, Washington stepped in and forced the two leading candidates — Ghani and Abdullah — to share power in a so-called Unity Government that has been largely paralyzed because of the relentless bickering between the two leaders.
The Afghan government is now embroiled in a fresh elections standoff. Presidential polls on Sept. 28 again ended in accusations of misconduct, with no results yet announced.
Repeat leading contender Abdullah has challenged the recounting of several hundred thousand ballots, accusing his opponent Ghani of trying to manipulate the tally.
Meanwhile, Khalilzad’s return to his peace mission followedTrump’s surprise Thanksgiving Day visitto Afghanistan in which he said talks with the Taliban were back on.
While Khalilzad is talking to the Taliban about reducing violence, the U.S. military in its daily report said overnight on Saturday U.S. airstrikes killed 37 Taliban and operations by the Afghan National Security Forces killed another 22 of the militants.
The insurgents have continued to carry put near daily strikes against military outposts throughout the country. They now hold sway over nearly half of Afghanistan.
Trump has expressed frustration with America’s longest war repeatedly saying he wants tobring the estimated 12,000 U.S. troops homeand calling on Afghanistan’s own police and military to step up. The Afghan government has also been criticized for its relentless corruption.
Military Times  © 2024

Title: US peace envoy to Afghanistan opens first round of resurrected talks with Taliban
KABUL, Afghanistan — U.S. peace envoy Zalmay Khalilzad on Saturday held the first official talks with Afghanistan’s Taliban since President Donald Trump declared a near-certain peace deal with the insurgents dead in September.
The talks will initially focus on getting a Taliban promise to reduce violence, with a permanent cease-fire being the eventual goal, said a U.S. statement. Khalilzad is also trying to lay the groundwork for negotiations between Afghans on both sides of the protracted conflict.
Sitting with the Taliban at the negotiating table was Anas Haqqani, one of three senior Taliban freed last month in exchange for kidnapped American University of Afghanistan professors — American Kevin King and Australian Timothy Weeks, Taliban’s political office spokesman Suhail Shaheen tweeted.
Haqqani is the younger brother of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the Taliban’s deputy and the head of the much feared Haqqani network, a U.S. declared terrorist organization.
Tweeting that talks will resume on Sunday, Shaheen also said “we discussed matters related to the signing of the agreement,”without elaborating.
The meetings being held in the Middle Eastern State of Qatar, where the Taliban maintain a political office, follow several days of talks in Afghanistan’s capital, Kabul, where Khalilzad met with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani.
The Taliban have so far refused direct talks with Ghani, calling him a U.S. puppet.
Ghani leads the Afghan government with Chief Executive Abdullah Abdullah in a power-sharing agreement brokered by the United States after the presidential elections in 2014 were so deeply mired in corruption that a clear winner could not be determined.
To head off a conflict, Washington stepped in and forced the two leading candidates — Ghani and Abdullah — to share power in a so-called Unity Government that has been largely paralyzed because of the relentless bickering between the two leaders.
The Afghan government is now embroiled in a fresh elections standoff. Presidential polls on Sept. 28 again ended in accusations of misconduct, with no results yet announced.
Repeat leading contender Abdullah has challenged the recounting of several hundred thousand ballots, accusing his opponent Ghani of trying to manipulate the tally.
Meanwhile, Khalilzad’s return to his peace mission followedTrump’s surprise Thanksgiving Day visitto Afghanistan in which he said talks with the Taliban were back on.
While Khalilzad is talking to the Taliban about reducing violence, the U.S. military in its daily report said overnight on Saturday U.S. airstrikes killed 37 Taliban and operations by the Afghan National Security Forces killed another 22 of the militants.
The insurgents have continued to carry put near daily strikes against military outposts throughout the country. They now hold sway over nearly half of Afghanistan.
Trump has expressed frustration with America’s longest war repeatedly saying he wants tobring the estimated 12,000 U.S. troops homeand calling on Afghanistan’s own police and military to step up. The Afghan government has also been criticized for its relentless corruption.
Marine Corps Times  © 2024

Title: Key Pakistan Taliban commander Qari Saifullah Mehsud killed in Afghanistan, says report; Haqqani Network allegedly responsible – Firstpost
Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) commander Qari Saifullah Mehsud has been shot dead by gunmen in Afghanistan, the group confirmed on Sunday
Islamabad:Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) commander Qari Saifullah Mehsud has been shot dead by gunmen in Afghanistan, the group confirmed on Sunday. He was killed outside the Guloon camp in Khost province, the group spokesperson said in an audio message,Anadolu News Agencyreported.
The spokesman claimed that the attack was carried out by the Haqqani network, as they had killed three terrorists belonging to the TTP’s Hakimullah Mehsud group in the area a few days ago. The TTP was founded in 2007 by Baitullah Mehsud and is currently divided into four factions — Swat group, Mehsud group, Bajaur Agency group, and Darra Adamkhel group.
Qari Saifullah Mehsud was among the terrorists wanted by Pakistani authorities for his involvement in various attacks in the country.
In an audio message, Mehsud had claimed that his group conducted 75 terror attacks this year, mostly targetting local elders in North and South Waziristan districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. The claim was not verified and confirmed by officials.
Analysts said that Mehsud’s death is a big jolt for TTP as he was attempting to unite all the four factions.
“TTP has already split into several groups and Mehsud was trying to unit them. Secondly, he was the most active terrorist and wanted by Pakistan for several terror attacks,” Saboor Khattak, a Peshawar-based senior journalist, toldAnadolu News Agency.
Mehsud had claimed responsibility for the horrific 2015 bus attack in Karachi which killed 45 people, Khattak said. In 2016, the TTP commander was arrested by US forces in Afghanistan and was jailed for 14 months. However, he was released subsequently, the journalist added.
Find us on YouTube
is on YouTube
Copyright @ 2024. Firstpost - All Rights Reserved

Title: Resumption of peace talks: Taliban say giving final touches to peace accord
PESHAWAR: The Afghan Taliban said they had resumed the peace process from the point where it was called off by US President Donald Trump in September.They said presently they were working on the selection of the date and place where the peace accord should be announced. The US and Afghan Taliban resumed peace talks on Saturday in Doha."Much of the peace process has already been discussed and agreed upon by the two sides and the US may announce the peace accord either over Christmas or the New Year," said a senior Taliban leader inQatar privy to the peace negotiations.Pleading anonymity, he said that Zalmay Khalilzad was heading the US negotiation team while Taliban side was led by Mullah Abdul Ghani Biradar. The Taliban said they felt that the US was "serious" this time in the peace process. They said that besides Khalilzad, US military commander in Afghanistan Gen Scott Miller also taken part in the peace talks in Doha. "We didn't expect that Gen Miller would come with Khalilzad from Kabul to participate in the peace talks. We have realised that the US leadership now seems serious in the peace process," said the Taliban leader.According to Taliban leaders, Anas Haqqani, a former prisoner in Kabul, also participated in the peace talks with the US. He and two other Taliban prisoners were recently freed in exchange for the two foreign nationals in Kabul. Anas Haqqani is the younger brother of Sirajuddin Haqqani, leader of the Haqqani Network and deputy chief of the Afghan Taliban.Upon his release from the Bagram airbase, Taliban chief negotiator Mullah Abdul Ghani Biradar nominated Anas Haqqani as member of the Political Commission and also the negotiation team. According to Taliban leaders, they had offered conditional ceasefire to the US forces in Afghanistan. They added that they had agreed to announce a ceasefire in case the US stopped all military operations against the Taliban."We had given them two options. Either we announce complete ceasefire in case they stop their operations against us (Taliban) or we cease targeting them and their installations in areas from where they withdraw their troops," explained the Taliban leader.According to the Taliban, in the two days of talks Khalilzad and Gen Miller shared with them the exact location of their bases and installations.
They said presently they were working on the selection of the date and place where the peace accord should be announced. The US and Afghan Taliban resumed peace talks on Saturday in Doha."Much of the peace process has already been discussed and agreed upon by the two sides and the US may announce the peace accord either over Christmas or the New Year," said a senior Taliban leader inQatar privy to the peace negotiations.Pleading anonymity, he said that Zalmay Khalilzad was heading the US negotiation team while Taliban side was led by Mullah Abdul Ghani Biradar. The Taliban said they felt that the US was "serious" this time in the peace process. They said that besides Khalilzad, US military commander in Afghanistan Gen Scott Miller also taken part in the peace talks in Doha. "We didn't expect that Gen Miller would come with Khalilzad from Kabul to participate in the peace talks. We have realised that the US leadership now seems serious in the peace process," said the Taliban leader.According to Taliban leaders, Anas Haqqani, a former prisoner in Kabul, also participated in the peace talks with the US. He and two other Taliban prisoners were recently freed in exchange for the two foreign nationals in Kabul. Anas Haqqani is the younger brother of Sirajuddin Haqqani, leader of the Haqqani Network and deputy chief of the Afghan Taliban.Upon his release from the Bagram airbase, Taliban chief negotiator Mullah Abdul Ghani Biradar nominated Anas Haqqani as member of the Political Commission and also the negotiation team. According to Taliban leaders, they had offered conditional ceasefire to the US forces in Afghanistan. They added that they had agreed to announce a ceasefire in case the US stopped all military operations against the Taliban."We had given them two options. Either we announce complete ceasefire in case they stop their operations against us (Taliban) or we cease targeting them and their installations in areas from where they withdraw their troops," explained the Taliban leader.According to the Taliban, in the two days of talks Khalilzad and Gen Miller shared with them the exact location of their bases and installations.
"Much of the peace process has already been discussed and agreed upon by the two sides and the US may announce the peace accord either over Christmas or the New Year," said a senior Taliban leader inQatar privy to the peace negotiations.Pleading anonymity, he said that Zalmay Khalilzad was heading the US negotiation team while Taliban side was led by Mullah Abdul Ghani Biradar. The Taliban said they felt that the US was "serious" this time in the peace process. They said that besides Khalilzad, US military commander in Afghanistan Gen Scott Miller also taken part in the peace talks in Doha. "We didn't expect that Gen Miller would come with Khalilzad from Kabul to participate in the peace talks. We have realised that the US leadership now seems serious in the peace process," said the Taliban leader.According to Taliban leaders, Anas Haqqani, a former prisoner in Kabul, also participated in the peace talks with the US. He and two other Taliban prisoners were recently freed in exchange for the two foreign nationals in Kabul. Anas Haqqani is the younger brother of Sirajuddin Haqqani, leader of the Haqqani Network and deputy chief of the Afghan Taliban.Upon his release from the Bagram airbase, Taliban chief negotiator Mullah Abdul Ghani Biradar nominated Anas Haqqani as member of the Political Commission and also the negotiation team. According to Taliban leaders, they had offered conditional ceasefire to the US forces in Afghanistan. They added that they had agreed to announce a ceasefire in case the US stopped all military operations against the Taliban."We had given them two options. Either we announce complete ceasefire in case they stop their operations against us (Taliban) or we cease targeting them and their installations in areas from where they withdraw their troops," explained the Taliban leader.According to the Taliban, in the two days of talks Khalilzad and Gen Miller shared with them the exact location of their bases and installations.
Qatar privy to the peace negotiations.Pleading anonymity, he said that Zalmay Khalilzad was heading the US negotiation team while Taliban side was led by Mullah Abdul Ghani Biradar. The Taliban said they felt that the US was "serious" this time in the peace process. They said that besides Khalilzad, US military commander in Afghanistan Gen Scott Miller also taken part in the peace talks in Doha. "We didn't expect that Gen Miller would come with Khalilzad from Kabul to participate in the peace talks. We have realised that the US leadership now seems serious in the peace process," said the Taliban leader.According to Taliban leaders, Anas Haqqani, a former prisoner in Kabul, also participated in the peace talks with the US. He and two other Taliban prisoners were recently freed in exchange for the two foreign nationals in Kabul. Anas Haqqani is the younger brother of Sirajuddin Haqqani, leader of the Haqqani Network and deputy chief of the Afghan Taliban.Upon his release from the Bagram airbase, Taliban chief negotiator Mullah Abdul Ghani Biradar nominated Anas Haqqani as member of the Political Commission and also the negotiation team. According to Taliban leaders, they had offered conditional ceasefire to the US forces in Afghanistan. They added that they had agreed to announce a ceasefire in case the US stopped all military operations against the Taliban."We had given them two options. Either we announce complete ceasefire in case they stop their operations against us (Taliban) or we cease targeting them and their installations in areas from where they withdraw their troops," explained the Taliban leader.According to the Taliban, in the two days of talks Khalilzad and Gen Miller shared with them the exact location of their bases and installations.
Pleading anonymity, he said that Zalmay Khalilzad was heading the US negotiation team while Taliban side was led by Mullah Abdul Ghani Biradar. The Taliban said they felt that the US was "serious" this time in the peace process. They said that besides Khalilzad, US military commander in Afghanistan Gen Scott Miller also taken part in the peace talks in Doha. "We didn't expect that Gen Miller would come with Khalilzad from Kabul to participate in the peace talks. We have realised that the US leadership now seems serious in the peace process," said the Taliban leader.According to Taliban leaders, Anas Haqqani, a former prisoner in Kabul, also participated in the peace talks with the US. He and two other Taliban prisoners were recently freed in exchange for the two foreign nationals in Kabul. Anas Haqqani is the younger brother of Sirajuddin Haqqani, leader of the Haqqani Network and deputy chief of the Afghan Taliban.Upon his release from the Bagram airbase, Taliban chief negotiator Mullah Abdul Ghani Biradar nominated Anas Haqqani as member of the Political Commission and also the negotiation team. According to Taliban leaders, they had offered conditional ceasefire to the US forces in Afghanistan. They added that they had agreed to announce a ceasefire in case the US stopped all military operations against the Taliban."We had given them two options. Either we announce complete ceasefire in case they stop their operations against us (Taliban) or we cease targeting them and their installations in areas from where they withdraw their troops," explained the Taliban leader.According to the Taliban, in the two days of talks Khalilzad and Gen Miller shared with them the exact location of their bases and installations.
According to Taliban leaders, Anas Haqqani, a former prisoner in Kabul, also participated in the peace talks with the US. He and two other Taliban prisoners were recently freed in exchange for the two foreign nationals in Kabul. Anas Haqqani is the younger brother of Sirajuddin Haqqani, leader of the Haqqani Network and deputy chief of the Afghan Taliban.Upon his release from the Bagram airbase, Taliban chief negotiator Mullah Abdul Ghani Biradar nominated Anas Haqqani as member of the Political Commission and also the negotiation team. According to Taliban leaders, they had offered conditional ceasefire to the US forces in Afghanistan. They added that they had agreed to announce a ceasefire in case the US stopped all military operations against the Taliban."We had given them two options. Either we announce complete ceasefire in case they stop their operations against us (Taliban) or we cease targeting them and their installations in areas from where they withdraw their troops," explained the Taliban leader.According to the Taliban, in the two days of talks Khalilzad and Gen Miller shared with them the exact location of their bases and installations.
Upon his release from the Bagram airbase, Taliban chief negotiator Mullah Abdul Ghani Biradar nominated Anas Haqqani as member of the Political Commission and also the negotiation team. According to Taliban leaders, they had offered conditional ceasefire to the US forces in Afghanistan. They added that they had agreed to announce a ceasefire in case the US stopped all military operations against the Taliban."We had given them two options. Either we announce complete ceasefire in case they stop their operations against us (Taliban) or we cease targeting them and their installations in areas from where they withdraw their troops," explained the Taliban leader.According to the Taliban, in the two days of talks Khalilzad and Gen Miller shared with them the exact location of their bases and installations.
"We had given them two options. Either we announce complete ceasefire in case they stop their operations against us (Taliban) or we cease targeting them and their installations in areas from where they withdraw their troops," explained the Taliban leader.According to the Taliban, in the two days of talks Khalilzad and Gen Miller shared with them the exact location of their bases and installations.
According to the Taliban, in the two days of talks Khalilzad and Gen Miller shared with them the exact location of their bases and installations.
FIR lodged by Hadyara Station House Officer Hamas Hameed includes sections of terrorism and attempted murder
Current Japanese Constitution came into effect on May 3, 1947
KP would have a serious and negative impact on the rest of the country and if the provincial government did not...
Akbar S Babar said verdict relied heavily on self-serving concept of ‘complete justice’ to justify relief provided...
Convoy of more than 10 foreign ambassadors was passing through picturesque town of Malam Jabba in Swat district when...
Daniyal Chaudhary said that Zionist lobbies believe that Imran Khan and his party could represent Israel in Islamic...
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: Bloomberg - Are you a robot?
To continue, please click the box below to let us know you're not a robot.
Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not
            blocking them from loading.
            For more information you can review ourTerms of
                ServiceandCookie Policy.
For inquiries related to this message pleasecontact
            our support teamand provide the reference ID below.

Title: U.S. opens first round of resurrected peace talks with Taliban 
Sign inorSubscribeSee Offers

Account Subscription: ACTIVE
Questions about your account? Our customer service team can be reached atcirculation@metln.orgduring business hours at(207) 791-6000.
The U.S. wants the insurgent group to promise to reduce violence, with a permanent cease-fire being the ultimate goal, according to a press statement.
You are able to gift5more articles this month.
Anyone can access the link you share with no account required.Learn more.
With aKennebec Journal and Morning Sentinelsubscription, you can gift 5 articles each month.
It looks like you do not have any active subscriptions. To get one,go to the subscriptions page.
With aKennebec Journal and Morning Sentinelsubscription, you can gift 5 articles each month.
KABUL, Afghanistan — U.S. peace envoy Zalmay Khalilzad on Saturday held the first official talks with Afghanistan’s Taliban since President Trump declared a near-certain peace deal with the insurgents dead in September.
The talks will initially focus on getting a Taliban promise to reduce violence, with a permanent cease-fire being the eventual goal, said a U.S. statement. Khalilzad is also trying to lay the groundwork for negotiations between Afghans on both sides of the protracted conflict.
Sitting with the Taliban at the negotiating table was Anas Haqqani, one of three senior Taliban freed last month in exchange for kidnapped American University of Afghanistan professors – American Kevin King and Australian Timothy Weeks, Taliban’s political office spokesman Suhail Shaheen tweeted.
Haqqani is the younger brother of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the Taliban’s deputy and the head of the much feared Haqqani network, a U.S. declared terrorist organization.
Tweeting that talks will resume on Sunday, Shaheen also said “we discussed matters related to the signing of the agreement,” without elaborating.
The meetings being held in the Middle Eastern State of Qatar, where the Taliban maintain a political office, follow several days of talks in Afghanistan’s capital, Kabul, where Khalilzad met with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani.Advertisement
The Taliban have so far refused direct talks with Ghani, calling him a U.S. puppet.
Ghani leads the Afghan government with Chief Executive Abdullah Abdullah in a power-sharing agreement brokered by the United States after the presidential elections in 2014 were so deeply mired in corruption that a clear winner could not be determined.
To head off a conflict Washington stepped in and forced the two leading candidates – Ghani and Abdullah – to share power in a so-called Unity Government that has been largely paralyzed because of the relentless bickering between the two leaders.
The Afghan government is now embroiled in a fresh elections standoff. Presidential polls on Sept. 28 again ended in accusations of misconduct, with no results yet announced.
Repeat leading contender Abdullah has challenged the recounting of several hundred thousand ballots, accusing his opponent Ghani of trying to manipulate the tally.
Meanwhile, Khalilzad’s return to his peace mission followed Trump’s surprise Thanksgiving Day visit to Afghanistan in which he said talks with the Taliban were back on.
While Khalilzad is talking to the Taliban about reducing violence, the U.S. military in its daily report said overnight on Saturday U.S. airstrikes killed 37 Taliban and operations by the Afghan National Security Forces killed another 22 of the militants.
The insurgents have continued to carry put near daily strikes against military outposts throughout the country. They now hold sway over nearly half of Afghanistan.
Comments are not available on this story.
Send questions/commentsto the editors.
« Previous
Next »

Title: Resumption of peace talks: Taliban giving final touches to accord
PESHAWAR: The Afghan Taliban said they had resumed the peace process from the point where it was called off by US President Donald Trump in September.
They said presently they were working on the selection of the date and place where the peace accord should be announced. The US and Afghan Taliban resumed peace talks on Saturday in Doha.
"Much of the peace process has already been discussed and agreed upon by the two sides and the US may announce the peace accord either over Christmas or the New Year," said a senior Taliban leader in Qatar privy to the peace negotiations.
Pleading anonymity, he said that Zalmay Khalilzad was heading the US negotiation team while Taliban side was led by Mullah Abdul Ghani Biradar. The Taliban said they felt that the US was "serious" this time in the peace process. They said that besides Khalilzad, US military commander in Afghanistan Gen Scott Miller also taken part in the peace talks in Doha. "We didn't expect that Gen Miller would come with Khalilzad from Kabul to participate in the peace talks. We have realised that the US leadership now seems serious in the peace process," said the Taliban leader.
According to Taliban leaders, Anas Haqqani, a former prisoner in Kabul, also participated in the peace talks with the US. He and two other Taliban prisoners were recently freed in exchange for the two foreign nationals in Kabul. Anas Haqqani is the younger brother of Sirajuddin Haqqani, leader of the Haqqani Network and deputy chief of the Afghan Taliban.
Upon his release from the Bagram airbase, Taliban chief negotiator Mullah Abdul Ghani Biradar nominated Anas Haqqani as member of the Political Commission and also the negotiation team. According to Taliban leaders, they had offered conditional ceasefire to the US forces in Afghanistan. They added that they had agreed to announce a ceasefire in case the US stopped all military operations against the Taliban.
"We had given them two options. Either we announce complete ceasefire in case they stop their operations against us (Taliban) or we cease targeting them and their installations in areas from where they withdraw their troops," explained the Taliban leader.
According to the Taliban, in the two days of talks Khalilzad and Gen Miller shared with them the exact location of their bases and installations. "They wanted to ensure security of these installations and their non-governmental organisations even after their withdrawal. Also, they wanted us to ensure security of the Afghan people who would secure US installations," the Taliban members said.
Taliban leaders in Qatar and Afghanistan said US forces in Afghanistan had made considerable reduction in their operations and airstrikes against them, particularly following the recent visit of President Donald Trump to Kabul.
In Afghanistan, Taliban commanders claimed they had received instructions from their top leaders to "avoid" targeting US troops and their installations until they attacked them. "There is almost an unannounced ceasefire between us as the US forces had stopped operations since Saturday following the beginning of the peace talks in Doha. From our side there has been no attack on US forces anywhere in Afghanistan in the past two days," claimed a Taliban leader in Afghanistan's Helmand province.
However, the Taliban leader said the ceasefire for US forces would have nothing to do with their operations against the Afghan government. "That is what we had discussed with the US leadership and they agreed with us that we would continue our operations against the Afghan government even if we announce a ceasefire for the US," said the Taliban commander.
Another senior Taliban said they were close to signing the peace deal. "All issues with the US have already been resolved in our previous negotiations. Now our representatives are meeting them to overcome some minor issues related to the peace accord. And to decide when and where to announce the peace agreement."
FIR lodged by Hadyara Station House Officer Hamas Hameed includes sections of terrorism and attempted murder
Current Japanese Constitution came into effect on May 3, 1947
KP would have a serious and negative impact on the rest of the country and if the provincial government did not...
Akbar S Babar said verdict relied heavily on self-serving concept of ‘complete justice’ to justify relief provided...
Convoy of more than 10 foreign ambassadors was passing through picturesque town of Malam Jabba in Swat district when...
Daniyal Chaudhary said that Zionist lobbies believe that Imran Khan and his party could represent Israel in Islamic...
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors