Title: Afghan intelligence chief warns Iran and Russia against aiding Taliban | Middle East Institute








Ahmad Majidyar
The head of Afghanistan National Directorate of Security (NDS) has said that Iran and Russia are in contact with the Taliban and are supporting the militant group in Afghanistan. In aninterview with the BBC Persian, Mohammad Masoom Stanekzai pointed out that Tehran and Moscow provide assistance to the Taliban under the pretext of fighting the Islamic State, which has gained a foothold in South Asia in recent years. The Afghan intelligence chief, however, cautioned that such a policy is ill-advised as the Taliban and ISIS are two sides of the same coin. He pointed out that the Kabul government has evidence the Taliban are importing foreign fighters, including ISIS militants, into northern Afghanistan and Central Asia. He rejected the allegation that certain Afghan officials support the Taliban. “If we’re spreading rumors for our political ends without analyzing them, we need to assess their impact on the national interest. This provides an excuse to other countries that say the Taliban are better than ISIS and seek their support to eliminate ISIS.”
Comment: Since the fall of the Taliban 16 years ago, Iran has played both sides of the conflict in Afghanistan. On the one hand, Tehran has cultivated close ties with Kabul and contributed to Afghanistan’s reconstruction. Iran has also emerged as Afghanistan’s largest trading partner as relations between Kabul and Islamabad has been deteriorating. At the same time, however, the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps (IRGC) has been providing training, money, arms and sanctuary to Taliban militants to pressure the US military forces to leave the country. The Iranian government has also used its ties with the Taliban to seek political concessions from the Kabul government.
Lately, the Afghan government has become more vocal about Iran’s relationship with and support for the Taliban. In September, for example, the Chief of General Staff for the Afghanistan National Defense and Security Forcessaidthat the Kabul government had evidence that Iran was providing weapons and other military assets to the Taliban in western Afghanistan. In an interview with the BBC Persian, Lieutenant General Mohammad Sharif Yaftali added that President Ashraf Ghani discussed the issue with his Iranian counterpart Hassan Rouhani in Tehran in August but did not disclose details of the meeting. He stressed that the Afghan government wanted to resolve the issue through “dialogue and understanding”
Last month, a prominent Afghan politiciancautionedthat it was not in the interest of Iran to have close relations with the Taliban. “As an Afghan, I explicitly state that cultivating close relations – I hope it is a mistake – with an enemy, which has no difference with ISIS in its essence and substance, is harmful not only to the Iranian people but also to the people Afghanistan,” Amrullah Saleh, the head of the Afghan Green Trend and former intelligence chief, said at the Tehran Security Conference. He further reminded the audience at the conference that the Taliban harbors sectarian hatred toward the Shiites and massacred ethnic Afghan Hazaras when the terrorist group was in power prior to the 2001 US intervention.
Last year, Afghan officials also alleged that Iran and Russia had teamed up to undermine the US-led stabilization mission in Afghanistan through providing calculated support to the Taliban. “We have received [intelligence] reports that Iran has obtained some weapons from Russia and delivered them to the Taliban. We cannot confirm it 100 percent. But intelligence reports show that the Taliban receive training inside Iran,”Afghanistan’s Ariana Newsquoted Gulbahar Mujahid, the chief security commander of Farah Province, as saying in an interview. Other Farah officials also told Arian News that the Iranian government has established military training centers for Taliban militants in Zabol, a city in Iran’s Sistan and Baluchestan Province, and in the Khorasan region (Khorasan-e Razavi and South Khorasan Provinces). All the three Iranian provinces share border with Afghanistan. “We have received intelligence reports that training camps have been established in Iran’s Naibandan area [in Khorasan], and they provide military training to the Taliban. Indeed, Russia, with Iran’s assistance, is equipping the Taliban with advanced weapons,” Farah’s Deputy Governor Muhammad Younis Rasooli claimed. About 80 percent of Farah Province has reportedly fallen to the Taliban.
Even Iran’s traditional Afghan allies are speaking out. Ismail Khan, a former Afghan jihadi leader and influential politician in western Herat Province,warnedthe Iranian government against providing military and financial assistance to the Taliban militants. “Support for the Taliban will strain our relations and enemies will never be able to secure your borders,” he said last year at a gathering in western Herat Province on the occasion of the 28th anniversary of the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan. He also condemned Russia’s growing ties with the Taliban and called on both Tehran and Moscow to “learn from the past and stop aiding the Taliban.” Khan has also alleged that Taliban militants receive weapons from Turkmenistan.
Likewise, the top American commander in Afghanistan, Army Gen. John Nicholsontoldthe Senate Armed Services Committee that the Iranian government was providing the Taliban with weapons and financial assistance, particularly in western Afghanistan. He also noted that Tehran is also recruiting Shiite fighters in Afghanistan and deploying them to defend the Syrian regime of Iran’s ally Bashar al-Assad. "Russia, Iran, and al Qaeda are playing significant roles in Afghanistan—this wasn't the case a few years ago," the American generaltestified.
Both Iran and Russia have also broadened their diplomatic engagement with the Taliban leadership. Iran has hosted several Taliban delegations for talks and conferences in recent years; and in 2014, the Iranian government “formalized” its relationship with the Taliban by allowing the terrorist group to open an office in Mashhad, the capital of Iran’s Khorasan-e Razavi Province. When a U.S. drone killed Taliban leader Mullah Mansur in Pakistan last year, he wasreturningfrom a trip to Iran. Moscow, too, has cultivated close relations with the Taliban leadership – raisingconcernin Kabul that regional governments are directly engaging the Taliban for their own interests at the expense of Afghanistan’s stability.
On the surface, Iran’s support for the Taliban does not appear logical: Taliban is a reactionary militant group that massacred Afghan Shiites in late 1990s, and Iran and the Taliban almost went to war when the latter killed Iranian diplomats in northern Afghanistan. The Taliban's return to power in Afghanistan would undermine Iran’s geopolitical interests in South and Central Asia and pose a serious threat to Iran’s internal security as well – particularly in its restive Sunni-majority province of Sistan and Baluchestan. But by providing measured support to the Taliban, the Iranian government is pursuing several key objectives in Afghanistan: to accelerate the withdrawal of US troops from its eastern border; to establish a buffer zone in western Afghanistan against a potential threat of Islamic State; to use its ties with the Taliban for its geopolitical agenda in South and Central Asia as well as in the Middle East; and to pressure the Afghan government for political concessions.
The Middle East Institute (MEI) is an independent, non-partisan, non-for-profit, educational organization. It does not engage in advocacy and its scholars’ opinions are their own. MEI welcomes financial donations, but retains sole editorial control over its work and its publications reflect only the authors’ views. For a listing of MEI donors, please clickhere.
media@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x241
events@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x202
development@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x203
mej@mei.edu
202-785-1141 x205
communications@mei.edu
202-785-1141
Middle East Institute1763 N St. NW, Washington D.C. 20036

© 2018 Middle East Institute All Rights Reserved |Accessibility Policy| Built bySocial Driver.

Title: Taliban ready to join Afghanistan Peace Conference in Tashkent to be held on March 26-27
Kabul, Afghanistan: Taliban are ready to join Afghanistan Peace Conference in Tashkent to be held on March 26-27.
Political indicators received in Capital of Afghanistan suggest that Taliban are ready to attend Afghanistan Peace Conference in Tashkent if they (Taliban) are invited by President Ashraf Ghani. However, no official comments are released by Taliban yet to confirm that they would definitely attend this conference.
The conference titled “”Afghanistan – path to a peaceful future” is initiative of Uzbekistan to bring peace in Afghanistan. Uzbek Foreign Minister Abdulaziz Kamilov said in Uzbek press that his country is committed to bring peace in neighbouring Afghanistan.
Uzbekistan believes that the choice of finding peace process remains the only solution to take Afghanistan out of decades-old civil war and all stakeholders need to sit together and find a way out to ensure better future of Afghan nation.
Sources in Kabul confirm that fighting faction of Taliban can join talks in Tashkent and a serious dialogue can be initiated because Kabul government is now ready to negotiate with Taliban.
Sources say that Kabul government wants talks without fixing preconditions but Taliban demand certain conditions to join talks.
There is a pressure on Kabul government from neighbouring countries as well as from some western countries to sit with Taliban for talks while US-led forces present in Afghanistan believe that use of power against Taliban and talks with them should go side-by-side. It may be mentioned that President Ashraf Ghani in his opening remarks at the second Kabul Process Conference held in Kabul on Wednesday offered peace talks to Taliban to “save the Country” (Afghanistan) from further disaster.
Meanwhile, United States has also supported peace talks in Tashkent and State Department spokesman Heather Nauert  that Uzbekistan plays a historical role in the stability of Afghanistan, and this conference can in many ways be considered the return of (Uzbekistan) to the international arena.
“This is an initiative under the leadership and responsibility of the Afghans themselves, the goal (meetings) is to try to bring together a number of international partners to coordinate international efforts to support the actions of the Afghan government to achieve peace,” Nauert said.
Dispatch News Desk is an award-winning News Agency of Pakistan founded by Agha Iqrar Haroon, a well-knownesearch journalist and political analyst in 2013

Title: Is Peace Possible in Afghanistan? - Atlantic Council
Our programs and centers deliver in-depth, highly relevant issue briefs and reports that break new ground, shift opinions, and set agendas on public policy, with a focus on advancing debates by integrating foundational research and analysis with concrete policy solutions.
When major global news breaks, the Atlantic Council’s experts have you covered—delivering their sharpest rapid insight and forward-looking analysis direct to your inbox.
New Atlanticist is where top experts and policymakers at the Atlantic Council and beyond offer exclusive insight on the most pressing global challenges—and the United States’ role in addressing them alongside its allies and partners.
A weekly column by Atlantic Council President and CEO Frederick Kempe, Inflection Points focuses on the global challenges facing the United States and how to best address them.
UkraineAlert is a comprehensive online publication that provides regular news and analysis on developments in Ukraine’s politics, economy, civil society, and culture. UkraineAlert sources analysis and commentary from a wide-array of thought-leaders, politicians, experts, and activists from Ukraine and the global community.
MENASource offers the latest news from across the Middle East, combined with commentary by contributors, interviews with emerging players, multi-media content, and independent analysis from fellows and staff.
Econographics provides an in-depth look at trends in the global economy utilizing state-of-the-art data visualization tools.
New Atlanticist
February 28, 2018
ByCarmen Gentile
Amid ongoing, deadly attacks in the Afghan capital and elsewhere, the Taliban has reached out to the United States to begin peace talks aimed at ending more than seventeen years of conflict between US-led forces and the once-ruling extremist group.
At least, that’s what the group’s open letter in February reads. In it, the Taliban states it is imploring the American people and members of Congress to convince the Trump administration of the necessity for the talks.
Afghan President Ashraf Ghani on February 28 extended his own olive branchby offering to recognize the Taliban as a legitimate political group as part of a proposed peace process. He said he was making the offer “without preconditions.”The Taliban’s offer comes at a seemingly odd time for the group considering that it has retaken much of the territory it lost following the 2001 US-led invasion that forced it from power.
Currently, the Taliban has a strong hold over large parts of southern Afghanistan, including its birthplace, Kandahar Province. The extremist fighters have also regained significant territory in neighboring Helmand Province where US Marines have waged a deadly battle against the Taliban for several years.
Today, the Taliban controls much of rural Afghanistan, both in terms of territory and the hearts and minds of many who have grown weary of constant fighting and never took to a Kabul-centric government closely allied with Washington that they feel has done little or nothing to improve their lives.
For some, the Taliban, though hardline and merciless, did provide much-wanted stability following the exodus of Soviet forces in 1989.
The withdrawal of Russian troops followed years of civil war between factions of mujahideen fighters, some allied to the United States, which largely turned its attention away from Afghanistan once the last Soviet tank rolled out of the country.
Out of that melee emerged the Taliban, a group of Islamic fundamentalist students (talibmeans student in Arabic), many of whom were educated in hardline religious schools (madrassas) in Pakistan and were provided weapons and training from that country’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) agency.
Among the most prominent of the Taliban’s founders was its infamous leader Mullah Omar. Born in southern Afghanistan, he made his reputation fighting the Soviets, losing his right eye along the way.
When the mujahideen factions began their infighting, Omar and a group of his loyal commanders formed the Taliban. They consolidated power by defeating the other groups and eventually taking the Afghan capital, Kabul, in 1996.
The Taliban ruled Afghanistan with impunity for five years with Omar as the supreme leader. Under his rule, the harshest interpretation of Shariah law was strictly enforced. Music was banned and men were forced to grow out their beards, while women were stripped of nearly all their rights. Those that defied the Taliban doctrine were often executed publicly in stadiums once used for sport events.
The Taliban also gave shelter to al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden after he was forced to leave Sudan in 1996. In the years leading up to the September 11, 2001, terror attacks on the United States, al Qaeda used Afghanistan as a safe haven for recruiting and training fighters.
After the initial US-led invasion in 2001, the Taliban was largely defeated and went to ground in its traditional strongholds in eastern Afghanistan like Nangarhar, Kunar, and Nuristan provinces. In southern Afghanistan, they have rallied their forces and resources in Kandahar, Helmand, and other provinces where their support among civilians remained strong.
As the Taliban is fond of saying: “The Americans have the watches, but we have the time.” The extremist fighters managed to wait out the US-led coalition so when George W. Bush administration decided to invade Iraq, taking much of its focus off of Afghanistan, the Taliban made its move.
By 2008, the Taliban had regained more than half of the territory it lost following the 2001 invasion, prompting newly-elected US President Barack Obama to order a troop surge in 2009 that added tens of thousands of additional US forces to the battlefield.
For five years US troop levels hovered around 100,000 strong in Afghanistan before the Obama administration ordered a significant drawdown to some 10,000 troops. The White House was widely criticized for telegraphing the drawdown, thus giving the Taliban incentive to wait out their departure before ramping up their offensive against Afghan security forces and attacks on civilian and diplomatic targets in Kabul and other major cities.
The Taliban began retaking large swathes of the country, village by village, until it managed to coalesce its gains into a majority of the country’s territory. It set up shadow governments that oftentimes usurped all authority at local levels from those leaders that had the backing of Kabul.
The Taliban continues to operate in much of rural Afghanistan under the same system. With US forces drawn down to about 14,000 troops, most of them concentrated on larger bases, the Taliban fight is mostly between it and Afghan forces and occasionally those that splintered from the Taliban into an Islamic State faction in eastern Afghanistan. The Islamic State in Afghanistan has made Nangarhar Province its base of operations, an area once occupied by the Taliban and al Qaeda forces loyal to Bin Laden.
There are factions within the umbrella of “Taliban” that also occasionally do battle with the Taliban. One group known as the Renouncers has even in recent months been aided by the Afghan government in its fight against its former brothers in arms. The Afghan government is reportedly providing the Renouncers with weapons and logistical and intelligence support.
Mullah Mohammad Rasoul leads the Renouncers. Rasoul left the main Taliban faction in anger over the way the death of Omar, who passed in 2013, was concealed until 2015 by Omar’s replacement Mullah Akhtar Muhammad Mansour.
Mansour was killed in a US airstrike in 2016. Following his death, the Taliban dealt with some infighting and confusion regarding its leadership, as well as challenges from the Islamic State in Afghanistan for fighters and resources.
Not all of the Taliban’s factions do battle in Afghanistan. The Pakistani Taliban, also known as the Tehrik-i-Taliban (TTP) Pakistan, has ties to its Afghan counterparts, though it has focused much of its efforts on the Pakistani side of the border with the occasional incursion into Afghanistan.
The Afghan Taliban, meanwhile, does take advantage of that largely porous and unprotected border and its relationship with the ISI.
Pakistan’s ISI is seemingly intent on keeping Afghanistan in a perpetual state of war and uncertainty in an effort to counter arch rival India’s efforts to play a larger role in Afghanistan. For decades, the ISI has provided weapons and other support to the Afghan Taliban and other extremist groups in Afghanistan such as the Haqqani Network led by Sirajuddin Haqqani after the death of his father, Jalaluddin, in 2014. Haqqani was appointed deputy leader of the Taliban in 2015 in a move that cemented ties between the Taliban and the Haqqani Network. Hibatullah Akhundzada leads this main faction of the Taliban.
Against this continued fighting, myriad alliances and rivalries, plus the uncertainty it produces, the Taliban offer for peace talks is even more confusing.
Previous attempts at peace talks have come up short. In 2010, the Afghan government reportedly held secret talks with Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, a senior Taliban leader. After Baradar was arrested by Pakistani authorities in the city of Karachi theAfghan government denied that it had been talking with him.
Negotiations set in Doha in 2016 between Taliban leaders and the Afghan government fizzled soon thereafter. Among the points of contention were the flying of the Taliban flag and display of other emblems at the extremist group’s Doha office. The Afghan government said this undermined its diplomatic authority on the world stage.
More recently, the Chinese government has thrown its hat into the Afghan peace talks ring joining peace talks that took place in February that also drew to the table delegations from Afghanistan, Pakistan, and the United States.
Given the scant success of past efforts to end the war in Afghanistan, it is anyone’s guess where these latest offers of peace will lead.
Carmen Gentile is a freelance journalist and author of the book “Blindsided by the Taliban.” Follow him on Twitter @CarmenGentile.

Image: Afghan commandos are seen in Qala-i-Zal, a district in Afghanistan's northern Kunduz Province, on May 16, 2017. (Reuters/Nasir Wakif)
© 2024 Atlantic CouncilAll rights reserved.
LIVE: The 2024 Global Future Forum

Title: 
8 militants killed, commander arrested in N. Afghanistan - Xinhua | English.news.cn

MAZAR-I-SHARIF, Afghanistan, Feb. 22 (Xinhua) -- At least eight Taliban militants were killed and a local Taliban commander was arrested following an Afghan Special Operations Forces operation in the country's northern province of Balkh, local police said Thursday.
"The raid was launched early Thursday morning in Noshira area of Chamtal district, leaving eight Taliban militants dead and a Taliban divisional commander named Mullah Akhtar arrested," Sayyed Sarwar Housaini, spokesman of 707 Pamir Police Zone based in the region, told Xinhua.
According to Housaini, no civilian or security force member has sustained life or property losses during the operation.
Fighting has escalated in Afghanistan as the Taliban insurgency spreads from its traditional strongholds in the south and east to the once peaceful region in the north, where Taliban have been recruiting from among the youth.
Taliban has yet to comment on the report.
MAZAR-I-SHARIF, Afghanistan, Feb. 22 (Xinhua) -- At least eight Taliban militants were killed and a local Taliban commander was arrested following an Afghan Special Operations Forces operation in the country's northern province of Balkh, local police said Thursday.
"The raid was launched early Thursday morning in Noshira area of Chamtal district, leaving eight Taliban militants dead and a Taliban divisional commander named Mullah Akhtar arrested," Sayyed Sarwar Housaini, spokesman of 707 Pamir Police Zone based in the region, told Xinhua.
According to Housaini, no civilian or security force member has sustained life or property losses during the operation.
Fighting has escalated in Afghanistan as the Taliban insurgency spreads from its traditional strongholds in the south and east to the once peaceful region in the north, where Taliban have been recruiting from among the youth.
Taliban has yet to comment on the report.
Copyright © 2000 - 2018 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.

Title: Report: Tribal Elders Say Pakistani Engineers Helping Taliban Mine Gold
Tribal leaders near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border claim Taliban terrorists are mining gold in Afghanistan with the help of Pakistani engineers, an allegation that the jihadist group and the local government deny.
The U.S. valued Afghanistan’s mineral resources at about $1 trillion in 2010.
Pajhwok Afghan Newsreportsthat the Taliban has found gold in Afghanistan’s Ghazni province, located close to the international boundary that divides the country from Pakistan.
“The Zarkashan Mountain which contains a gold mine is being dug by the Taliban with the help of Pakistani engineers,” Haji Obaidullah, a tribal elder in Ghazni’s Maqur district, told Pajhwok, noting that the gold mine has been under the terrorist group’s control for several years now.
Echoing Obaidullah and other residents, Haji Gheyasuddin, another tribal leader in the region, also told Pajhwok that the Taliban had conquered the Maqur areas that contained gold mines.
Mohammad Arif Noori, a spokesman for the governor of Ghazni, dismissed the allegations as false, saying the Taliban could not extract gold from the Zarkashan mine.
“There are no Pakistanis in the area, and the mine is under no threat to be looted because extracting a mineral needs advanced machines and huge amounts of money which the Taliban do not have and Pakistanis cannot bring them,” the spokesman told Pajhwok Afghan News.
A spokesman for the Taliban also denied that the group is extracting gold from the mine.
“Taliban are not involved in extracting this mine, it is extracted by local people, and we do not interfere because the people who are working there are poor,” Zabihullah Mujahid, said the mine was being extracted by local people.
In its latest assessment of the Afghan war, the Pentagonconcededthat the Taliban and other terrorist groups generate funds through illicit mining.
Pentagon and Afghan officials have longaccusedPakistan of harboring Taliban jihadists and their allies, namely the Haqqani Network, something that Islamabad denies.
Stephen A. Feinberg, a billionaire financier who is informally advising U.S. President Donald Trump on Afghanistan,toldtheNew York Times (NYT)last year that some of the country’s most abundant mineral deposits are in areas controlled by the Taliban.
Afghanistan’s neighbor China, which has expressed interest in harnessing Afghanistan’s mineral deposits, reportedly reached adealwith the Taliban that allows Beijing to mine without worrying about the safety of its workers.
Various analysts have cautioned that deteriorating security conditions, primarily at the hands of the Afghan Taliban, and alackof reliable transportation infrastructure are hurdles to mining minerals in Afghanistan.
Afghan President Ashraf Ghani has voicedsupportfor the Trump administration’seffortsto develop Afghanistan’s lucrative mining industry.
Pleaselet us knowif you're having issues with commenting.




Copyright © 2024 Breitbart

Title: 
            Are Afghan Taliban invincible?
          
US
Trump administration’s heavy military strategy to weaken Taliban before any peace talks is doomed already
COMMENTS (2)
Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive.
For more information, please see ourComments FAQ
Ryan Murphy responds to Erik Menendez's criticism of Netflix's 'Monsters: The Lyle and Erik Menendez Story’
This news follows reports that Kim is becoming increasingly worried about Kanye’s recent behavior.
Fans react as Meek Mill declares, 'I wanna hire an investigative team,' offering $100K to clear his name in Diddy case
TikToker Jacob Savage faces controversy after alleged explicit video of him cheating with ex Rachel Weaver goes viral.
Increasing Commercial Confidence through Meditation
Sweat it out
Understanding constitutional package: a logical approach
Pakistan-BD proximity and scepticism in India
TAPI progression and prospect of Pakistan-Iran gas pipeline
Mental health: unseen casualty of politics, media and bureaucracy
Increasing Commercial Confidence through Meditation
Future of higher education
TAPI progression and prospect of Pakistan-Iran gas pipeline
Understanding constitutional package: a logical approach
Pakistan-BD proximity and scepticism in India
Bharat and the idea of India
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
redistributed or derived from. Unless otherwise stated, all content is
copyrighted © 2024 The Express Tribune.

Title: Afghanistan: The Rise of Yet Another ISIS Front – MIR
The McGill International Review - Canada's premier undergraduate journal of international affairs
With the withdrawal of most coalition troops after 16 years of Operation Enduring Freedom, Afghanistan has emerged as another important front for the Islamic State, operating under the branch known as Islamic State – Khorasan Province (ISKP) along the Afghan-Pakistan border. Ambitions of driving out the Taliban and subsequent promises of nation-building have largely failed, as manykey districtsof Afghanistan are currently under Taliban control and the central government remains weak and ineffective. With most of ISIS having been expelled from its original stronghold in Iraq and Syria, the group has sought to expand in areas affected by war and lacking effective central governance. ISKP’s presence in Afghanistan threatens peace negotiations between the government and the Taliban, as their strategy remains to divide and rule Afghan society. While the prospect of ISIS establishing a lasting foothold in Afghanistan is unlikely, growing concerns around the group’s presence include questions of domestic political stability and regional security.
Despite continuedairstrikesby the United States, along with fervent Taliban and government opposition, ISIS in Afghanistan continues to attack both civilian and military targets throughout the country. In July 2016, ISKP claimed responsibility for abloody suicide bombingon a peaceful demonstration in Kabul, killing over 80 and demonstrating the group’s capacity to carry out large-scale attacks. On January 24thISKP raided aSave the Childrenoffice in Jalalabad, resulting in several deaths. Additionally, ISIS cells have been reported operating within Kabul; the group claimed responsibility for nearly20 attacksin the past 18 months in the capital city alone. Though 2014 looked positive for Afghanistan’s future because of developments like the large withdrawals of Coalition forces, negotiations between the Taliban and Pakistan, and the country’s first democratic transfer of power, Afghanistan has seen far more violence and instability since 2014.
While it is difficult to pinpoint exactly when ISIS first emerged in Afghanistan, somenotethat ISIS began to reach into the country around 2014, a pivotal year for the Caliphate’s expansion. The ISKP affiliate was initially composed ofdisaffected Talibanmembers who sought torebrandthemselves as soldiers of a powerful, global terror brand. Much of this disillusionment among former Taliban members stemmed from peace negotiations held with the Afghan government, which if successful, would havelikely resulted in significant losses of territory for the Taliban. A number of key local factors also contributed to ISIS’s newfoundfoothold, perhaps the most important being the lack ofcentralized controlexercise by the Afghan government in the country’s remote mountainous and desert regions. Local frustrations have further contributed to radicalization, including reasons for resentment towards Kabul and the West, coupled with issues of poverty and lack of basic services. ISKP remains most active in the eastern province of Nangarhar, owing to its isolated, mountainous terrain where insurgents can hide and gainsupport from local Salaficommunities. Luckily, the group’s base seems contained there.
A societystructuredalong ethnic and tribal lines, Afghanistan has traditionally been very hostile towards foreign powers and influences. Winning the “hearts and minds” of Afghani locals constitutes a feat that even the Afghan central government has failed to accomplish, not to mention attempts made by the Soviets in the 1980s or Coalition forces since 2001. Part of the Taliban’s success in Afghanistan, which was90 percent controlledby the group at one point, was largely due to its ability toresonatewith the local population due to a shared ethnicity and language, in addition to broader nationalistic appeal. On the other hand, perceived as a foreign power with no localized roots, ISKP struggles to make inroads with an already war-weary Afghan population. Ideologically, ISKP follows a strict Salafist creed that is antithetical to more mystic, Sufi-influenced Afghani religious practices. This religious difference once again places the group in stark contrast with local realities. Competing with a force with a considerable degree of domestic legitimacy, ISKP, as Vanda Felbab-Browncontends, critically lacks the Taliban’s image as a “pan-Afghan, national, potent, long-established insurgency.”
Aside from local support, ISKP’s ambitions in Afghanistan cannot be sustained without a regional support or financial base. The Taliban is aided by aporous borderwith Pakistan that allows for the smuggling of arms and fighters. The group is also helped by its leadership structure concentrated in Pakistan’s northwestern tribal areas. ISKP is inherently unable to garner the same support among locals and even more unlikely to do so across the border in Pakistan. As securing financial support is absolutely critical for maintaining an insurgency and attempting to state-build, ISKP will only expand its reach in Afghanistan if it successfully taps into key local industries, either theopium tradeor cross-bordertimber smuggling. This strategy worked in Syria and Iraq, where key sources of revenue were extracted from captured oil fields. With a virtual Taliban monopoly on opium and heavy Taliban control over timber smuggling, extortion of local tribal elders will not be enough to sustain a long-term ISKP presence.
However, it is important to not underestimate the potency of ISIS’s reach within Afghanistan. Though unlikely to establish a caliphate, ISIS does pose a threat to hopes of lasting peace in Afghanistan. ISKP has demonstrated its notorious ability to conduct brutal attacks on “soft” (i.e. civilian) targets —a tactic that the Taliban has tried to avoid— and to disrupt extremely fortified areas of major cities with deadly suicide attacks. Though the Taliban can use these tactics to their advantage by portraying themselves as atolerable alternativeto ISKP, continued attacks under the banner of the Islamic State serve to destabilize and provoke additional violence. A comprehensivepeace agreementwill not be signed with continued Taliban-ISKP violence, as both groups will simply escalate attacks and continue to arm themselves in attempts to outdo each other. A settlement would additionally frame the Taliban as sellouts to the Afghan government, giving ISKP greater credibility to engage in anti-government attacks and expand its reach. The Taliban simply cannot afford to lose its appeal and influence to an outside ideological alternative.
Regionally, it is important to look at ISIS’s ambitions of spreading east into Pakistan and north into Central Asia, a key buffer zone for countries such as Russia and China. While ISIS’s prospects in Afghanistan are limited by a variety of domestic structural and ideological factors, the group remains bent on establishing cells and spreading into Central Asian republics providing a fresh recruitment pool of young Muslims. Continued insurgent violence in Afghanistan threatens to spill over into neighbouring countries, where ISIS could open new fronts in its global jihad. It has aligned with sympathetic Salafist groups such as the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU), which publiclyswore allegianceto the Caliphate in 2015. Within the region, ISIS’s expansion could give rise to new insurgencies and potential refugee crises, and it would likely prompt regional powers like Russia and China to intervene. ISIS also threatens to establish a significant foothold in Pakistan, exploiting the porous border and mountainous terrain to establish safe havens. Denying opportunities to advance deeper into Pakistan will require key cooperation and coordination efforts on both sides.
The future of ISIS in Afghanistan is likely to be short-lived, owing to continued U.S. airstrikes and fervent Taliban opposition. Though ISKP will try to take advantage of the deep-seated political, ethnic, and tribal divisions in Afghanistan, the group will be severely limited by the short-term cross-ethnic alliances that are likely to develop as they have historically. Furthermore, ISKP risks alienating the population whose support any successful insurgency critically needs. It is essential, also, that Pakistan take concrete measures to deny ISIS sanctuary on its side of the border and show its willingness to cooperate with Afghanistan. The most effective course of action, however, is to strengthen the fragmented Afghan National Unity government and the ill-equipped and poorly-trained Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF). However, confidence in the Afghan government, despite democratic elections having been held in 2014, remains dangerously low. A united and effective National Unity government will build greater public confidence in the country’s leadership, helping address some of the grievances that ISIS so successfully exploits.
Edited by Jason Li
Hailing from Massachusetts, Steven is in his final year pursuing an honours degree in Political Science. His interests include post-Soviet transitions and Middle Eastern politics, specifically as related to sectarian conflicts fueled by proxy wars. Steven is also very passionate about tracking U.S. congressional races. He looks forward to a great publishing year at MIR and to create an environment where all writers can grow and channel their interests and opinions!

Title: Child Soldiers Say Under IS, It Was Normal to Kill Someone
No media source currently available
WATCH: Ayesha Tanzeem's video report on Child Soldiers' Life with IS in Afghanistan
Print
Recruited as a child soldier into Islamic State’s branch in Afghanistan and Pakistan, Lal Mohammed accompanied his elder teenage brother, Bakht e Ali and their father, Taweez Khan into the training and indoctrination for a promised life of religious glory. They lived for almost two years as members of the Wilayet e Khorasan, or Islamic State Khorasan Province, in Eastern Afghanistan.
“I was nine years old when I was with them. Now I am 12. They used to show us videos on how to fight and carry out suicide bombings,” Mohammad said.His older brother was around 16 when he joined the militant group.
Islamic State, known regionally as ISKP, emerged in the region in early 2015. Most originally belonged to the Pakistani Taliban, which had been displaced from their stronghold in Pakistan’s tribal areas by a military operation.
Across the border in Afghanistan, 15 years of war had left vast swathes of territory without government. The age-old Pashtun tradition of welcoming guests helped them find shelter in the homes of local Shinwari tribesmen, who had been refugees during the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in the 1980s and were eager to return the favor.
Eastern Afghanistan, particularly Nangarhar province, became an IS stronghold.
Later, many of those who provided shelter had to flee with their families, often leaving their belongings behind.
“When Daesh (ISKP) came to our area, most people already sympathized with them,” Ali said. “Our tribal elders and religious clerics started backing them. Daesh commanders started sitting with us in our homes. They would show us videos of the infidels oppressing Muslims.”
The militants told the locals their police and army were puppets of infidels and they needed to rise up in jihad, a holy war. Some of the locals, like Khan and his sons, joined their ranks.
Life with ISKP
Life with ISKP for the boys was regimented. They woke up before dawn to offer morning prayers, followed by religious lessons focused on jihad, then daily chores, and finally weapons training.Ali recalled around 100 to 150 kids who lived and trained with them, including some who were under 10 years old, like his brother, Mohammad.“I saw it with my own eyes. They used to tell these young kids that if they carried out suicide bombings, all their troubles would be over and they would go straight to paradise. They were so good at indoctrination that any child who listened to them for a month would not listen to anyone else.”
All the children's needs, clothing, weapons, food, were taken care of. Khan, their father, received a salary from ISKP.
The two brothers remember their training to be very disciplined. The ultimate goal was to make them suicide bombers.
One day, they took the younger brother on a mission. “Daesh fighters told me we were going to be in a firefight, and that they would stay behind and open fire from the check post. I should go forward and explode my suicide vest,” Mohammad said.
ISKP lost that fight and had to retreat. He came back alive.
The militants focused on molding young minds by showing videos and playing militant music to increase the boys' sense of affiliation with IS. The brothers said the idea of being part of something bigger than themselves, a battle between good and evil, felt good.'We wanted to slaughter someone'Militants punished anyone who did not follow their fundamentalist brand of sharia. “We’ve seen torture. We’ve seen it happening to our own friends or relatives,” Ali recalled.He also recalled how normal it was to kill someone.“We saw a lot of people get slaughtered. We also wanted to slaughter someone because we were told that this would bring us holy rewards from God. People who disagreed with Daesh were slaughtered.”
Khan said, “Sometimes they would tie people’s hands and feet, and then slaughter them. Sometimes they would hang a man from a tree and just leave him there to die. Sometimes they would just beat someone up with batons 'til he died,” he said.Escaping from the militants
Not everyone was happy with the militants, but if someone tried to escape, ISKP militants usually went after them to punish or kill them.
Despite that danger, and the promises of heaven and glorious rewards from God, the father and sons said the atrocities became too much for them to handle.
Khan described a growing sense of alienation from the group, which he started seeing as foreigners oppressing his countrymen.
“These men from TTP (Pakistani Taliban) started working here as IS. They started taking land and trees from the locals as spoils of war,” he said. “They used to kidnap Afghanis to get ransom,” he added.
Eventually, Khan decided to take his sons, and some other men under his command, and escape to a government controlled area. They surrendered to local police. He now works with the police.“Even now, if IS finds out we are here, they will find us and kill us,” Ali said.
Meanwhile, they have no idea of the fate of dozens of other child soldiers who were living with ISKP.According to a Human Rights Watch report, the Taliban have also trained and deployed scores of children for military operations and used them to plant homemade bombs.The United Nations has documented the use of child soldiers by Afghan police.In December last year, the Afghan government signed an initiative called the Child Protection Policy, with the aim of protecting children in conflict zones, including barring its security forces from using children in armed conflict.But for children like Ali and Mohammad, there is no effective program to de-radicalize and re-integrate them into society. Now, Bakht e Ali works as a security guard, while Lal Mohammad stays at home and has not joined school again.


Title: Man Accused of Adultery Stoned to Death by ISIS, Images Show | The Epoch Times
Friends Read Free
A man accused of adultery was stoned to death by ISIS terrorists in Afghanistan, photos released online show.
Disturbing images, reportedly released by ISIS’s Khorasan Province branch, show the before and after shots of a man who was executed by public stoning.
One image shows a blindfolded man kneeling down before a large crowd, with what looks like an ISIS flag in the background. Dozens of men in the crowd appear to be holding stones, with piles of stones near at their feet.
The next image depicts the man lying on the ground surrounded by stones, as the mob continues to hurl heavy rocks at him.
A third picture shows what appears to be the lifeless body of the man wrapped up in cloth. Men and boys look at the covered corpse while it is being tied onto a stretcher.
This is not the first time ISIS has purportedly released images of public stonings of accused adulterers.

Title: Flagging Pakistani Taliban Loses Another Top Gun – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
Mehsud Taliban leader Khan Said Sajna is reported dead in a drone strike.
The banned Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) received a serious blow on Friday when the group’s second-in-command Khan Said, alias Sajna, wasreportedly killedin a suspected drone strike in Afghanistan’s southeastern Paktika province on February 9.
Khan Said Sajna was the deputy of the TTP chief Mullah Fazlullah, who is reportedly hiding in Afghanistan’s eastern Kunar province sincehis miraculous escapefrom a massive military operation by the Pakistani security forces in the country’s tourist resort of Swat in mid-2009.
The TTP of Mullah Fazlullah is responsible for some of the worst terrorist attacks to ever take place in Pakistan, including the slaughter of 150 people, a majority of them schoolchildren, in a December 2014 attack at a military-run school in Pakistan’s north-western town of Peshawar.
Over the past several years, the Pakistani authorities have accused the Afghan government of harboring the anti-Pakistan Tehrik-e-Taliban on its soil, exactly the way the Afghan authorities have been accusing their Pakistani neighbor of providing safe havens to the Afghan Taliban and their affiliates, the Haqqani terrorist network.
The TTP, which converted Pakistan’s South Waziristan tribal district into its headquarters during the time of itsfounding chief Baitullah Mehsud,came to be seen as an existential threat by the Pakistani government and its security agencies. Pakistan had to conduct numerous military operations starting from 2007 to weaken and dislodge the TTP from the Waziristan tribal region.
The highly resilient and undeterred TTP finally received a crushing blow when Baitullah Mehsud was targeted by a drone while he was resting on the roof of the house of his father-in-law in August 2009.
His death kicked off a vicious power struggle among the TTP leadership, which mostly come from the Mehsud tribe. But a young charismatic leader, Hakimullah Mehsud, finally prevailed and was recognized as the successor of Baitullah Mehsud.
The dreaded Hakimullah Mehsud soon proved his mettle by launching a series of reckless attacks in the cities and towns. However, he was also killed in a drone strike in November 2013. Months before, another top TTP gun, Wali Rahman Mehsud, was killed in a similar strike in May 2013.
The TTP came to a crossroads after the killing of Hakimullah Mehsud and the leadership crisis divided the once strong umbrella organization into small groups and factions. The division made way for a nontribal Taliban leader, Mullah Fazlullah, to become its head.
Hailing from the district of Swat, Fazlullah preferred to live across the border in Afghanistan instead of making Waziristan or any other area in the tribal belt his headquarters. That disappointed several senior and mid-ranking commanders from the new leadership. Commander Khan Said alias Sajna was also among those.
“Sajna” is a Punjabi language word which means a “close friend.” It is also an oft-repeated word in Bollywood songs. Locals said Khan Said was dubbed Sajna by the TTP’s founding chief Baitullah Mehsud because the two were close friends. Sajna also served as the TTP treasurer under Baitullah Mehsud.
Both Baitullah Mehsud and Khan Said Sajna belonged to the Shabi Khel branch of the Mehsud tribe and both started their jihad by fighting alongside the Taliban in Afghanistan.
The 46-year-old Sajna formed his own group under the banner of “Mehsud Taliban” following the elevation of a nontribal and non-Mehsud leader to the top position of the TTP. He had recently rejoined the TTP after the group’s chief, Mullah Fazlullah, offered him the position of his deputy. A senior journalist who met Sajna about a year ago says that his fighters were using Bermal district of Afghanistan as their stronghold, from where they launched attacks both in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Before rejoining the TTP, Sajna was seen as less hard-line than his current and two former chiefs (Fazlullah, Baitullah, and Hakimullah) besides having a moderate approach toward Pakistan. Mullah Fazlullah and his predecessors made Pakistan the key target of their attacks. Fazlullah, hiding across the border, is still sending attackers to hit civilians and military targets inside Pakistan.
Locals say Khan Said was getting support from the Zadran tribe in Bermal district of Afghanistan’s Paktika province and he used to remain in close contact with the top commanders of the Afghan Taliban and the Haqqani Network.
Unlike the TTP commander Mullah Fazlullah, who is reportedly hiding in eastern Afghanistan, Sajna was living in Afghanistan’s southeast along with his fighters. Locals say majority of the Mehsud Taliban shifted to Bermal district of Afghanistan and gathered there under the banner of Khan Said Sajna following the launch of the Operation Zarb-e-Azb by the Pakistani security forces in June 2014.
Afghanistan’s Bermal district has strategic importance for the Waziristani Taliban, as it shares a border with both South Waziristan at the Angoor Adda area and North Waziristan at Shawal and Dattakhel. There are several crossing points that the Taliban usually cross on foot. It takes around 30 minutes by car to cross into Bermal from Waziristan via Angoor Adda, locals say.
The killing of Khan Said Sajna is a serious blow for the TTP, which has yet to recover from the two successive strikes that killed its top guns, Wali Rahman and Hakimullah Mehsud, in May and November 2013. Another weak point of the TTP is that its current chief Mullah Fazlullah is hiding in a hostile area where the Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP) is gradually increasing its footprint.
According to local sources, the Mehsud Taliban, as they preferred to be called instead of TTP, have temporarily nominated Maulvi Khatir as Sajna’s successor. However, their shura (committee), will be meeting soon to appoint his permanent successor, who will be endorsed by TTP chief Mullah Fazlullah.
Daud Khattak is Senior Editor for Radio Free Europe Radio Liberty’s Pashto languageMashaal Radio. Before joining RFE/RL, Khattak worked forThe News Internationaland London’sSunday Timesin Peshawar, Pakistan. He has also worked for Pajhwok Afghan News in Kabul. The views expressed here are the author’s own and do not represent those of RFE/RL.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: 
		Afghanistan Quagmire Leaves U.S. With No Good Options	
Your Trusted Source for National Security News & Analysis
YouTubeLinkedInXFacebookInstagram
Update: June 18, 2018 – Despite an incredibly rare ceasefire between the Afghan Government and the Taliban in observance of Eid al-Fitr, two deadly suicide bombings rocked Jalalabad over the weekend.
Officials said the latest attack in eastern Nangarhar Province killed at least 18 people and wounded as many as 50 more.The Afghan Government offered to extend the three-day ceasefire, but the offer was refused by Taliban leadership.
Access all of The Cipher Brief’s national security-focused expert insight by becoming a Cipher Brief Subscriber+ Member.
Sign UpLog In
Related Articles
EXPERT INTERVIEW — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has arrived in the U.S., bringing with him what he calls a “plan for victory” to present to President[…]More

DEEP DIVE — Few Americans have ever heard of Unit 29155 or 161 Center. For those who have, the names evoke fear and loathing.    Access[…]More

SUBSCRIBER + INTERVIEW – We say this often, but it really is a pivotal moment in Russia’s war against Ukraine. While Russian troops make small[…]More

DEEP DIVE — Ismael “El Mayo” Zambada, a co-founder and leader of Mexico’s notorious Sinaloa Cartel, has entered a not guilty plea to 17 drug trafficking[…]More

EXPERT INTERVIEW — Even by the standards of Mideast intrigue and covert operations, what happened Tuesday afternoon in Lebanon was startling: for roughly an hour, beginning[…]More

EXCLUSIVE REPORTING — It’s become the premier conference on the war in Ukraine, and this year it had the feel of a political or even[…]More

Trending

YouTubeLinkedInXFacebookInstagram
For general inquiries please email[email protected]
For general inquiries please email[email protected]YouTubeLinkedInXFacebookInstagram
Search

Title: No title found


Title: Three ISIS militants killed, 1 wounded in US drone strike in Afghanistan | Indiablooms - First Portal on Digital News Management
Afghanistan, Feb 22 (IBNS) : At least three militants affiliated with the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) terrorist group were killed in a US drone strike in eastern Nangarhar province of Afghanistan.
Local Khaama Press quoted Afghan military sourlces as saying that the atest drone strike was carried out in the vicinity of Deh Bala district.
According to the Silab Corps, at least one ISIS militant was also wounded in the airstrike that was carried out on a ISIS hideout in Langari area.
The anti-government armed militant and terrorist groups including the ISIS insurgents have not commented regarding the report so far.
Nangarhar is among the relatively calm provinces in the East but the terrorist and anti-government armed militant groups have started their operations in some of its remote districts during the recent years.
However, the counter-terrorism operations by the Afghan national defense and security forces as well as airstrikes on ISIS hideouts and other terror groups are underway in this province.
This comes as at least one ISIS militant was killed in a similar airstrike in Achin district earlier this week.
IBNS is not driven by any ism- not wokeism, not racism, not skewed secularism, not hyper right-wing or left liberal ideals, nor by any hardline religious beliefs or hyper nationalism. We want to serve you good old objective news, as they are. We do not judge or preach. We let people decide for themselves. We only try to present factual and well-sourced news.

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: ISIS attack repulsed in North of Afghanistan, 9 militants killed, 13 wounded | Indiablooms - First Portal on Digital News Management
Afghanistan, Feb 27 (IBNS) : A major attack by the militants affiliated with the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria /ISIS) terrorist group was repulsed in northern Jawzjan province of Afghanistan, leaving 22 militants dead or wounded.
Local Khaama Press quoted the  Afghan National Army as saying that a large group of ISIS militants launched a large scale attack in Darzad district but their attack was repulsed by the security forces.
The source further added that nine militants were killed and thirteen others were wounded after the Afghan forces responded to the militants attack.
According to Shaheen Corps, the attack was launched on security posts of the Afghan National defense and security forces but did not elaborate further if the Afghan forces suffered any casualty or not.
The anti-government armed militant and terrorist groups have not commented regarding the report so far.
IBNS is not driven by any ism- not wokeism, not racism, not skewed secularism, not hyper right-wing or left liberal ideals, nor by any hardline religious beliefs or hyper nationalism. We want to serve you good old objective news, as they are. We do not judge or preach. We let people decide for themselves. We only try to present factual and well-sourced news.

Title: ISIS attack repulsed in North of Afghanistan, 9 militants killed, 13 wounded | Indiablooms - First Portal on Digital News Management
Afghanistan, Feb 27 (IBNS) : A major attack by the militants affiliated with the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria /ISIS) terrorist group was repulsed in northern Jawzjan province of Afghanistan, leaving 22 militants dead or wounded.
Local Khaama Press quoted the  Afghan National Army as saying that a large group of ISIS militants launched a large scale attack in Darzad district but their attack was repulsed by the security forces.
The source further added that nine militants were killed and thirteen others were wounded after the Afghan forces responded to the militants attack.
According to Shaheen Corps, the attack was launched on security posts of the Afghan National defense and security forces but did not elaborate further if the Afghan forces suffered any casualty or not.
The anti-government armed militant and terrorist groups have not commented regarding the report so far.
IBNS is not driven by any ism- not wokeism, not racism, not skewed secularism, not hyper right-wing or left liberal ideals, nor by any hardline religious beliefs or hyper nationalism. We want to serve you good old objective news, as they are. We do not judge or preach. We let people decide for themselves. We only try to present factual and well-sourced news.

Title: No title found


Title:  ANSF performance 2015 onwards - Page 3
View Tag Cloud
Forum Rules

Title: 
            Adding Afghanistan to China’s OBOR is a tricky gambit
          
US
Despite geopolitical uncertainty, Beijing is set to add the landlocked country to its billion-dollar route
COMMENTS
Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive.
For more information, please see ourComments FAQ
Kyle Walker reportedly confronted Michael Oliver over Arsenal's controversial equalizer, during tunnel exchange.
Mercury Morris, a key player in the Miami Dolphins' undefeated 1972 Super Bowl team, has died at the age of 77.
Arsenal fans expressed frustration with referee Michael Oliver after Leandro Trossard was sent off for.
Daniel Ricciardo admits the Singapore GP could be his last F1 race amid speculation of Red Bull replacing him
Govt eyes Rs450b in tax via digital tracking
Rice exporters on edge as India lifts restrictions
Real estate potential stands at $2.11tr
Fed rate cut boosts Pakistan's prospects
Bagnaia shines with Emilia-Romagna sprint win
Provincial coordination urged for SME growth
Need for a new strategy and positive approach on Bangladesh
Ukraine and Gaza: order, not peace, needed to end hostility
Chief Justice Syed Mansoor Ali Shah
Subverting justice
Booby Trapped for a Wider Conflict
The house always wins
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
redistributed or derived from. Unless otherwise stated, all content is
copyrighted © 2024 The Express Tribune.

Title: Pakistan slipping out of US influence, say intelligence agencies - World - DAWN.COM
WASHINGTON: Seventeen US intelligence agencies have warned Congress that Pakistan will continue to slip out of America’s influence and into China’s orbit in 2019, and will become a threat to Washington’s interests in the South Asian region.
The review is part of an annual report that Director of US National Intelligence Daniel R. Coats presented to the Senate Intelligence Committee on Tuesday, underlining worldwide threat assessment of the American intelligence community.
The 17 agencies that jointly produced this report include Central Intelligence Agency, Defence Intelligence Agency, Federal Bureau of Investigation and National Security Agency.
Pakistan
In their report on Pakistan, the agencies warned that the country will continue to threaten US interests by “deploying new nuclear weapons capabilities, maintaining its ties to militants, restricting counterterrorism cooperation, and drawing closer to China”.
The report claimed that Islamabad-backed militant groups will continue to take advantage of their alleged safe haven in Pakistan to “plan and conduct attacks in India and Afghanistan, including against US interests”.
The agencies also warned Pakistan’s perception of its “eroding position relative to India, reinforced by endemic economic weakness and domestic security issues, almost certainly will exacerbate long-held fears of isolation and drive Islamabad’s pursuit of actions that run counter to US goals for the region”.
In a brief assessment of Islamabad’s nuclear programme, US intelligence agencies informed Congress that Pakistan continues to produce nuclear weapons and develop new types, including short-range tactical weapons, sea-based cruise missiles, air-launched cruise missiles, and longer-range ballistic missiles.
“These new types of nuclear weapons will introduce new risks for escalation dynamics and security in the region,” the report added.
India-Pakistan Tension
US agencies also expect relations between India and Pakistan to remain tense, with continued violence on the Line of Control and “the risk of escalation if there is another high-profile terrorist attack in India or an uptick in violence on the Line of Control”.
India-China Tension
The agencies informed Congress that in 2019, relations between India and China will remain tense and will possibly deteriorate further, despite the negotiated settlement to their three-month border standoff in August.
This “elevates the risk of unintentional escalation”, the report added.
Afghanistan
The US intelligence community expects the overall situation in Afghanistan to “deteriorate modestly” this year in the face of persistent political instability, sustained attacks by the Taliban-led insurgency, unsteady Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) performance, and chronic financial shortfalls.
The agencies warned that the National Unity government in Kabul “probably will struggle” to hold long-delayed parliamentary elections, currently scheduled for July 2018, and to prepare for a presidential election in 2019.
“The ANSF probably will maintain control of most major population centres with coalition force support, but the intensity and geographic scope of Taliban activities will put those centres under continued strain,” the agencies assessed.
The agencies believe that Afghanistan’s economic growth will stagnate at around 2.5 per cent per year, and Kabul will remain reliant on international donors for the great majority of its funding well beyond 2018.
Russia
US intelligence agencies see Russia as bringing pressure on Central Asia’s leaders to reduce engagement with Washington and support Russian-led economic and security initiatives, and believe that “concerns about [the militant Islamic State group] in Afghanistan will push Moscow to strengthen its security posture in the region”.
Published in Dawn, February 15th, 2018
Compunode.com Pvt. Ltd. (www.compunode.com).Designed forDawn.
Copyright © 2024, Dawn
NewsKit Publishing Platform

Title: Pakistan slipping out of US influence, say intelligence agencies - World - DAWN.COM
WASHINGTON: Seventeen US intelligence agencies have warned Congress that Pakistan will continue to slip out of America’s influence and into China’s orbit in 2019, and will become a threat to Washington’s interests in the South Asian region.
The review is part of an annual report that Director of US National Intelligence Daniel R. Coats presented to the Senate Intelligence Committee on Tuesday, underlining worldwide threat assessment of the American intelligence community.
The 17 agencies that jointly produced this report include Central Intelligence Agency, Defence Intelligence Agency, Federal Bureau of Investigation and National Security Agency.
Pakistan
In their report on Pakistan, the agencies warned that the country will continue to threaten US interests by “deploying new nuclear weapons capabilities, maintaining its ties to militants, restricting counterterrorism cooperation, and drawing closer to China”.
The report claimed that Islamabad-backed militant groups will continue to take advantage of their alleged safe haven in Pakistan to “plan and conduct attacks in India and Afghanistan, including against US interests”.
The agencies also warned Pakistan’s perception of its “eroding position relative to India, reinforced by endemic economic weakness and domestic security issues, almost certainly will exacerbate long-held fears of isolation and drive Islamabad’s pursuit of actions that run counter to US goals for the region”.
In a brief assessment of Islamabad’s nuclear programme, US intelligence agencies informed Congress that Pakistan continues to produce nuclear weapons and develop new types, including short-range tactical weapons, sea-based cruise missiles, air-launched cruise missiles, and longer-range ballistic missiles.
“These new types of nuclear weapons will introduce new risks for escalation dynamics and security in the region,” the report added.
India-Pakistan Tension
US agencies also expect relations between India and Pakistan to remain tense, with continued violence on the Line of Control and “the risk of escalation if there is another high-profile terrorist attack in India or an uptick in violence on the Line of Control”.
India-China Tension
The agencies informed Congress that in 2019, relations between India and China will remain tense and will possibly deteriorate further, despite the negotiated settlement to their three-month border standoff in August.
This “elevates the risk of unintentional escalation”, the report added.
Afghanistan
The US intelligence community expects the overall situation in Afghanistan to “deteriorate modestly” this year in the face of persistent political instability, sustained attacks by the Taliban-led insurgency, unsteady Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) performance, and chronic financial shortfalls.
The agencies warned that the National Unity government in Kabul “probably will struggle” to hold long-delayed parliamentary elections, currently scheduled for July 2018, and to prepare for a presidential election in 2019.
“The ANSF probably will maintain control of most major population centres with coalition force support, but the intensity and geographic scope of Taliban activities will put those centres under continued strain,” the agencies assessed.
The agencies believe that Afghanistan’s economic growth will stagnate at around 2.5 per cent per year, and Kabul will remain reliant on international donors for the great majority of its funding well beyond 2018.
Russia
US intelligence agencies see Russia as bringing pressure on Central Asia’s leaders to reduce engagement with Washington and support Russian-led economic and security initiatives, and believe that “concerns about [the militant Islamic State group] in Afghanistan will push Moscow to strengthen its security posture in the region”.
Published in Dawn, February 15th, 2018
Compunode.com Pvt. Ltd. (www.compunode.com).Designed forDawn.
Copyright © 2024, Dawn
NewsKit Publishing Platform

Title: Overall situation in Afghanistan to deteriorate: Coats – Pajhwok Afghan News
Username or Email
Password
Remember me
Lost your password?

Don't you have an account with Pajhwok Afghan News?
Click here to subscribe.
WASHINGTON (Pajhwok): The overall situation inAfghanistan-supported terrorist groups would continue to attacks inside Afghanistan . . .

Title: Rohingya issue may escalate terrorists' recruitment: US - Times of India
8 morning habits that can help sharpen memory
The New Seven Wonders of the World
10 easy dishes made with Murmura (Puffed Rice)
8 lesser-known parks in India to spot tigers
Samantha to Malavika Mohanan: South actresses make a striking impression in black
Janmashtami 2024: How to make Instant Makhan without using malai in just 2 minutes
10 longest living pet dog breeds in the world
​10 animals that will disappear by 2030​
8 golden rules for a happy and fulfilling life
11 animals that talk with their expressive eyes

Title: Not Taliban but Pakistan Military, Nukes and China factor are real cause of concern for US: Report
WASHINGTON: The relations between Pakistan and United States are deteriorating with every passing day and now the intelligence reports by theUSagencies have further highlighted the fact.
However astonishingly the issue of the Taliban militants may be just one point but there are more serious concerns ofUSagencies for Pakistan.
Drawing closer to China, Military Power and the Nuclear Arsenals are other important points for the cause of concern forUS.
Pakistan Navy Warships held joint military drill with UAE Navy
SeventeenUSintelligence agencies have warned Congress that Pakistan will continue to slip out of America’s influence and into China’s orbit in 2019, and will become a threat to Washington’s interests in the South Asian region.
The review is part of an annual report that Director ofUSNational Intelligence Daniel R. Coats presented to the Senate Intelligence Committee on Tuesday, underlining worldwide threat assessment of the American intelligence community.
The 17 agencies that jointly produced this report include Central Intelligence Agency, Defence Intelligence Agency, Federal Bureau of Investigation and National Security Agency.
PTI Chairman Imran Khan to face Military Trial
In their report on Pakistan, the agencies warned that the country will continue to threatenUSinterests by “deploying new nuclear weapons capabilities, maintaining its ties to militants, restricting counterterrorism cooperation, and drawing closer to China”.
The report claimed that Islamabad-backed militant groups will continue to take advantage of their alleged safe haven in Pakistan to “plan and conduct attacks in India and Afghanistan, including againstUSinterests”.
In a brief assessment of Islamabad’s nuclear programme,USintelligence agencies informed Congress that Pakistan continues to produce nuclear weapons and develop new types, including short-range tactical weapons, sea-based cruise missiles, air-launched cruise missiles, and longer-range ballistic missiles.
Imran Khan to be court martialed along with former ISI Chief Faiz Hameed?
“These new types of nuclear weapons will introduce new risks for escalation dynamics and security in the region,” the report added.
USagencies also expect relations between India and Pakistan to remain tense, with continued violence on the Line of Control and “the risk of escalation if there is another high-profile terrorist attack in India or an uptick in violence on the Line of Control”.
The agencies informed Congress that in 2019, relations between India and China will remain tense and will possibly deteriorate further, despite the negotiated settlement to their three-month border standoff in August.
This “elevates the risk of unintentional escalation”, the report added.
TheUSintelligence community expects the overall situation in Afghanistan to “deteriorate modestly” this year in the face of persistent political instability, sustained attacks by the Taliban-led insurgency, unsteady Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) performance, and chronic financial shortfalls.
The agencies warned that the National Unity government in Kabul “probably will struggle” to hold long-delayed parliamentary elections, currently scheduled for July 2018, and to prepare for a presidential election in 2019.
“The ANSF probably will maintain control of most major population centres with coalition force support, but the intensity and geographic scope of Taliban activities will put those centres under continued strain,” the agencies assessed.
The agencies believe that Afghanistan’s economic growth will stagnate at around 2.5 per cent per year, and Kabul will remain reliant on international donors for the great majority of its funding well beyond 2018.

Title: 3 Haqqani network militants killed in US drone attack in Afghanistan
MIRANSHAH: Three militants belonging to the Haqqani network were killed and several others were reportedly wounded in a US drone strike in Gorek area of Afghanistan, official sources said on Thursday.The sources said that the drone fired two missiles and struck a house near Pakistan’s border with Afghanistan.The sources said the three militants who lost their lives were affiliated with Haqqani network, which is a faction of the Afghan Taliban group. The sources added that several other militants sustained injuries in the attack.Earlier, there was confusion if the drone fired missiles inside Pakistan or Afghanistan. Later, local Pakistani officials claimed the attack had taken place in Afghanistan close to the Pak-Afghan border.
The sources said that the drone fired two missiles and struck a house near Pakistan’s border with Afghanistan.The sources said the three militants who lost their lives were affiliated with Haqqani network, which is a faction of the Afghan Taliban group. The sources added that several other militants sustained injuries in the attack.Earlier, there was confusion if the drone fired missiles inside Pakistan or Afghanistan. Later, local Pakistani officials claimed the attack had taken place in Afghanistan close to the Pak-Afghan border.
The sources said the three militants who lost their lives were affiliated with Haqqani network, which is a faction of the Afghan Taliban group. The sources added that several other militants sustained injuries in the attack.Earlier, there was confusion if the drone fired missiles inside Pakistan or Afghanistan. Later, local Pakistani officials claimed the attack had taken place in Afghanistan close to the Pak-Afghan border.
Earlier, there was confusion if the drone fired missiles inside Pakistan or Afghanistan. Later, local Pakistani officials claimed the attack had taken place in Afghanistan close to the Pak-Afghan border.
FIR lodged by Hadyara Station House Officer Hamas Hameed includes sections of terrorism and attempted murder
Current Japanese Constitution came into effect on May 3, 1947
KP would have a serious and negative impact on the rest of the country and if the provincial government did not...
Akbar S Babar said verdict relied heavily on self-serving concept of ‘complete justice’ to justify relief provided...
Convoy of more than 10 foreign ambassadors was passing through picturesque town of Malam Jabba in Swat district when...
Daniyal Chaudhary said that Zionist lobbies believe that Imran Khan and his party could represent Israel in Islamic...
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: Designation of Taliban and Haqqani Network Operatives
Print
The U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control designated under Executive Order 13224, four members of the Taliban and two from the Haqqani network.
No media source currently available
The United States is committed to supporting Afghanistan’s government in its efforts to achieve peace, security, and prosperity for their country. As part of this support, we are working to undermine the Taliban and the Haqqani network terrorist organizations.
One of the best ways to hinder any terrorist group’s activities is to disrupt the activities of its high-level operatives. To this end, the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, designated under Executive Order 13224, four members of the Taliban and two from the Haqqani network.
Abdul Samad Sani is involved in financing the Taliban, and procuring supplies for them. In recent years, he has on numerous occasions raised or collected funds for the Taliban, purchased supplies and ammunition for Taliban commanders and fighters engaged in combat in Afghanistan, and appointed special representatives to serve as Taliban fundraisers abroad.
Abdul Qadeer Basir Abdul Baseer, a member of the Taliban Finance Commission, has provided Taliban commanders with tens of thousands of dollars to fund their operations, and disbursed funds directly to Taliban shadow governors.
Hafiz Mohammed Popalzai is one of four individuals responsible for all Taliban financing, including foreign financing and money from the narcotics trade. He also invests the Taliban’s money.
Maulawi Inayatullah has operated as the overall Taliban member responsible for attacks against Afghan and Coalition Forces in Kabul, and provided financial support and other materials for the attack planners.
Faqir Muhammad has for many years been a major fundraiser for the Haqqani Network.
Gula Khan Hamidi facilitated communication between a Haqqani network official and a Haqqani network contact in Syria. He also facilitated the transfer of funds from the Haqqani network to Haqqani-affiliated extremists.
“We are targeting six individuals related to the Taliban or Haqqani Network who have been involved in attacks on Coalition troops, smuggling of individuals, or financing these terrorist groups,” said Sigal Mandelker, Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence. “This action supports the President’s South Asia Strategy by disrupting these terrorist organizations and publically exposing individuals who facilitate their activities. The Pakistani government must work with us to deny the Taliban and the Haqqani Network sanctuary and to aggressively target their terrorist fundraising.”


Title: Three Haqqani network militants killed in US drone attack in Afghanistan
MIRANSHAH: Three militants belonging to the Haqqani network were killed and several others were reportedly wounded in a US drone strike in the Gorek area of Afghanistan, official sources said on Thursday.The sources said that the drone fired two missiles and struck a house near Pakistan’s border with Afghanistan. The sources said the three militants who lost their lives were affiliated with the Haqqani network, which is a faction of the Afghan Taliban group. The sources added that several other militants sustained injuries in the attack.Earlier, there was confusion if the drone had fired missiles inside Pakistan or Afghanistan. Later, local Pakistani officials claimed the attack had taken place in Afghanistan close to the Pak-Afghan border.
The sources said that the drone fired two missiles and struck a house near Pakistan’s border with Afghanistan. The sources said the three militants who lost their lives were affiliated with the Haqqani network, which is a faction of the Afghan Taliban group. The sources added that several other militants sustained injuries in the attack.Earlier, there was confusion if the drone had fired missiles inside Pakistan or Afghanistan. Later, local Pakistani officials claimed the attack had taken place in Afghanistan close to the Pak-Afghan border.
Earlier, there was confusion if the drone had fired missiles inside Pakistan or Afghanistan. Later, local Pakistani officials claimed the attack had taken place in Afghanistan close to the Pak-Afghan border.
Some prisoners struggled to return to civilian life after their release
Iran shares a more than 900-kilometre border with Afghanistan
Economic Coordination Committee of Pakistan had already approved the export, facilitating the deal
Management of the institution has laid off 8 officers and employees to reduce administrative expenses
Both sides, it was learnt, were using heavy and automatic weapons during the skirmishes
Establishment Division has issued notification of the extension of suspension
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: Three Haqqani militants killed in US drone attack in Afghanistan
MIRAMSHAH: Three militants belonging to the Haqqani network were killed and several others were reportedly wounded in a US drone strike in Gorek area of Afghanistan, official sources said on Thursday. The sources said that the drone fired two missiles and struck a house near Pakistan’s border with Afghanistan. The sources said the three militants who lost their lives were affiliated with Haqqani network, which is a faction of the Afghan Taliban group. The sources added that several other militants sustained injuries in the attack. Earlier, there was confusion if the drone fired missiles inside Pakistan or Afghanistan. Later, local Pakistani officials claimed the attack had taken place in Afghanistan close to the Pak-Afghan border.
Some prisoners struggled to return to civilian life after their release
Iran shares a more than 900-kilometre border with Afghanistan
Economic Coordination Committee of Pakistan had already approved the export, facilitating the deal
Management of the institution has laid off 8 officers and employees to reduce administrative expenses
Both sides, it was learnt, were using heavy and automatic weapons during the skirmishes
Establishment Division has issued notification of the extension of suspension
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: Don’t capture or kill but push militants to us, US asks Pakistan
WASHINGTON: Pakistan need not kill or capture militants such as members of the Haqqani network that use its territory to launch attacks in Afghanistan but could push them across the border instead, a senior US official said on Friday.Evicting the militants would put them at risk of attack from Afghan and US forces trying to keep Afghanistan from becoming a launching pad for strikes on the West more than 16 years after the Sept 11, 2001 attacks on New York and Washington.The United States is pressuring Pakistan to cease providing sanctuary - which it denies giving - to Islamist militants unleashing chaos in neighbouring Afghanistan. On Jan 4, Washington said it would suspend some security aid to Islamabad to get it to end support for the Afghan Taliban and allied Haqqani network whose attacks in Afghanistan have killed US, Afghan and other forces.
Evicting the militants would put them at risk of attack from Afghan and US forces trying to keep Afghanistan from becoming a launching pad for strikes on the West more than 16 years after the Sept 11, 2001 attacks on New York and Washington.The United States is pressuring Pakistan to cease providing sanctuary - which it denies giving - to Islamist militants unleashing chaos in neighbouring Afghanistan. On Jan 4, Washington said it would suspend some security aid to Islamabad to get it to end support for the Afghan Taliban and allied Haqqani network whose attacks in Afghanistan have killed US, Afghan and other forces.
The United States is pressuring Pakistan to cease providing sanctuary - which it denies giving - to Islamist militants unleashing chaos in neighbouring Afghanistan. On Jan 4, Washington said it would suspend some security aid to Islamabad to get it to end support for the Afghan Taliban and allied Haqqani network whose attacks in Afghanistan have killed US, Afghan and other forces.
Some prisoners struggled to return to civilian life after their release
Iran shares a more than 900-kilometre border with Afghanistan
Economic Coordination Committee of Pakistan had already approved the export, facilitating the deal
Management of the institution has laid off 8 officers and employees to reduce administrative expenses
Both sides, it was learnt, were using heavy and automatic weapons during the skirmishes
Establishment Division has issued notification of the extension of suspension
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: haqqani network: US asks Pakistan to act against Haqqani network, other terror groups - The Economic Times
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Java Programming with ChatGPT: Learn using Generative AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Basics of Generative AI : Unveiling Tomorrow's Innovations
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Generative AI for Dynamic Java Web Applications with ChatGPT
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Mastering C++ Fundamentals with Generative AI: A Hands-On
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Master in Python Language Quickly Using the ChatGPT Open AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Zero to Hero in Microsoft Excel: Complete Excel guide 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Astrology
Vastu Shastra Course
By - Sachenkumar Rai, Vastu Shashtri
Data Science
SQL for Data Science along with Data Analytics and Data Visualization
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Web Development
A Comprehensive ASP.NET Core MVC 6 Project Guide for 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Mastering Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and 365
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Marketing
Digital marketing - Wordpress Website Development
By - Shraddha Somani, Digital Marketing Trainer, Consultant, Strategiest and Subject Matter expert
Web Development
Mastering Full Stack Development: From Frontend to Backend Excellence
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Finance
Financial Literacy i.e Lets Crack the Billionaire Code
By - CA Rahul Gupta, CA with 10+ years of domain experience, trainer
Leadership
Business Storytelling Masterclass
By - Ameen Haque, Founder of Storywallahs
Marketing
Future of Marketing & Branding Masterclass
By - Dr. David Aaker, Professor at Haas School of Business
HR
Human Potential and the Future of Employment
By - Lynda Gratton, Co-chair of the World Economic Forum Council on Work, Wages and Job Creation, Professor of Management Practice
Strategy
ESG and Business Sustainability Strategy
By - Vipul Arora, Partner, ESG & Climate Solutions at Sattva Consulting Author I Speaker I Thought Leader
Finance
Financial Reporting and Analytics
By - Dr. C.P. Gupta, Professor: Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi
(Catch all theBusiness News,Breaking News,Budget 2024Events andLatest NewsUpdates onThe Economic Times.)
Subscribe toThe Economic Times Primeand read theET ePaperonline.
(Catch all theBusiness News,Breaking News,Budget 2024Events andLatest NewsUpdates onThe Economic Times.)
Subscribe toThe Economic Times Primeand read theET ePaperonline.

Flyers are denied free airport lounge access. The behind the scenes that led to it.
In the new world trade order, is narrative shifting from profits to wages?
Alcobev firms undergo a hangover in Q1 FY25 despite premium push
8 things India should know about Pakistan’s new spy chief
A 98% haircut for SUUTI in Modern Syntex resolution plan raises eyebrows
Can BookMyShow’s Coldplay mess be Zomato’s big ticket opportunity?
US backs India, Japan & Germany for UNSC permanent seats
'Don’t make a mockery of our sentiments...'
A bird may sing in Kabul, but a girl may not: Meryl Streep
PM Modi caps his US trip with a meeting with Zelenskyy
Israel targets Hezbollah missiles buried in civilian buildings
MUDA scam case: K'taka HC's big jolt to CM Sidda
Iran seeks a world free of nuclear weapons: Pezeshkian
K'taka mandates Urdu proficiency for Anganwadi teachers' posts
Hugs, diplomacy, Bonhomie! Highlights from PM Modi’s US visit
Iron Dome Defends Israel from Hezbollah Rockets
Hot on Web
In Case you missed it
Top Searched Companies
Top Calculators
Top Commodities
Top Slideshow
Top Prime Articles
Private Companies
Top Story Listing
Top Definitions
Top Market Pages
Latest News
Follow us on:
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Reason for reporting:
Your Reason has been Reported to the admin.
Log In/Connect with:
Will be displayed
Will not be displayed
Will be displayed
Stories you might be interested in

Title: Business News Today: Read Latest Business news, India Business News Live, Share Market & Economy News | The Economic Times
Get only relevant updates on WhatsApp. No Spam.
Learn from the top business gurus.
September 23
India's corporate travel sector, valued at over USD 10.6 billion, is projected to grow at a 10.1% CAGR to USD 20.8 billion by FY30. This gro...
India's electric two-wheeler market is booming, but exports remain minimal. Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari sees potential for India ...
Monthly instalment schemes by jewellers are sustaining gold demand despite high prices. Tanishq, Reliance Jewels, and Senco Gold have seen s...
Vodafone Idea has been directed to pay Rs 50,000 in compensation to a senior citizen for mental harassment due to abrupt disconnection of hi...
Quick commerce is driving growth in grocery shopping, with 31% of Indian shoppers using it for core needs and 39% for top-ups, according to ...
The expo and the conference combined represent the most sought-after event of the Oil & Gas industry that is held every year to bring the in...
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Java Programming with ChatGPT: Learn using Generative AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Basics of Generative AI : Unveiling Tomorrow's Innovations
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Generative AI for Dynamic Java Web Applications with ChatGPT
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Mastering C++ Fundamentals with Generative AI: A Hands-On
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Master in Python Language Quickly Using the ChatGPT Open AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Zero to Hero in Microsoft Excel: Complete Excel guide 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Stock Trading
Market 101: An Insight into Trendlines and Momentum
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Markets 102: Mastering Sentiment Indicators for Swing and Positional Trading
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Market 103: Mastering Trends with RMI and Techno-Funda Insights
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Market 104: Options Trading: Kickstart Your F&O Adventure
By - Saketh R, Founder- QuickAlpha, Full Time Options Trader
Astrology
Vastu Shastra Course
By - Sachenkumar Rai, Vastu Shashtri
Data Science
SQL for Data Science along with Data Analytics and Data Visualization
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Web Development
A Comprehensive ASP.NET Core MVC 6 Project Guide for 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Stock Trading
ROC Made Easy: Master Course for ROC Stock Indicator
By - Souradeep Dey, Equity and Commodity Trader, Trainer
Stock Trading
RSI Made Easy: RSI Trading Course
By - Souradeep Dey, Equity and Commodity Trader, Trainer
Stock Trading
Technical Analysis for Everyone - Technical Analysis Course
By - Abhijit Paul, Technical Research Head, Fund Manager- ICICI Securities
Office Productivity
Mastering Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and 365
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Marketing
Digital marketing - Wordpress Website Development
By - Shraddha Somani, Digital Marketing Trainer, Consultant, Strategiest and Subject Matter expert
Web Development
Mastering Full Stack Development: From Frontend to Backend Excellence
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Finance
Financial Literacy i.e Lets Crack the Billionaire Code
By - CA Rahul Gupta, CA with 10+ years of domain experience, trainer
Stock Trading
Introduction to Technical Analysis & Candlestick Theory
By - Dinesh Nagpal, Full Time Trader, Ichimoku & Trading Psychology Expert
Leadership
Business Storytelling Masterclass
By - Ameen Haque, Founder of Storywallahs
Marketing
Future of Marketing & Branding Masterclass
By - Dr. David Aaker, Professor at Haas School of Business
HR
Human Potential and the Future of Employment
By - Lynda Gratton, Co-chair of the World Economic Forum Council on Work, Wages and Job Creation, Professor of Management Practice
Strategy
ESG and Business Sustainability Strategy
By - Vipul Arora, Partner, ESG & Climate Solutions at Sattva Consulting Author I Speaker I Thought Leader
Stock Trading
Options Trading Course For Beginners
By - Chetan Panchamia, Options Trader
Finance
Financial Reporting and Analytics
By - Dr. C.P. Gupta, Professor: Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi
Stock Trading
Options Scalping Made Easy
By - Sivakumar Jayachandran, Ace Scalper
Stock Trading
Futures Trading Made Easy: Future & Options Trading Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Markets Made Easy
By - elearnmarkets, Financial Education by StockEdge
Stock Trading
Renko Chart Patterns Made Easy
By - Kaushik Akiwatkar, Derivative Trader and Investor
Stock Trading
Options Trading Made Easy: Options Trading Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Investing Made Easy: Beginner's Stock Market Investment Course
By - elearnmarkets, Financial Education by StockEdge
Stock Trading
Macroeconomics Made Easy: Online Certification Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Valuation Made Easy
By - Rounak Gouti, Investment commentary writer
Tuesday, 24 Sep, 2024
Vodafone Idea (Vi) has said it’s now up to the government to come up with a mechanism to offer financial relief to the company, after the Supreme Court’s recent rejection of the telco’s curative petition seeking a re-computation of its adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues.
India’s aspiration to be a $7-trillion economy by the end of the decade can be achieved as a “strong” Prime Minister Narendra Modi rolls out the digital and physical infrastructure that’s drawing multinationals involved in manufacturing advanced products and services, said Jamie Dimon, chairman and CEO, JPMorgan.
This is India’s moment and the country should seize it, Nvidia chief executive Jensen Huang said after a roundtable in New York between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and leading technology industry CEOs. Sundar Pichai, the CEO of Google and its parent Alphabet, said the Prime Minister has a clear vision of the opportunity that artificial intelligence will create, and is challenging top companies to do more in India.
Securing a US student visa is just the beginning for international students. Maintaining it is crucial, as violations like prolonged absence, unauthorized transfer, or fraudulent activities can lead to revocation. Immediate steps include understanding the reason, contacting university services, reapplying or appealing, and seeking legal assistance if necessary.
High net worth Indians are using corporate credit cards for personal expenses during overseas travels to avoid breaching the $250,000 annual limit on foreign remittance. The government may soon implement rules to include international credit card spends under this limit, but distinguishing personal from business expenses remains challenging.
Prodigy Finance has announced a $5,000 scholarship for students pursuing higher education abroad for the Spring 2025 intake. Applications open in September 2024 and close on September 30, 2024. Eligible candidates must be accepted into a Prodigy Finance-supported program and demonstrate academic excellence and community commitment.
Rajinikanth to Mahesh Babu: South Stars Steal The Spotlight at Anant Ambani's Wedding
Explore Goa In The Rains: 10 Must-Do Activities, Places To Visit
Sonakshi Sinha wedding photos out: Actress marries Zaheer Iqbal in civil ceremony
How Four Words from Chiranjeevi Saved Pawan Kalyan's Life
​Mushrooms Can Lower Risk Of A Cancer Diagnosis​​​
What To Eat, What To Avoid During Pregnancy? Follow This ICMR Guide
Want To Live Longer? Watch Your Salt Intake, Advises ICMR
How vegans can get enough protein? What ICMR says
Balakrishna's 5 Controversies. Latest: Actress Anjali Incident
Why These Two Rs 10 Notes Fetched Over Rs 12 Lakhs At Auction?
Magnificent Mango: 5 Beauty Secrets Of This Summer Delight
​Radhika Merchant’s Space Suit Designer For Ambani Pre-Wedding Bash, Has Worked With Jennifer Lopez & Karlie Kloss!​
​Flax Seeds Can Aid In Weight Loss, Improve Gut Heath: Here’s The Best Time To Consume Them​
​NASA Finds 126 Alien Planets! Does This Mean There’s Extraterrestrial Life?​
You Can Enjoy This 5-Day Cruise For Just Rs 5,000. Thanks To Indian Govt
Scandals that destroyed Bollywood celebs' career
​From Vedavid To Vamika, 6 Bollywood Babies With Unique Names​
Blockout 2024: From Taylor Swift To Alia Bhatt, Celebs Are Being Boycotted Online
Gainers & Losers: Vedanta, IEX among 7 stocks in limelight on Tuesday
SIPs in 5 small cap mutual funds multiplied wealth by 100x in 15 years
9 famous street food to try when in Gujarat
8 yoga poses to reduce stubborn waist fat
8 health benefits of having ghee coffee in the morning
9 excellent immunity boosting food for kids
9 chia seeds benefits for skin and hair
These 4 F&O stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest
These 4 stocks closed above VWAP on September 23
These 3 stocks showed RSI Trending up on September 23
Bullish Momentum: These 3 stocks with White Marubozu Pattern on September 23
These 4 stocks closed below VWAP on September 23
At multi-year highs: These 6 stocks witnessed 5-year swing high breakouts
Positive Breakout: ACC among 4 stocks crossed their 200 DMAs
Chia Seeds: Miracle Superfood Or Overhyped Trend
Who Has Chris Martin Dated? A Look At Coldplay Singer's Famous Girlfriends
Gainers & Losers: Vodafone Idea, Indus Towers among 6 stocks in limelight on Monday
7 immunity boosting drinks for weather change
7 high-protein dishes made with chickpeas
7 house plants best suited for bathroom
7 effective morning exercises to lose weight
Gold price up more than 23% in one year; check latest price of gold
7 common mistakes you are doing to lose weight
7 health benefits of drinking haldi doodh everyday at night
7 homemade drinks to boost energy
Tech Mahindra among 3 stocks showing RSI trending up
Cochin Shipyard among 5 stocks with White Marubozu Pattern
These 5 F&O stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest
Finolex Industries and 3 other stocks close below VWAP
Vodafone Idea and 3 other stocks closed above VWAP
Check out these iconic Bonedi Bari Durga Puja in Kolkata
Why your EPF claim may get rejected: Here are 11 reasons
What DonaldTrump promised to accomplish on day one as president
Cancer patients: Tips to go through chemotherapy
Direct Tax Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme 2024: CBDT notifies these rules, forms from October 1, 2024
Oscars 2025: 'Laapataa Ladies' picked as India's entry; how Kiran Rao reacted, top film contenders and other details
India’s first Mpox clade 1 case in Kerala: Symptoms, treatment, risk factors, travel advices and other details
Want to visit the equator? Countries to consider and your budget guide from India
Top 5 flexi-cap funds with up to 28% returns in 3 yrs
Kamala Harris isn't alone! 5 Indian politicians who love to cook and eat
Hot on Web
In Case you missed it
Top Calculators
Top Prime Articles
Top Performing MF
Top Story Listing
Top Commodities
Top Definitions
Top Slideshow
Latest News
Follow us on:

Title: Haqqani: US asks Pakistan to act against Haqqani network, other terror groups - Times of India
8 morning habits that can help sharpen memory
The New Seven Wonders of the World
10 easy dishes made with Murmura (Puffed Rice)
8 lesser-known parks in India to spot tigers
Samantha to Malavika Mohanan: South actresses make a striking impression in black
Janmashtami 2024: How to make Instant Makhan without using malai in just 2 minutes
10 longest living pet dog breeds in the world
​10 animals that will disappear by 2030​
8 golden rules for a happy and fulfilling life
11 animals that talk with their expressive eyes