Title: Afghan Taliban’s Top Peace Negotiator: 'U.S. on the Verge of Defeat'
The Taliban’s chief negotiator in talks to end the more than 17-year-old war in Afghanistan recently declared the United States is “on the verge of defeat” and will soon withdraw willingly or by force, Voice of America (VOA) reported Monday.
Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai, the Taliban’spolitical chief, reportedly made theassertionsin an April 28 speech to an “internal gathering” in Qatar, two days before he led a jihadi delegation into a fresh round of talks with American interlocutors.
On Friday – a day after America’s top peace negotiator, Zalmay Khalilzad, and his team concluded a week-long round of discussions with the Taliban representatives in the Qatari capital of Dohawithouta breakthrough – social media outlets friendly to the terrorist group released a video of Stanekzai’s speech.
The Taliban negotiator praised what he described as the bravery of the Afghans who defeated past British and Soviet invasions of their country and continue to resist the current foreign military occupation, referring to the U.S.-NATO coalition currently training, assisting, and advising Afghan troops in battles against the terrorist group.
Stanekzai declared:
God has helped us defeat three superpowers in the last century. The third superpower that we are currently confronted with is also on the verge of defeat, inshallah [God willing]. You will soon hear they also will withdraw [from Afghanistan] either of their own accord or they will be forced out. …We pray to God they [U.S.] withdraw in a manner that results in peace and stability in Afghanistan, and an Islamic system or Sharia is established in Afghanistan, and there is no further bloodshed among Afghans.
VOA learned from Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid that the April 28 internal gathering was aimed at commemorating the day in 1992 when Afghan jihadis overthrew the communist regime in Kabul.
Stanekzai lambasted Afghan President Ashraf Ghani during his speech, comparing him and his allies to government leaders who supported Moscow during the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan in the 1980s that ultimately gave rise to the Taliban and al-Qaeda.
Over the weekend, former U.S. Defense Chief Robert Gateswarnedthat there is a “real risk” the Taliban will retake control of the country if American troops leave before the Afghan government is stable.
Ghani haswarnedthat the Afghan government and troops would collapse without U.S. support and assistance.
Conceding that a military victory isimpossibleat this juncture, U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration has intensified peace negotiations with the Taliban, fighting to establish a sharia-compliant Islamic emirate in the country. The war in Afghanistan has been at astalematefor years.
Trump administration officials made the reconciliation between Kabul and the Taliban the primary goal of itsstrategyto end the conflict. Taliban narco-jihadis, however, have refused to allow the Afghan government it considers an American puppet to participate in the negotiations.
The Taliban, which the U.S. governmentbelievescontrols or contests nearly half of Afghanistan, maintains that it will only engage Kabul after foreign forces withdraw from Afghanistan.
Although the Taliban wants foreign forces out of Afghanistan, they want to keep nation-building funds paid for by the American taxpayerflowinginto their country. Taliban jihadis, who have repeatedly rejected President Ghani’sofferof a ceasefire and official recognition as a political group, haveintensifiedtheir attacks amid the peace negotiations with the United States.
The war in Afghanistan has come at a tremendous blood and treasure cost to the United States of nearly$1 trillion, 2,285 American militarydeaths, and 20,452 injuries.
A reconciliation agreement could grant the Taliban the opportunity to return to office in Kabul. U.S. troops removed the Taliban regime from office in December 2001 for sheltering al-Qaeda before the September 11, 2001, attacks. The Taliban and al-Qaeda remainclose allies, according to the United Nations. Both continue to operate in Afghanistan.
So far, peace negotiations have yielded somedraftagreements, namely the withdrawal of U.S. troops in exchange for Taliban assurances that it will not allow international jihadi groups such as its ally al-Qaeda and enemy the Islamic State (ISIS/ISIL) from operating on Afghan soil.
The Taliban hasrejectedTrump administration proposals for a residual American counterterrorism force to remain in Afghanistan following a significant withdrawal to ensure the terrorist group keeps its promises.
Last week, Khalilzad noted on Twitter that the two sides aremaking“steady but slow progress on aspects of the framework for ending the Afghan war.” He pointed out, however, that the current pace of negotiations is insufficient when you consider that “so much conflict rages and innocent people die.”
“We need more and faster progress. Our proposal for all sides to reduce violence also remains on the table,” Khalilzad said.
Echoing other jihadi groups, the Taliban hasurgedMuslims to escalate attacks during the ongoing holy month of Ramadan.
Pleaselet us knowif you're having issues with commenting.




Copyright © 2024 Breitbart

Title: MSN


Title: MSN


Title: 
            Security calculations for durable Afghan peace
          
US
Any peace deal which ignores these intricacies and complexities may not last very long in Afghanistan
COMMENTS
Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive.
For more information, please see ourComments FAQ
Ryan Murphy responds to Erik Menendez's criticism of Netflix's 'Monsters: The Lyle and Erik Menendez Story’
This news follows reports that Kim is becoming increasingly worried about Kanye’s recent behavior.
Fans react as Meek Mill declares, 'I wanna hire an investigative team,' offering $100K to clear his name in Diddy case
TikToker Jacob Savage faces controversy after alleged explicit video of him cheating with ex Rachel Weaver goes viral.
Increasing Commercial Confidence through Meditation
Sweat it out
Understanding constitutional package: a logical approach
Pakistan-BD proximity and scepticism in India
TAPI progression and prospect of Pakistan-Iran gas pipeline
Mental health: unseen casualty of politics, media and bureaucracy
Increasing Commercial Confidence through Meditation
Future of higher education
TAPI progression and prospect of Pakistan-Iran gas pipeline
Understanding constitutional package: a logical approach
Pakistan-BD proximity and scepticism in India
Bharat and the idea of India
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
redistributed or derived from. Unless otherwise stated, all content is
copyrighted © 2024 The Express Tribune.

Title: India in Afghanistan After the Soviet Withdrawal – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
India’s tough experience in post-1989 Afghanistan could hold lessons for weathering a U.S. troop withdrawal.
A Soviet tank regimental commander gestures to Afghan leader Najibullah during ceremonial limited military withdrawal ceremonies in Shindand, Afghanistan on Oct. 25, 1986.
In 1989, Soviet forces, India’s ally in Afghanistan, made a full withdrawal from the country and left India in a precarious position. Thirty years down the line, India is now facing a similar situation — the possibility of a complete withdrawal of U.S. forces, under whose security umbrella India had built its presence in Afghanistan through largely developmental investment and soft power initiatives.
The Soviet intervention in Afghanistan earlier in 1979 had put India in a tough spot. While India was averse to the idea of a superpower meddling in the domestic affairs of a small independent country, New Delhi was equivocal in condemning the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. In theUN debatesduring an emergency special session, India in fact broke ranks with its nonalignment partners and openly supported the Soviet position. India’s strong relations with the Soviet Union and Cold War geopolitics, where the United States alongside India’s rival Pakistan was propping up the Afghan resistance, were instrumental in prodding India to take the Soviet side in Afghanistan.
Soviet Withdrawal and India-Najibullah Bonhomie
In the late 1980s, as the war simmered in Afghanistan, India looked to play a key role in mediating peace between various parties. It also wanted to postpone or slowdown the process of Soviet withdrawal before the country had stabilized. But with the situation being untenable, Mikhail Gorbachev ultimately ordered the Soviet troops to withdraw. Before the complete withdrawal, the Soviets installed Mohammed Najibullah, a member of the Parcham faction of the People’s Democratic Party of Afghanistan (PDPA) and former head of the dreaded KGB-influenced Afghan intelligence agency KhAD, as the head of the Kabul government. Moscow hoped the strongman would be able to reconcile with the recalcitrant rebel leaders and effect a peace settlement between the various Afghan factions. India was supportive of Najibullah, in whom New Delhi saw a strong Afghan leader who was wary of the growing Pakistani influence in Afghanistan. It is alleged that KhAD, through its contacts in Pashtun regions of Pakistan, helped increaseIndia’s covert profile.
Moreover, then-Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and Najibullah shared a close personal bond. The aftermath of Soviet withdrawal and the unsteady support coming from Moscow only strengthened India’s ties with Najibullah as their relations became more symbiotic.
However, Najibullah, as a former intelligence head of the infamous KhAD and a pro-Soviet figure, didn’t enjoy much popular support among the masses and in the absence of Soviet ground forces it was difficult, if not impossible, to push back the Mujahideen’s onslaught. India, showing tremendous commitment to Najibullah, threw its lot in with the pro-Soviet regime, but New Delhi didn’t have the wherewithal to singlehandedly safeguard the Najibullah government. Thus when Najibullah’s government fell, India was without any “friends” in Afghanistan – on the contrary, the Mujahideen government of Burhanuddin Rabbani and other war lords had a negative view of India, given its support for the pro-Soviet regime.
Reaching out to theMujahideens and the Rise of the Taliban
Pakistan, having helped in setting up the (largely dysfunctional) Mujahideen government afterplaying the role of the key mediatorin the Peshawar Accords of 1992, had brought about a favorable balance of power for itself in Afghanistan. To ameliorate India’s situation in Afghanistan, New Delhi under the Narasimha Rao government brought changes to India’s Afghan strategy and started reaching out to all the Mujahideen factions in Afghanistan, irrespective of their ideology or relations with Pakistan. It was decided, as formerIndian diplomat M.K. Bhadrakumar later put it, that India should deal “strictly with the government in Kabul, no matter its proximity with Pakistan or its security agencies” and “deal with whosoever was in power in Kabul and focus … on cultivating a friendly government that was sensitive to India’s vital interests and core concerns.” Rao’s policy on Afghanistan also focused on building people-to-people relations and winning goodwill in the country through contributing “towards Afghanistan’s economic welfare.”
Though it has beenclaimedthat a few Mujahideen commanders maintained covert ties with the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), India’s intelligence agency, even during the Soviet era, under Rao’s leadership, India’s diplomat and bureaucrats, who were previously in the firm embrace of Najibullah, soon started building overt and tangible relationships with Mujahideen leaders. Medical and humanitarian supplies were provided to key war lords. Surprisingly the Mujahideen leadership was not averse to Indian outreach.  Rabbani, the then-president of the Mujahideen government, in 1992 made it clear that the Afghan Mujahideen would not look to interfere in the Kashmir issue. He hadsaid, “We hope the Kashmir issue is resolved on the basis of UN resolutions and talks and negotiations.” Good relations with India benefited Mujahideen leaders not only as a source of aid and supplies but, to some leaders, also as a counterweight to balance their overdependence on Pakistan.
When in the midst of intra-Mujahideen fighting a little-known militia called the Taliban reared its head, Indian policymakers saw it as a fringe group and a lesser player in the overall fratricidal conflict in Afghanistan. In 1994, when theTaliban forces capturedthe strategic border post of Spin Boldak and made significant advances with direct Pakistani help, Indian strategists did not react in haste. Intel about the Taliban mostly came to Indian intelligence through friendlyMujahideen contacts. India had no engagement with the Taliban directly and had no deep understanding of their prowess and sway over the Pashtuns, who were suffering from instability and brutality under Mujahideen war lords. So when in 1996 Taliban forces marched victoriously onto the streets of Kabul, it was a massive shock for India.
The Northern Alliance and India’s Efforts at Clinging on to Afghanistan
India, like most of the world, was averse to the Taliban, which it saw as a radical extremist Islamic organization with a strong misogynistic mold. It endorsed UN Security Council Resolution 1076, which censured Taliban for its severe violations of human and women’s rights. Further, India chose not to recognize the Taliban regime. In that moment of crisis, India had almost zero clout in the vast majority of areas in Afghanistan that were ruled by the Taliban and New Delhi instead sought to build up relations with the Northern Alliance (United Front), which still controlled a small slice of the country. It has been credibly reported that India providedcovert helpto the forces of the Northern Alliance in their fight against the Taliban. India’s airbase at Farkhor in Tajikistan was critically important in delivering goods to the group.
Though India did not recognize the Taliban regime and supported their rivals in the north of the country, the Taliban did not take overtly anti-India positions, nor did it engage in anti-India rhetoric. In 1999, when a hijacked Indian Airlines plane was taken to Kandahar, the Indian government was forced to open talks with the Taliban. Despite the safe return of Indian passengers from Afghanistan, after the release of three Indian-held terrorists, it was alleged that the Taliban took afavorable position toward Pakistanin the entire episode. While India had had no formal contact with the Taliban before the incident, Pakistan had solidified its patronizing relationship with the Taliban by then.
The tide shifted yet again in 2001. With the U.S.-led war on Taliban, India found its way back into Afghanistan. However, in the overall geopolitical calculations, Pakistan emerged as an all-important country due to its proximity to the Taliban heartland and its strong leverage over the militant group. Many times it has been alleged that, to cater to Pakistani wishes, India’s active involvement in Afghanistan has beendiscouraged– even though India and the United States share common goals and principles in relation to democracy and development in Afghanistan. In 2001, India was not invited to the Bonn conference, where the post-Taliban order in Afghanistan was discussed. Though eventually India joined as an observer and engaged in informal negotiations, it had to move its support from its old allies like Qanooni and Abdullah from the Northern Alliance to the United States’ favored Pashtun candidate, Hamid Karzai. In helping to bring about a consensus around the Pashtun leadership of Karzai, India also lost its existing clout among the non-Pashtun leadership, its friends in the erstwhile Northern Alliance.
The Pro-Pashtun Tilt
The Northern Alliance leadership disintegrated after Bonn and India looked for better ties with the Pashtuns. Despite India’s support, Karzai at the start of his tenure didn’t have afavorable outlookon India’s involvement in Afghanistan. Moreover, as suggested by author James Dobbins, the United States waskeen to keep India at a distance from Afghanistanso as to allay Pakistan’s fears. India faced a bleak picture, but then Karzai’s outreach to Pakistan failed. With the Taliban having made a comeback, Karzai looked toward better and closer ties with India.
India’s relation with Afghanistan improved markedly under the Karzai presidency and New Delhi invested heavily in developmental and infrastructural projects in Pashtun regions to forge better ties with the Pashtun people and their leadership. Under the Small Development Project Scheme, India has invested in adisproportionately high numbers of projects in the Pashtun-dominated areas of Afghanistanso as to reach out to the people living in these regions. The Durand line that divides the Pashtun heartland between Afghanistan and Pakistan lends the region great importance, as Pashtun linkages can lead to strong leverage across the border too. It is also vital for India to keep a strong presence in the Pashtun region as it links to the Greater Balochistan region. Doing so also keepsPakistan  wary over India’s  increasinglinkages with the Pashtun leaders and people.
In 2011, Afghanistan signed its first Strategic Partnership Agreement with India — after Karzai had rejected a similar offer from Pakistan. After Karzai’s term ended, though, India faced similar issues with his successor, Ashraf Ghani, who also reached out to Pakistan in hopes of bringing the Taliban to an Afghan-led negotiation. But when Ghani’s rapprochement to Pakistan failed to deliver, India again found itself in the good books of the leadership in Kabul.
Since 2001, India’s investment in Afghanistan has increased many folds. Apart from investing in developmental, educational, and capacity-building projects, India has also made a geostrategic outreach toward Afghanistan bylinking the Iranian port of Chabahar to Afghanistan through the Zaranj-Delaram road. Atripartite agreementto ease the exchange of goods from India to Afghanistan and vice versa through the Iranian port of Chabahar has been signed by India, Iran, and Afghanistan. India trains approximately 1,000 Afghan officers every year and has provided Mi-25 and Mi-35 helicopters along with 285 military vehicles to the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF). India’s engagement with Afghanistan has only increased over the years, but with the sixth round of Doha talks on peace settlement in Afghanistan currently underway, a total U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan may be imminent in the near future.
Are Talks With the Taliban a Possible Way Forward for India?
In a fragmented polity like Afghanistan, India has often based its engagement on one or a few particular factions and thus, due to the treacherous nature of domestic politics and strife, often risked losing its stakes in the country. This has changed significantly in the current scenario but India maintains a strong Pashtun tilt and still officially is not ready for talks with the Taliban.
In today’s Afghanistan, the Taliban form both the problem and the solution. The group has emerged as an ethno-nationalist force with various factions stitched together through tribal-ethnic allegiances rather than a mere Islamic extremist organization. There are groups and subfactions within the Taliban that do not view their overbearing dependence on Pakistan favorably.
The Taliban are players in Afghanistan and India needs to engage with them, even if only with the subfactions that may be motivated to accept the Afghan Constitution. Unlike the Taliban period, India may not avail itself of the full support of Iran and Russia, as both countries have had limited ties with the Taliban and their interests are not wholly congruent with India anymore. In a post-U.S. Afghanistan, India can safeguard its interests through an approach that is balanced, nuanced, and conciliatory in nature, but also moderately partisan when and if required. There are possibilities for India to build a stronger consensus among Afghan stakeholders (Pashtun and non-Pashtuns alike), through largely conciliatory approaches, to present a united front against the Taliban while simultaneously also engaging in or facilitating negotiations with the Taliban.
Avinandan Choudhury is a doctoral fellow in the department of Politics and International Studies in Pondicherry University.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: India is pivotal to peace in Afghanistan, says spl envoy | India News - The Indian Express
Afghanistan’s High Peace Council Secretary and President Ashraf Ghani’s Special Envoy Mohammad Umer Daudzai on Friday said that National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval agreed the conflict in Afghanistan should be solved through direct talks, led and owned by the Afghan government.Daudzai’s comments assume significance since the US has been leading the talks with the Taliban, which has often refused to negotiate with the Afghan government.
Daudzai, who met Doval and External Affairs MinisterSushma Swarajon Friday in separate bilateral meetings, tweeted, “Visited India & met Mr.Ajit Doval, India’s NSA in New Delhi. Discussed the role of regional countries in the Peace process. In particular, emphasized on India’s role in the government led #AfghanPeaceProcess.”
He further wrote, “The Indian NSA also agreed that conflict in Afghanistan should be solved through direct talks, led and owned by the Afghan government.”
India has recently engaged with US, China, Russia and Iran among others on the situation in Afghanistan. Speaking at the Indian Council of World Affairs (ICWA), the chief executive of the Afghanistan High Peace Council, Daudzai said that India’s role is “key” to the peace in Afghanistan.“We are fully satisfied with support from India. The entire region is not on the same page but India and Afghanistan are on the same page,” he told an audience, comprising of the diplomatic and strategic affairs community in Delhi.
He also said that on democracy, Afghanistan takes “inspiration from India” as it built the Afghan Parliament. He also expressed gratitude for India’s help in defence, as it has handed over replacement of two attack helicopters on Thursday.
MEA official spokesperson Raveesh Kumar tweeted, “EAM @SushmaSwaraj & Foreign Secretary met Afghanistan’s High Peace Council Secretary & President Ghani’s Special Envoy @Umerdaudzai2 ,who briefed the Indian leadership on the outcome of the recently held Loya Jirga. India expressed its support for sustainable peace in Afghanistan.”
According to Daudzai, US Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad and the Taliban are discussing four major areas — the US withdrawal from that country, Taliban’s relationship with terrorist groups, intra-Afghan dialogue, and ceasefire. However, the Afghan government has added one more issue under the rubric of Taliban’s relationship with the terrorist groups — about Taliban’s relationship with Pakistan.
He said that the Taliban was born in Pakistan and the relationship between Pakistan and Taliban remains. However, he was of the view that China is concerned about threat to its flagship China-Pakistan Economic Corridor from the situation in Afghanistan.
Daudzai also gave an optimistic assessment of the schedule of the Presidential elections in Afghanistan, scheduled to be held before September 29.
Click here to join The Indian Express on WhatsApp and get latest news and updates
How Marxist Anura Kumara Dissanayake won Sri Lanka’s PresidencySubscriber Only
Sound of guns is normal: No rest for village onSubscriber Only
Why AAP chose Atishi: How it gives party chance toSubscriber Only
PM Modi in US: What is the Quad grouping?
UPSC Key | Takeaways of Quad Summit, Joint Commanders’ Conference,Subscriber Only
17 years on, kidnap victim gives closing argument in ownSubscriber Only
If we still have a Kashmir problem, it’s because ofSubscriber Only
100 years of the discovery of the Indus CivilisationSubscriber Only
India’s data centre ambitions will have to go through Malaysia,Subscriber Only
Sanjeev Kumar, a talented actor, had a passion for food and even rented a house to satisfy his love for non-vegetarian dishes. Fellow actors Shammi Kapoor, Shatrughan Sinha, and Randhir Kapoor would often join him for late-night feasts. Sachin Pilgaonkar revealed this in a recent interview, highlighting Sanjeev's love for food and his bond with his colleagues.



Title: 'Real Risk': Ex-DoD Chief Says Taliban Can Retake Afghanistan After US Withdraws - 12.05.2019, Sputnik International
"I think that the circumstances under which you bring them home matter. And trying to give the Afghan government the best possible shot at survival is really important for the future of Afghanistan”, Gates told CBS.
Gates also warned of potential grave consequences of a US withdrawal, including risks to women's rights in Afghanistan.
READ MORE:Taliban, Daesh Conduct Attacks in Afghanistan, Leading to 17 Victims — Reports
The armed confrontation between Kabul and the Taliban has been dragging on for years, with the insurgents carrying out regular attacks across the country, and the government conducting anti-terrorist raids with support from the United States.
US Special Representative for Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad in a statement said Thursday that the sixth round of talks between the United States and the Taliban in Qatar has ended and faster progress is needed.

Robert Gates has told CBS that any agreement produced by the talks with the Taliban must ensure that the armed group becomes part of the government in Kabul.
“So the question is, can you negotiate an arrangement whereby the Taliban agrees to operate under the Afghan Constitution, becomes a part of the political process? […] If they agree to any kind of a compromise deal, it's really up to the other Afghans at the end of the day to- to resist any moves, to get rid of those changes, to go backward, if you will”, Gates stressed.
READ MORE:Why Daesh, Taliban are 'Destined to Merge in Afghanistan'
Afghanistan has long been in a state of turmoil, with the government fighting the Taliban movement, which controls vast territories in rural areas and regularly launches offensives across the country. The situation has been exacerbated by the activities of the Daesh terrorist group, which has been reportedly operating in Afghanistan since 2015.

In February, Trump said that future reductions in US forces would be tied to progress in peace talks, apparently backing away from a December announcement of plans to cut the present US deployment in Afghanistan.
*Taliban,Daesh (also known as ISIS/ISIL/IS) are terrorist groups banned in Russia and many other countries.

Title: Taliban visits Moscow as Russia plays increasing role in Afghanistan | The National
World
May 29, 2019

Title:  Business & Financial - International News, Currencies & Economic Indicators
ForgotUsernameorPassword

Laapataa Ladies At Oscars 2025: Remarks On Women By Film Committee Spark Outrage Online    Here's Why
Addaera Research Centre Passes ISO Certification Audit For The 7Th Year In A Row
Father Faltas Briefs French President On Suffering Of Palestinian People
In Slick, Royce Kurmelovs Exposes Just How Long, And Hard, The Fossil Fuel Industry Has Worked To Advance Its Interests
Shabana Azmi Marks 50 Yrs In Film Industry: Reflecting On Legacy Of
 'Ankur', Rise Of Parallel Cinema
Bassetts Vitamins Selects Tin Man For Consumer Brief

World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data.Contact UsClick here
Contact UsClick here
Copyright © 2000MENAFN.All rights reserved.
Design & Devleopment byMENAFN

Title: MSN


Title: Impact of the attacks in Sri Lanka on the US peace negotiations with Taliban - Daily Times
Daily Times
Your right to knowTuesday, September 24, 2024
Op-Ed

Abdul Sayed
May 11, 2019
Sri Lanka recently witnessed a wave of terrorist attacks claimed by the IS which targeted hotels and the minority Christian community resulting in the loss of more than 360 lives. Among them were 39 foreigners belonging to UK, USA, Australia, Europe and some six other Asian countries. IS has lost almost all of its territory and power in its traditional stronghold in Syria but these attacks appear to be a comeback for the group which show links to its Khorasan province (ISKP). The ISKP is based in Afghanistan but is made up of Indian, Bangladeshi, Kashmiri, other South Asian and Central Asian members. According to reports, an Indian national member of ISKP interrogated by the Indian intelligence agencies had disclosed that he had recruited and trained Zahran Hasham.Hasham was a leading figure of ahttps://www.longwarjournal.org/archives/2019/04/terrorists-in-sri-lanka-swore-allegiance-to-baghdadi.phpSri Lankan radical Islamist group who was himself one of the suicide bomber and the ringleader of the group carried out these attacks. It was for the first time that the IS took some time in claiming responsibility for the attacks, which led many to assume that the franchise of Al Qaeda in South Asia (AQIS) was behind the attacks. This paper is aimed to analyze the impacts of the role of ISKP in the Sri Lankan attacks on the peace deal between Afghan Taliban and US.
The strategy of Al Qaeda for hiding its presence in Afghanistan has also facilitated the peace negotiations between US and Afghan Taliban by making Taliban as the only major Jihadist power of the Afghan conflict
Any such global Jihadist terrorist attack from Afghanistan especially targeting US and Western interests or their citizenship can have both negative and positive implications on the ongoing peace process between Afghan Taliban and US government. IS like in other parts of the world, is involved in a multi-front war in Afghanistan against the Afghan state, foreign troops and all other Jihadist groups. Afghan Taliban is its prime enemy who strongly opposes ISKP seeing it as a threat to its monopoly on Jihadist violence in the country. Both groups are involved in a brutal war from the last four years. But Taliban claims that they will eradicate IS from Afghanistan within weeks in case of their peace deal with the US. Thus, if the role of ISKP is established in the Sri Lankan attacks or any other similar global terrorist attack, it can further bring near US government to a peace deal with Afghan Taliban. On the other hand, AQIS was established in the mid of 2014 as a part of the decentralization strategy of post-Bin Laden Al Qaeda due to badly devastated by the loss of its central leadership and old cadres in the US drone strikes in Af-Pak region. Its establishment was also seen important for the survival of Al Qaeda in the region from the challenges faced to the group from IS which is trying to establish its monopoly on the global Jihadist network in the world. Unlike ISKP, AQIS is having very deep cordial relations with Afghan Taliban which have sheltered them inside Afghanistan. Al Qaeda is deeply dependant on Afghan Taliban not only for shelter but also for support in the region against the challenges faced to the group from IS. For example, Ayman Zawahiri highly praised Afghan Taliban for their help in taking out Al Qaeda members in 2014 from Waziristan and sheltering them inside Afghanistan by providing them a safe exist for escaping from the Pakistan army military operation. Since shifting back to Afghanistan, evidences show that Al Qaeda has considerable military presence in the country but they are trying to conceal their identity. They are taking part under the command of Afghan Taliban in fighting against the Afghan government and the US forces in order to avoid the US military attention which is busy in eradicating the global Jihadists remnants from Afghanistan. For example, the Shorabak base of Al Qaeda in Kandahar was the largest military compound of Al Qaeda in Afghanistan after 9/11 which was discovered and destroyed by the US forces in 2017 resulted in the killing of dozens of members of Al Qaeda. The policy of Al Qaeda to hide its presence in Afghanistan can also be judged from the fact that its media arm (As-Sahab) is not releasing any videos about their militant attacks in Afghanistan as they used to do onward 2001 till 2014.
The strategy of Al Qaeda for hiding its presence in Afghanistan has also facilitated the peace negotiations between US and Afghan Taliban by making Taliban as the only major Jihadist power of the Afghan conflict. In addition to this, the main condition of the US for a peace accord with Afghan Taliban is demanding them to cut all ties with Al Qaeda and to provide a surety to not let the soil of Afghanistan to be used against the outside world. The so far progress in these negotiations show that Afghan Taliban accepts both of these demands. It was also confirmed by the central leadership of Afghan Taliban in the recent step of the peace process hosted by the Qatari Al-Baraka Peace Institute in Doha last month where Afghan nationals from different parts of the world were invited. I was told by one of the Afghan participant from Europe that it was evident from their discussion with the Afghan Taliban leadership that they not only agree to these points but also do not have any objection on the civilian presence of US officials in Afghanistan after the peace deal. All these conditions of the US-Taliban peace deal are direct threat to the existence of the Al Qaeda in Afghanistan but they have kept silence on the Taliban-US peace negotiations. Zawahiri and Hamza Bin Laden regularly issues detail messages about the global Jihadist problem but they do not mention anything about this apparent challenge to Al Qaeda. The above discussion makes it to conclude that it makes very low possibility from Al Qaeda from Afghanistan to launch any terrorist attack like the current Sri Lankan attacks. This will spoil the ongoing peace process for which Al Qaeda seems aligned with Afghan Taliban. On the other hand, after defeated in Syria, IS warned to launch attacks from its branches in other parts of the world. As Afghanistan is one of the strongest branch of IS after defeat in Syria, so the group can use it for launching more global terror attacks.
The writer is M.Sc. Global studies, Lund University, Sweden




More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category

HomeLead StoriesLatest NewsEditor’s Picks
CultureLife & StyleFeaturedVideos
EditorialsOP-EDSCommentaryAdvertise
CartoonsLettersBlogsPrivacy Policy
ContactCompany’s FinancialsInvestor InformationTerms & Conditions
FacebookTwitterInstagramYoutube
Copyright © 2024 Daily TimesWebsite Developed ByDaily Times Developers

Title:  Islamic State establishes a Wilayat or Province in Pakistan
ForgotUsernameorPassword

Date
(MENAFN- NewsIn.Asia) "> Islamabad, May 17 (VOA): The Islamic State group says it has established a "province" in Pakistan, days after theterroristorganization used the name "Hind Province" for an attack it claimed in the India-ruled portion of the disputed Kashmir region.Both of the divisions formerly fell under the "Khorasan Province" or ISKP — the name the Middle East-based terrorist group uses for its regional operations launched in early 2015 from bases in the border region of Afghanistan — according to the SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors jihadist threats.The "Islamic State Pakistan Province," in communiques issued via its global propaganda mouthpiece Amaq News Agency, took credit for killing a Pakistani police officer this week in Mastung, and it reported shooting at a gathering of militants linked to the outlawed Pakistani Taliban militant group in Quetta.Both the districts are located in violence-hit Baluchistan province, which borders Afghanistan and Iran. Several separatist Baluch groups and sectarian organizations also are active in the province.There was no immediate reaction available from the Pakistani government.Islamabad maintains there is no "organized" presence of IS in the country. Pakistani military officials say an ongoing nationwide military-led "intelligence-based operation" is primarily aimed at denying space in Pakistan to extremists linked to any terrorist groups.The group released no details about the boundaries of the territory it is now claiming. In previous Islamic State propaganda, all of Afghanistan and most of Pakistan, parts of modern Iran and Central Asia make up the so-called Khorasan Province. IS also has spoken about creating its own chapter for the Indian subcontinent.Marketplace expolsionIS also took responsibility for last month's suicide blast in a marketplace in Quetta city that killed 20 people and left nearly 50 injured. The targets of the attack were members of the ethnic Hazara Shiite Muslim community.On Friday, IS declared in a statement via Amaq the creation of "Hind Province," while taking responsibility for clashes with Indian forces in Amshipora in the Shopian district of Kashmir.IS has increased attacks lately in the region, including taking credit for the group's Easter Sunday first-ever bombings in Sri Lanka that killed more than 250 people.Observers say altering its provincial structure and fragmenting the "Khorasan Province" by IS could be aimed at bolstering its credentials after losing its "caliphate" in Syria and Iran, where the terrorists at one point used to control thousands of miles of territory."As ISIS [one of several acronyms used for IS] seeks to build and restructure foundations of insurgencies across the globe after its losses in Iraq and Syria, it is attempting to recruit also from Pakistan, a country with an existing jihadi militant population," tweeted Rita Katz, the director of the SITE Intelligence Group.The suspected rebranding of ISKP comes as the United Nations earlier this week designated the 'Khorasan Province' as a global terrorist, noting the group was formed in January 2015 by former members of the Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) who pledged allegiance to Abu Baker al-Baghdadi, leader of the ISIS/ISIL.The United States has already blacklisted ISKP as a foreign terrorist organization, and American troops are conducting regular airstrikes against the group's bases in Afghanistan with the help of local forces, killing thousands of militants.Analysts say American counterterrorism airstrikes and clashes with the Afghan Taliban have prevented ISKP from expanding its regional influence and the rebranding strategy could have stemmed from those challenges.'Khorasan chapter has been struggling to establish a footprint in Afghanistan and the region in general, and they may be following al-Qaida's strategy to create regional affiliates,' says Muhammad Amir Rana, who heads Islamabad-based Pakistan Institute for Peace and Studies (PIPS).(The images at the top is a stock picture of ISIS entering a conquered territory)MENAFN1705201901910000ID1098535335
Both of the divisions formerly fell under the "Khorasan Province" or ISKP — the name the Middle East-based terrorist group uses for its regional operations launched in early 2015 from bases in the border region of Afghanistan — according to the SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors jihadist threats.
The "Islamic State Pakistan Province," in communiques issued via its global propaganda mouthpiece Amaq News Agency, took credit for killing a Pakistani police officer this week in Mastung, and it reported shooting at a gathering of militants linked to the outlawed Pakistani Taliban militant group in Quetta.
Both the districts are located in violence-hit Baluchistan province, which borders Afghanistan and Iran. Several separatist Baluch groups and sectarian organizations also are active in the province.
There was no immediate reaction available from the Pakistani government.
Islamabad maintains there is no "organized" presence of IS in the country. Pakistani military officials say an ongoing nationwide military-led "intelligence-based operation" is primarily aimed at denying space in Pakistan to extremists linked to any terrorist groups.
The group released no details about the boundaries of the territory it is now claiming. In previous Islamic State propaganda, all of Afghanistan and most of Pakistan, parts of modern Iran and Central Asia make up the so-called Khorasan Province. IS also has spoken about creating its own chapter for the Indian subcontinent.
Marketplace expolsion
IS also took responsibility for last month's suicide blast in a marketplace in Quetta city that killed 20 people and left nearly 50 injured. The targets of the attack were members of the ethnic Hazara Shiite Muslim community.
On Friday, IS declared in a statement via Amaq the creation of "Hind Province," while taking responsibility for clashes with Indian forces in Amshipora in the Shopian district of Kashmir.
IS has increased attacks lately in the region, including taking credit for the group's Easter Sunday first-ever bombings in Sri Lanka that killed more than 250 people.
Observers say altering its provincial structure and fragmenting the "Khorasan Province" by IS could be aimed at bolstering its credentials after losing its "caliphate" in Syria and Iran, where the terrorists at one point used to control thousands of miles of territory.
"As ISIS [one of several acronyms used for IS] seeks to build and restructure foundations of insurgencies across the globe after its losses in Iraq and Syria, it is attempting to recruit also from Pakistan, a country with an existing jihadi militant population," tweeted Rita Katz, the director of the SITE Intelligence Group.
The suspected rebranding of ISKP comes as the United Nations earlier this week designated the 'Khorasan Province' as a global terrorist, noting the group was formed in January 2015 by former members of the Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) who pledged allegiance to Abu Baker al-Baghdadi, leader of the ISIS/ISIL.
The United States has already blacklisted ISKP as a foreign terrorist organization, and American troops are conducting regular airstrikes against the group's bases in Afghanistan with the help of local forces, killing thousands of militants.
Analysts say American counterterrorism airstrikes and clashes with the Afghan Taliban have prevented ISKP from expanding its regional influence and the rebranding strategy could have stemmed from those challenges.
'Khorasan chapter has been struggling to establish a footprint in Afghanistan and the region in general, and they may be following al-Qaida's strategy to create regional affiliates,' says Muhammad Amir Rana, who heads Islamabad-based Pakistan Institute for Peace and Studies (PIPS).
(The images at the top is a stock picture of ISIS entering a conquered territory)
MENAFN1705201901910000ID1098535335
MENAFN1705201901910000ID1098535335
Legal Disclaimer:MENAFNprovides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.

Tags
Comments
Category
Date
Daily(English)Daily(Arabic)All()

World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data.
Contact UsClick here
Copyright © 2000MENAFN.All rights reserved.
Design & Devleopment byMENAFN

Title: IS claim to establish 'Pakistan province' far removed from reality - Daily Times
Daily Times
Your right to knowTuesday, September 24, 2024
Pakistan

Tahir Khan
May 20, 2019
The recent announcement by the self-described ‘Islamic State’ to establish ‘Pakistan province’ is an attempt to convince their frustrated militants as its ‘Islamic State Khorasan Province’ or ISKP is at the verge of collapse, two Pakistani militants who have knowledge about the development, toldDaily Times.
Days earlier, the ISIS, also known as Daesh, has also announced its India branch.
The announcement came nearly three weeks after the group released a video of its leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, for the first time in five year.
Although Baghdadi’s whereabouts are still a mystery, a sympathizer of Afghan Taliban says the clothes Baghdadi and others wear and the cushions in room where he appears in the 18-minute video have been the style of foreign militants in Afghanistan. It could also be an attempt by Daesh to create confusion about the hideout of Baghdadi.
Two Pakistani militants played down the Daesh announcement of establishing Pakistan province.
A Pakistani Taliban leader, who lived in eastern Afghanistan where Daesh had also sanctuaries, said it’s claim of Pakistan province is just a ‘morale boosting’ attempt by the remnants of Daesh that the group has another option as it faces lots of problem in Khorasan. “Daesh fighters are frustrated and many have surrendered to the Afghan authorities. The group’s leadership has realised that presently they do not have a strong organisational structure to help fighters. Daesh leaders now want to give some courage to their fighters that they have an area for existence/shelter and that could be Pakistan and India province,” the leader, who has served on senior positions of the banned Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan, toldDaily Times.
“My information is that Daesh currently does not have strength/power/capability to create a province in Pakistan,” he further said, adding he believes some TTP and Lashkar-e-Jhangvi militants have joined the group and helped them in some attacks in Balochistan. “They could carry out some activities in Pakistan to show their existence but this does not mean they are strong like they had been in Afghanistan, Syria and Iraq,” he said.
When asked about the IS’ present position in Afghanistan, he said the group has not yet been eliminated completely in Afghanistan and their militants routinely move from one area to another. “Announcement of Pakistan province is an attempt to reduce their frustration and to give some courage to their militants,” the Taliban leader said, requesting anonymity.
A Jamaat-ul-Ahrar official has similar opinion about Daesh. He said section of the Western media ‘exaggerated’ the Daesh announcement about new provinces and that the group has also violated its own principles of provinces. “They (Daesh) had a principle that a province will be announced when they have thousands of active members and a specific quantity of weapons. Their activities in Pakistan are no more significant and even their claims about attacks are almost false,” he said.
He said majority of Afghans are now part of Daesh who have now moved to the mountainous areas in Kunar from Nangarhar, parts of which had been their control or influence over the past few years.
Previously the US, Afghan officials as well as the Afghan Taliban would say that about 70 percent of the Daesh militants are Pakistani nationals, mostly from Orakzai tribal district.
The Ahrar official said hundreds of Daesh militants, including Pakistani nationals, have surrendered to the Afghan government and many others have been killed in US drone attacks and ground operations in Afghanistan’s Nangarhar province.
A Pakistan Taliban leader, Hafiz Saeed Khan, who was killed in a US drone attack in eastern Afghanistan in July 2016, was the first leader formally appointed as leader of the ISKP by Baghdadi. Dozens of Pakistani Taliban later switched loyalties to IS after Saeed Khan parted ways with Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan in 2014.
Abu Saad Erhabi, another chief of IS in Afghanistan, was killed in a US drone strike in eastern Afghanistan, along with nine other militants. Erhabi was the brother of Hafiz Saeed Khan, according to the militants.
Pakistani officials have been saying there is no organized presence of IS in Pakistan. However, the group has claimed a series of deadly attacks in Balochistan and Sindh. In 2017, it claimed responsibility for the attack on Lal Shahbaz Qalandar’s shrine in Sehwan, which killed nearly 90 people. The group also claimed responsibility for a suicide attack in a marketplace in Quetta in April that killed nearly 20 people and injured about 50. The target was members of the ethnic Hazara Shia community.




More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category

HomeLead StoriesLatest NewsEditor’s Picks
CultureLife & StyleFeaturedVideos
EditorialsOP-EDSCommentaryAdvertise
CartoonsLettersBlogsPrivacy Policy
ContactCompany’s FinancialsInvestor InformationTerms & Conditions
FacebookTwitterInstagramYoutube
Copyright © 2024 Daily TimesWebsite Developed ByDaily Times Developers

Title: Ramadan Rage – Casualties Exceed 1,000 at End of 3rd Week: 531 Deaths, 556 Injuries
The number of casualties at the hands of radical Islamists during this year’s Ramadan hit a grim milestone at the end of the holy month’s third week, with over 100 attacks in nearly 20 countries that killed 531 people and maimed 556 others, a Breitbart News count shows.
So far this year, jihadis have killed 25 people and wounded about 26, on average, each day sinceRamadanbegan at sunset on May 5. The holy period is expected end at sundown on June 4.
This week, Breitbart News’ tally covers deaths and injuries at the hands of at least seven Islamic terrorist organizations between May 6 and 26.
Of 105 terrorist incidents during the three weeks covered by this report, Breitbart News was unable to determine which group carried out ten that resulted in 25 deaths and 47 injuries. That means authorities have not determined a culprit for only seven percent of the total 1,087 casualties carried out across 17 countries during the first three weeks of Ramadan.
Talibanjihadis remain the most prolific terrorists during the holy month with 40 attacks (165 deaths; 189 injuries), trailed closely by the 33 incidents (156 deaths; 191 injuries) linked to the Islamic State (ISIS/ISIL).
When it comes to fatalities alone, however, the Taliban and ISIS are responsible for about 30 percent each.
As it stands now,Afghanistandwarfs all other countries as the bloodiest region during Ramadan, with at least 185 deaths and 256 injuries.
Unlike the Afghan Taliban, ISIS hasglobal ambitionswith tens of thousands of fighters in Iraq, Syria, and beyond.
Despite the complete demise of the so-called ISIS caliphate in March, “14,000 to 30,000” fighters, facilitators, and other supporters affiliated with the terrorist group remain “dispersed” across Iraq and Syria, the Pentagon’s office of the inspector general (OIG)reportedon May 7.
About5,000more ISIS fighters have flocked to Afghanistan, the OIG added in a separate report, echoingRussia, which believes some of those jihadis fought on behalf of the group in Syria where Moscow maintains a presence.
With a total of 177 casualties (72 deaths; 105 injuries), Iraq has surfaced as the second bloodiest country during Ramadan, followed by Nigeria’s 133 deaths (92) and injuries (105).
ISIS also maintains a presence inNigeriaand other places across the African continent.
As in previous years, the West has not proven immune to the Ramadan carnage.
One of theinfamousknife attacks by random jihadis chanting the Islamist battle cry “Allah Akbar” took place in France on May 19, leaving two people injured. Similar attacks have plagued other parts ofEurope, includingGreat Britain,Germany, andSpain.
Similar to other years, most Ramadan attack victims are Muslims in the Middle East and Africa, with the latter seeing a substantial spike this year.
Radical Islamists, like the Taliban narco-jihadis,encouragetheir followers and supporters tointensifyattacks during the holy month, arguing that Allah exceptionally rewards martyrdom during Ramadan.
Breitbart News primarily gleans its data for its Ramadan death tally from the Religion of Peacewebsite, but it also relies upon otherdatabasesas well as media and government reports.
News outlets and officials may update some of the casualty figures as some of the wounded victims succumb to their injuries, potentially altering the count after Breitbart News publishes this report.
Most Muslims follow the peaceful Ramadan tradition of abstaining from eating, drinking, smoking, having sex, and other physical needs each day, starting from before the break of dawn until sunset. Nevertheless, the number of attacks at the hands of jihadis tends to escalate during the month when compared to other times of the year.
Breitbart News has documented the following attacks during Ramadan:
May 6 —North Waziristan, Pakistan— Suspected Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) jihadiskillfour security forces, injure ten others.
May 6 —Kirkuk, Iraq— Suspected ISIS killthreepolice officers, wound one other.
May 6 —Takhar, Afghanistan— Talibankillseight security force members.
May 6 —Farah, Afghanistan— Talibanstormsarmy checkpoint, killing 20, abducting two.
May 7 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haram razes homes and businesses in Molai village,killing11, including four soldiers, and woundinganother12.
May 7 —Pendjari National Park, Benin— Unknown jihadis from neighboring Burkina Faso kidnap two French tourists across the border in Benin andkilltheir guide in the Pendjari National Park that straddles both countries.
May 7 —Yatenga, Burkina Faso— Suspected al-Qaeda jihadiskilltoll booth operator and wound two others in the provincial capital of Ouahigouya.
May 7 —Laghman, Afghanistan— Taliban-linked bomb blastkillsfour police officers, including chief, and wounds four others.
May 7 —Salahuddin, Iraq— Suspected ISIS terrorists attack police officer’s house in the village of Mazarei,killingthree and wounding five others.
May 8 —Nineveh, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadiskillfive family members and wound two others inside their home in the Hammam al-Alil area south of Mosul.
May 8 —Diyala, Iraq— Bomb attack linked to suspected ISIS terroristwoundstwo members of the Baghdad-sanctioned Popular Mobilization Forces (PMF).
May 8 —Manbij, Syria— Suspected ISIS terroriststargetthe U.S.-backed and Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) in Aleppo province,killingtwo and injuring four others, including at least onechild.
May 8 —Manbij, Syria— Suspected ISIS bombattackkills three civilians in Aleppo province, reportedly allchildren.
May 8 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Taliban attacks U.S. aid group,killingnine,wounding24 others.
May 8 —Punjab, Pakistan— TTP attacks pilgrims at an 11th-century Sufi shrine in Lahore,killingat least 13, including at least one child, and injuring 21 others.
May 8 —Ghazni, Afghanistan— Taliban ambushes military convoy in the Qarabagh district,killingthree police officers and wounding two others.
May 9 —Wajir, Kenya— Al-Qaeda’s East Africa affiliate al-Shabaab claims attack on security forces near the border with Somalia,killingat least one soldier.
May 9 —Saladin, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadis target grain silo in the town of Shirqat,killingone guard.
May 9 —Nineveh, Iraq— ISISkillsa family of eight in Mosul, including the couple and their six children.
May 9 —Fezzan, Libya— SuspectedISISjihadiskilltwo and kidnapped a third person from the town of Ghadduwah.
May 9 —Baghdad, Iraq— ISIS suicide bomberkillseight, wounds 15 others as they broke their Ramadan fast at the Jamila market.
May 10 —Mopti, Mali— Suspected al-Qaeda jihadiskillfour civilians, wound two others at the market in the town of Bandiagara.
May 10 —Badghis, Afghanistan— Taliban targets two outposts,killing25 security personnel and wounding 11 others in Bala Murghab district.
May 10 —Borno, Nigeria— ISIS West Africakills11 troops in the town of Gajiganna.
May 10 —Bari, Somalia—SuspectedISISwoundstenin a failed assassination attempt against a local judge in the port city of Bosaso.
May 10 —Balkh, Afghanistan— Taliban attacks army outpost in Balkh District, killing one local police officer and wounding four soldiers and a police officer.
May 11 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haramattacksthe Moranti village near Maiduguri, leaving nine dead, at least one wounded, and four missings.
May 11 —Baghdad, Iraq— Suspected ISIS-linked bomb blastkillsone child, wounds two others in the Jisr Diyala neighborhood located in the southern part of the capital.
May 11 —Nangarhar, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban terroristskilldeputy intelligence director for the Afghan National Police (ANP) in the Kama district.
May 11 —Takhar, Afghanistan —Talibankillsfour police officers and wounds five others in a security outpost in Khwaja Ghar District.
May 11 —Sar-i-Pul, Afghanistan — Talibankillsone police officer in Sancharak District,
May 11 —Nangarhar, Afghanistan— Taliban ambushes andkillsa police officer as he drove home in the Kama District.
May 11 —Samangan, Afghanistan— Taliban narco-jihadiskillthree pro-Kabul militiamen in Khuram Ao Sarbagh district.
May 11 —Samangan, Afghanistan— Taliban rocket attackkillsfive civilians, including women, and wounds ten others in Dara-i-Suf Payan district.
May 12 —Mogadishu, Somalia—Al-ShabaabkillsTurkish civil engineer.
May 12 —Baghlan, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban jihadiskillprovince’s deputy intelligence director and injure an intelligence officer in the Dushi district.
May 12 —Hama, Syria— Suspected former al-Qaeda affiliate Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS)firesa rocket into Christian-majority town of Suqaylabiyah, killing five, including four children and a woman, and injuring six other children.
May 12 —Sanmatenga, Burkina Faso— Unknown jihadis attack Catholic church, set it ablaze, andkillsix, including the priest.
May 12 —Paktika, Afghanistan— Hundreds of Taliban jihadis storm outposts in the districts of Mata Khan and Zurmat,killing13 police officers and wounding 19 others.
May 12 —Wardak, Afghanistan— Taliban targets members of the Shiite Hazara community in the Hesa-e-Dowom-e-Behsod district,leaving5 civilians dead, 12 others wounded, and five missings.
May 13 —Baghlan, Afghanistan— Suspected Talibanshootsteacher in Nahren district.
May 13 —Borno, Nigeria— Improvised explosive device (IED) planted by Boko Haram on a road in Damboa district killed three Nigerian troops, including a commander, and wounded four others.
May 13 —Nangarhar, Afghanistan— ISIS carries out three explosions in its main South Asia stronghold that rocked the provincial capital of Jalalabad,killing9 and wounding more than 30 others.
May 13 —Diyala, Iraq— ISISkillsfather and son.
May 13 —Balochistan, Pakistan— Pakistani Taliban, or TTP, targeted a police vehicle near a mosque with an improvised bomb rigged to a motorcycle,killingfour and wounding 11 in the provincial capital of Quetta.
May 13 —Hama, Syria— Al-Qaeda affiliateHTS, under siege by Syrian regime forces, suspected of firing more rockets into Christian-majority town of Suqaylabiyah,killingone child.
May 13 —Yatenga, Burkina Faso— Unknown jihadiskilledfour Catholics, burned Virgin Mary during a procession in the town ofOuahigouyain the Muslim-majority nation.
May 13 —Sar-i-Pul, Afghanistan— Talibankillsseven pro-Kabul militiamen, wounds six, and kidnaps three others in the provincial capital of Sar-i-Pul city.
May 13 —Badakhshan, Afghanistan— Talibankillsfour ANDSF troops, including commander, and wounds one other in  Shahri Buzurg district.
May 14 —Nayrab Camp, Syria— Suspected members of al-Qaeda affiliate HTS lobbed missiles into a Syrian-regime held camp for displaced people in Aleppo province,killingat least 6 andwoundingat least 11 others, includingchildren, as they broke their Ramadan fast.
May 14 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Improvised explosive device (IED) attached to a vehiclekilleda police officer in the Taliban birthplace and wounded another.
May 14 —Baghlan, Afghanistan— Unknown terrorists attached IED to a vehicle,killingone civilian and wounding three others.
May 14 —Jowzjan, Afghanistan— Talibankillsone pro-government militiaman and wounds six others in Qarqin district.
May 14 —Tillaberi, Niger– ISISkills28 soldiers andwoundsat least two near the Mali border.
May 14 —Ghor, Afghanistan— Talibankillsshopkeeper inDolina district.
May 14 —Mogadishu, Somalia— Al-Shabaab suicide bomberkillsfour office workers and injures at least nine other civilians in the Warta Nabadda district.
May 15 —Paktia, Afghanistan— TalibankillsANDSF soldier and wounds two others.
May 15 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Unknown terrorists in the Taliban birthplace of Kandahar provincekilla police officer in charge of the provincial capital.
May 15 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISISkillstwo policemen and wounds another in the town of al-Rashad.
May 15 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISISkillsfour federal policemen near the town of Hawijah.
May 16 —Zabul, Afghanistan— Talibankillssix Afghan National Defense and Security Forces (ANDSF) and wounds six others in attacks on two military checkpoints in Shamulzayi district.
May 16 —Zabul, Afghanistan— Talibankillsthree police officers, wounds two others in the provincial capital.
May 16 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Unknown jihadiskillfour members of the Public Protection Forces in the outskirts of the Afghan capital.
May 16 —Adamawa, Nigeria— Boko Haram jihadismassacrefive people, including farmers and fishermen, in the Madagali district.
May 16 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haram terroristsmassacrenine people, including farmers and fishermen, in the Maichulmuri village.
May 16 —Lake Chad, Chad— Boko Haramkills13 villagers in the village of Ceilia.
May 16 —Manbij, Syria— Suspected ISIS jihadis carry out suicide vehicle-borne improvised explosive device (SVBIED) attack,killsone U.S.-backed Kurdish fighter andinjuringten civilians.
May 17 —Diyala, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadiskilledtwo civilians, including a teacher and an elderly man in the district of Khanaqin.
May 17 —Balkh, Afghanistan— Taliban jihadis, as they fled reinforcements arrival, launched rocket into Humvee,killingtwo police officers, injuring two others.
May 17 —Jowzjan, Afghanistan— At least one mankillsone of his fellow pro-government militiamen in Aqcha District, steals weapons from outpost, and joins Taliban insurgency.
May 17 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Unknown jihadis attach bomb to vehicle,killingone civilian, wounding another.
May 18 —Fezzan, Libya— Suspected ISIS jihadiskilltwo guards and a soldier and kidnap four other people at the Zella oilfield.
May 18 —Herat, Afghanistan— Suspected Talibankillsfive children, wounds 20 other civilians in the main the market of Obe district.
May 18 —Takhar, Afghanistan— Talibankillsnine militiamen and wounds seven in Rustaq district.
May 18 —Helmand, Afghanistan— Taliban roadside bombkillstwo police officers and injures two others in Washer district.
May 18 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haram attacks refugee camp,killingtwo people and injuring 12 others.
May 19 —Giza, Egypt— Suspected ISIS jihadis target a tourist bus with a bomb,injuring17.
May 19 —Diyala, Iraq— Suspected ISIS terrorists,killseven Baghdad-sanctioned PMF troops and injures 26 others.
May 19 —Timbuktu, Mali— Suspected jihadiskillone United Nations peacekeeper soldier and wound six others.
May 19 —Kunduz, Afghanistan— Talibankillstwo members of the Afghan National Army (ANA), an ANDSF branch, inImam Sahib District near the country’s border with Tajikistan.
May 19 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Talibankillsthree police officers, wounds three others at a checkpoint in the country’s capital.
May 19 —Kandahar, Afghanistan—Talibanjihadis ambush andkilla member of the Afghan Special Forces (ASF) in the Nari Pul area of the provincial capital of Kandahar city.
May 19 —Helmand, Afghanistan— Taliban roadside bombkillsthe Washir District deputy police chief and his bodyguard as they rushed in with backup.
May 19 —Faryab, Afghanistan— Parents accuse Taliban narco-jihadisof “gang rape” their two young girls in the Andkhoi district.
May 19 —Villejuif, France— Jihadiwoundstwo civilians with aknifein a southern Paris suburb while chanting the jihadi battle cry “Allahu Akbar.”
May 19 —Diyala, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadis attack a bus carrying Shiite PMF fighters,killingseven and wounding 26 in the town of Balad Ruz.
May 19 —Republican Subordination, Tajikistan— ISIS jihadis held in ahigh-security prison in the city of Vahda,killthree guards and five fellow prisoners amid a deadly prison riot.
May 19 —Sikasso Region, Mali— Suspected jihadiskillseven, including four civilians in the town of Koury, near the country’s volatile border region of Burkina Faso.
May 20 —Kapisa, Afghanistan— Taliban bombkillsfour, including child, two women in the Nejrab District.
May 20 —Paktia, Afghanistan— Talibankillstwo security guards of former Afghan lawmaker in the provincial capital of Gardez City.
May 20 —Borno, Nigeria— Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP)killsat least three soldiers when it storms a military base in the town of Gubio. Six soldiers remain missing.
May 21 —Ouham Pende, Central AfricanRepublic (CAR)— Anti-Christian and MuslimFulaniterrorist-linked militia Return, Reclamation, Rehabilitation (3R)killmore than 50 people in several villages.
May 22 —Ghazni, Afghanistan— Talibankillsthree, including children, wounds 20 others, including civilians, with explosives-laden Humvee near provincial capital of Ghazni City.
May 22 —Borno, Nigeria— ISWAP releasesvideopurportedly showing execution of nine Nigerian troops.The date of the filming of the video is not specified, but it is the first time the deaths of those in the video are confirmed.
May 22 —Mogadishu, Somalia— Al-Shabaab carries out car bomb attack near checkpoint,killingnine and wounding 13.
May 22 —Sikasso Region, Mali— Suspected jihadiskilltwo Ghanaian drivers close to the country’s border with volatile Burkina Faso.
May 22 —Salahudin, Iraq— ISISkillsone police officer, wounds three others in the Allas oilfield.
May 22 —Nineveh, Iraq— Suspected ISIS bomb attackkillsone civilian in the provincial capital Mosul’s al-Shoura district.
May 23 —Anbar, Iraq— Suspected ISIS car bombkillsone PMF fighter and a civilian in the town of al-Qaim.
May 24 —Salahuddin, Iraq— Suspected ISIS terroristskillseven, including farmers, injure four in Sharqat District before burning their harvest.
May 24 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Suspected jihadiskilltwo, including prayer leader, and wound 16 others at a mosque.
May 24 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Suspected Talibanwoundfive Romanian NATO troops in the birthplace of the Taliban.
May 24 —Balochistan, Pakistan— Suspected jihadis attack mosque in provincial capital of Quetta, killingfourand injuring18.
May 24 —Borno, Nigeria— ISWAPkillsfive troops, wound two others.
May 25 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haram ambushkills25 troops and civilians.
May 25 —Lake Chad, Chad— Boko Haramkillsat least four local troops, journalist, and injures11others in Ngouboua.
May 25 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISIS bombkillsfive, injures 10, sets crops ablaze in al-Hawija.
May 26 —Nineveh, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadiskillfive civilians, wound eight others in provincial capital Mosul’s Rabia district.
May 26 —Dhaka, Bangladesh— Suspected ISIS jihadis bombed police van,injuringthree, including one officer.
May 26 —Toulfe, Burkina Faso— Suspected jihadis attack Catholic Church during Sunday service,killingfour.
Pleaselet us knowif you're having issues with commenting.




Copyright © 2024 Breitbart

Title: Bringing Islamic State to South Asia - Daily Times
Daily Times
Your right to knowTuesday, September 24, 2024
Perspectives

Masud Ahmed Khan
June 1, 2019
On March 20, 2003, the United States invaded Iraq on the pretext that Iraq possessed weapons of mass destruction. That resulted in removal of Saddam Hussein from presidency and his subsequent execution. The execution led to a sectarian war in Iraq, which was fuelled and shaped by a Jordanian militant, the head of Al Qaeda in Iraq, Abu Mus’ab al Zarqawi. His desire was to fuel a sectarian war, and he was successful in triggering that. He was killed in a US airstrike on June 1, 2006. A group of Zarqawi’s followers later emerged as the Jamaat al Towhid wal Jihad, and in 1999, was renamed Al Qaeda in Iraq.
In 2006, the Al Qaeda in Iraq joined some other factions to form Mujahideen Shura Council, which announced the establishment of the Islamic State of Iraq. In 2010, Abu Baker Al-Baghdadi assumed command of the Islamic State of Iraq after the killing of Omar Al-Baghdadi. In 2012, he declared expansion of the Islamic State of Iraq into Syria, which was engulfed in civil war. The organisation became the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria by adding the al Nusra militant group of Syria.
On February 2, 2014, the Al Qaeda formally disavowed the ISIS it was not happy with the declaration of a caliphate. As a result, the group split into two major factions: Al Qaeda under Zawahiri and the Islamic State under Baghdadi. That resulted in fierce battles between the two factions for supremacy in the region. On June 29, 2014, the ISIS declared that it was reconstituting the caliphate, and Abu Baker Al-Baghdadi bescame the caliph. Under mounting pressure, President Barack Obama ordered air attacks on September 22, 2014, and in February 2014 Baghdadi was reportedly killed.
The ISIS announced expansion of the caliphate to the Khorasan region in 2015. The region includes parts of modern Iran, Central Asia, Afghanistan and Pakistan. Hafiz Saeed Khan, a former Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan militant, was chosen as the emir of the Islamic State of Khorasan. According to the counterterrorism unit at Westpoint, some members of the Haqqani network, the TTP and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan defected to the IS-K. The United States declared the IS-K a foreign terrorist organisation; the US air force is conducting regular air strikes against its bases in Afghanistan.
Clashes have been reported between the Afghan Taliban and the IS-K in 14 provinces of Afghanistan. A majority of the clashes took place in Nangarhar, Jowzjan and Kunar provinces. Fighting between the Taliban and the IS-K has significantly escalated for control of the eastern Afghanistan. According to the US, as on September 2018, there were reportedly around 2,000 IS-K fighters in Afghanistan.
RAW already has active and sleeper cells that would be likely to support the creation of ISIS cells to destabilise Pakistan
The Afghan Taliban’s war is confined to the territory of Afghanistan, with no regional or international ambitions unlike the ISIS and the Al Qaeda. The ISIS first announced its presence in Pakistan with an attack on a bus carrying Ismaili Muslims near Safoora Goth in Karachi. A Jundullah spokesman claimed that the group had carried out the attack. A statement purportedly from the ISIS posted on twitter also claimed that attack. It was reported that some splinters/marginalised groups of the TTP, Jamaat-ul-Ahrar, Jundullah, and Lashkar-e-Jhangvi al-Alami have pledged allegiance to the ISIS.
The National Action Plan is designed to eradicate extremism and militancy from Pakistan. It includes madrassa reforms, banning of sectarian organisations, and countering hate speech. There has been a significant decline in terrorist incidents and improvement in law and order.
Pakistan cannot be compared with the countries of the Middle East. It has a strong army, which has proved its worth in the Rah-i-Rast (2009), Rah-i-Nijat (2009) and Zarb-i-Azb (2014-17) operations, and the ongoing Operation Radd-ul-Fasad. These operations have reduced the chances of the re-emergence of banned outfits in the country.
In the Indian-occupied Kashmir, a lone militant in an interview to a Srinagar-based newspaper claimed to be an ISIS sympathiser. The ISIS reportedly claimed that it had established a new province, Walayah of Hind. It also claimed inflicting causalities on Indian army soldiers in the town of Amshipora in the Shopian district of Kashmir. Such propaganda is sometimes initiated by the RAW to malign and discredit the freedom struggle of Kashmiris in the Indian-occupied Kashmir. There are fake accounts on social media run by the RAW. In some rallies in Kashmir, infiltrating RAW agents have waved ISIS flags.
The situation in the Indian-occupied Kashmir is ideologically and militarily different from what the ISIS aims to achieve. There is no possibility for any other organised narrative to take root. The indigenous Kashmiri freedom fighters will not allow the ISIS in the Indian-occupied Kashmir to malign their freedom struggle. There is a possibility that intelligence agencies like the RAW could penetrate some ISIS-inspired groups and try to crete division and anarchy in Pakistan. RAW already has active as well as sleeper cells it could use for the purpose.
There are seven Indian companies in a list of 20 companies whose components were used by the ISIS to make explosives, a European Union-mandated study has revealed. India has been providing detonators, detonating cords and safety fuses. Other intelligence agencies with vested interests will also try to weaken Pakistan, and the ISIS and its affiliates might serve their strategic interests. Former Afghan president Hamid Karzai once told Al-Jazeera that the United States was colluding with the IS in Afghanistan, and allowing takfiris to flourish in the country.
Northern Afghanistan is turning into a support base for international terrorism led by the ISIS. Tass has reported Alexender Bortnikov, Russian intelligence agency director that there are 5,000 members of the ISIS in the region posing a threat on the borders of the Central Asian states. According to the Soufan Centre, 8,717 foreign fighters with the ISIS have emerged from the erstwhile Soviet bloc. The ISIS might use these bases to destabilise the Central Asian states.
The ISIS has been active in Bangladesh since 2015. A local group, Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen, has associated itself with the ISIS, under emir Abu Muhammad Bengali. The recent coordinated attacks in Sri Lanka that killed 250 people were claimed by the National Towheed Jamaat, an affiliate of the ISIS in Sri Lanka. According to the Sri Lanka army chief, some of the radical youth involed in the attacks were indoctrinated and trained in Tamil Nadu, India. Amaq News of the ISIS took credit for the attacks and released pictures and videos. After those attacks, India has arrested several ISIS people from Tamil Nadu. Sri Lanka and Pakistan have worked hard to restore peace in the countries. India should not allow its soil to be used for terrorism against neighbouring states.
The ongoing communal and discriminatory policies against Muslims in India are a perfect recipe for disaster when it comes to ISIS making gains on a certain community’s religious grievances. India can become the next target of the ISIS as Muslim grievances in the country continue to grow.
Abu Baker Al-Baghdadi, who was reportedly killed in Iraq, has resurfaced in a recent video since his disappearance in 2014. It is now claimed that Baghdadi may be hiding in a remote region of Afghanistan. The ISIS presence in Afghanistan is a matter of concern for Pakistan. There is no organised ISIS presence in Pakistan. There could be traces of ISIS sympathisers in some isolated places where the group is striving to show its presence. Some splinter militant factions have joined the ISIS in Afghanistan, and are receiving training for terrorist activities in Pakistan.
There is concern about the growing influence of the ISIS in Afghanistan. Chances of ISIS making inroads as an organised terrorist outfit in Pakistan are remote because of the ongoing intelligence-based military operation. There is also no civil war and the sectarian divide is not deep enough to be exploited.
The writer is a freelancer




More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category

HomeLead StoriesLatest NewsEditor’s Picks
CultureLife & StyleFeaturedVideos
EditorialsOP-EDSCommentaryAdvertise
CartoonsLettersBlogsPrivacy Policy
ContactCompany’s FinancialsInvestor InformationTerms & Conditions
FacebookTwitterInstagramYoutube
Copyright © 2024 Daily TimesWebsite Developed ByDaily Times Developers

Title: 4 Terrorists Including ISIS Member Killed By Afghan Special Forces
At least four terrorists, including a local ISIS member, were killed in an operation carried out by Afghan Special Forces in Nangarhar province, local media reported on Saturday.
According to Afghanistan's Interior Ministry, the operation was carried out in the Deh Bala district of the said province on Friday.
Six other ISIS terrorists sustained injuries during the operation, reported Sputnik.
Nangarhar lies 120 kilometres east of capital Kabul. The province witnesses' scenes of clashes between the security forces and ISIS terrorists from time to time. This has forced more than 9000 families living in the province to flee to safer places.
Afghanistan is suffering from an unstable political, social, and security situation due to the activities of the Taliban and ISIS. The Afghan National Defence and Security Forces (ANDSF) regularly conduct joint offensive operations to combat terrorism across the country.

TrackLatest NewsLive on NDTV.com and getnewsupdates fromIndiaand around theworld

Title: MSN


Title: ISIS cannot thrive in Pakistan - Daily Times
Daily Times
Your right to knowTuesday, September 24, 2024
Perspectives

Col (R) Muhammad Hanif
May 29, 2019
As stated in the article titled The End of the Caliphate Doesn’t Mean the End of ISIS, published in the NPR on March 22, the US-backed forces fighting the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria remnants in Syria have announced the capture of the last of the group’s remaining territories. The Syrian Democratic Forces, a Kurdish-led group supported by the US, has declared a “total elimination of so-called caliphate: and a complete “territorial defeat” of the ISIS.
According to the article, at one time, the extremist group controlled an area of Syria and the neighbouring Iraq the size of the Great Britain. It held cities like Mosul and Raqqa with combined populations running into millions. It was able to enforce its authoritarian laws including public beheadings, and to use the territory to recruit more followers. Now the ISIS does not hold any area in Iraq and Syria, although its members have blended in with the local population of these countries. According to the NPR, while the ISIS now does not hold any territory in Iraq or Syria, its ideology remains potent, and it continues to inspire attacks in Europe and Afghanistan.
Although the war against the ISIS has ended the group’s brutal rule, the victory has come at a high cost that will continue to cause sufferings for the people of Iraq and Syria. Intensive US air strikes in Mosul, Iraq, Raqqa, Syria, and other cities killed thousands of civilians. Large areas of the cities remain destroyed, with homeless people living in refugee camps, and major reconstruction is needed.
As stated by the NPR, the fate of the self-described caliph, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, remains unknown. He has been reported killed perhaps half a dozen times. In 2017, a Russian lawmaker said that a Russian air strike “close to 100 per cent” killed him. American military officials in Syria, however, believe that he is still alive, hiding out in the desert near the Syria-Iraq border.
Military operations such as the Zarb-i-Azb and Radd-ul-Fasaad have proved disastrous for ISIS and its sympathisers. The group has lost its local support for recruitment in Pakistan
It is surprising that Abu Baker Al Baghdadi’s violent strategy to establish the caliphate found followers among some sections of the Muslim population. It was perhaps due to weak governance in countries like Iraq and Syria that some parts of their illiterate population saw their salvation in the caliphate announced by the ISIS. Now that the ISIS has been defeated at a high cost, and the resulting death and destruction has been seen by Muslim masses in Iraq and Syria, it can be expected that in future if the ISIS re-emerges, it will not flourish in any Muslim society.
Now that the ISIS has been uprooted from Iraq and Syria, there is a perception among some circles that some foreign forces in Afghanistan who are hostile to Pakistan might sponsor ISIS elements in Afghanistan to harm Pakistan’s interests. Some people also believe that if alive, Baghdadi might also be facilitated to escape to Afghanistan to work on establishing a caliphate in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Already being fiercely opposed by the Taliban in Afghanistan, Baghdadi’s ISIS cannot succeed in getting a foothold in Pakistan by using Afghan soil. In Pakistan, the ISIS elements that had fled from Iraq and Syria a few years ago when they were under attack there have tried to get a foothold, but they have been badly defeated.
As has been mentioned in the article titled Already Routed in Syria, ISIS Loses Ground in Pak-Afghan Region by Muhammad Ahil, published in Pakistan Forward on March 29, members of the ISIS fleeing from Syria after being routed there would not find a welcoming base in Pakistan (as per experts and security analysts). It is because the terrorist group “has lost its power base in Pakistan, and it is also facing tough resistance from the Taliban in Afghanistan.” Moreover, military operations such as the Zarb-i-Azb and Radd-ul-Fasaad have proved disastrous for ISIS and its sympathisers. The group has lost local support for recruitment in Pakistan.
In Pakistan, renowned muftis and ulema have put their trust in the government and the armed forces through issuing of a consensus fatwa, Paigham-i-Pakistan, to repudiate extremist ideologies of terrorist outfits like the ISIS. According to this fatwa, Pakistani state and the government are Islamic in accordance with Shariah, and no individual or a group can proclaim its rule and jihad in Pakistan. Now that people are aware of the deceptive tactics of the ISIS, they will reject their ideology and offer full support to security forces.
The writer, a retired army officer, is a senior research fellow at the Strategic Vision Institute, Islamabad




More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category

HomeLead StoriesLatest NewsEditor’s Picks
CultureLife & StyleFeaturedVideos
EditorialsOP-EDSCommentaryAdvertise
CartoonsLettersBlogsPrivacy Policy
ContactCompany’s FinancialsInvestor InformationTerms & Conditions
FacebookTwitterInstagramYoutube
Copyright © 2024 Daily TimesWebsite Developed ByDaily Times Developers

Title: Isis has double the fighters US thinks in Afghanistan, claims Russia
https://www.bourseandbazaar.com/articles/2019/5/17/china-restarts-purchases-of-iranian-oil-bucking-trumps-sanctionsRussia has claimed that 5,000 militants affiliated to Islamic State are active in northern Afghanistan, at least double the US estimate for the group’s fighters in the whole country.
Alexander Bortnikov, director of the Federal Security Service (FSB), told a conference in Dushanbe, the capital of Tajikistan, that there was a “redeployment of terrorist groups to the northern provinces of Afghanistan”, many of them militants from former Soviet states who had fought in Syria.
“The Isis branch Wilayat Khorasan has already concentrated some 5,000 militants in these districts,” he said. The group, also known as Islamic State Khorasan (Isis-K), is fighting US-led Nato coalition forces and the Taliban.
The US military says there are 600 to 2,000 Isis fighters in Afghanistan.
A senior US intelligenceofficial told American media last month that Isis-K had mounted six big attacks in Kabul, the capital, in 2016. That grew to 18 attacks in 2017 and 24 last year. The group had targeted its recruitment efforts at university students in Kabul who could get visas and travel abroad, he said, so exporting terrorism.
Mr Bortnikov warned that although Isis had been weakened by military defeats, it remained a threat.
“In spite of heavy casualties suffered in Syria and Iraq, international terrorist groups have retained a sufficient potential for launching attacks worldwide, in particular, with the support of foreign sponsors,” he said.
His claim of such a large number of Isis-linked fighters in Afghanistan may be an exaggeration to justify Moscow’s outreach to the Taliban.
The Kremlin regards the Taliban as a “local” entity that has largely given up jihad, and so is a bulwark against real extremists. Zamir Kabulov, President Putin’s special envoy to Afghanistan, said last year that “Isis came to Afghanistan not for jihad against the Americans” but to create “a launchpad for further expansion into Central Asia”.
If Russia “sleeps through” this threat, then it and its allies in the region could face a “large force” of militants on their doorstep. He pointed out that the Amu Darya and Panj rivers separate Afghanistan from Uzbekistan and Tajikistan. From there, Isis could try to move into Russia or establish stronger links with jihadists in the country’s North Caucasus region.
Taliban militants met a delegation led by Hamid Karzai, the former Afghan president, in Moscow in February for talks arranged by Russia. The Afghan government was not represented.
The Timesreported in 2017 that Russia was funding Taliban military operations against Nato in Afghanistan through laundered fuel sales. The same year CNN said that the Taliban were using weaponry that “appears to have been supplied by the Russian government”.
Russia denies supplying cash or arms but admits exchanging intelligence with the Taliban. Mr Kabulov has said Taliban leaders told him their country was “invaded by crusaders, and we are now fighting the enemies of Islam and occupiers”, meaning Isis and Nato. He caused some alarm in Washington in 2015 when he said: “Taliban interests objectively coincide with ours.”
© Times Media Limited2024.
Registered in England No. 894646.Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, SE1 9GF.

Title: Ramadan Rage 2019: Jihadis Massacre 364, Injure 404 in Two Weeks
Islamic terrorists have carried out an estimated 76 attacks in nearly 15 countries since the beginning of Ramadan this month, killing at least 364 people and injuring 404 others in the first two weeks of the holiest month for Muslims, a Breitbart News tally shows.
That means, on average, jihadis killed at least 25 people and injured about another 30 each day since Ramadan began at sunset on May 5. This year, the holy period is expected to last through sundown on June 4.
Breitbart News’countthis week covers the 14 days of May 6 through May 19.
The tally includes a total of 768 casualties (364 deaths, 404 injuries) in 14 countries: Afghanistan, Benin, Burkina Faso, Chad, Egypt, Iraq, Pakistan, Kenya, Somalia, Libya, Mali, Nigeria, Pakistan, and Syria.
Afghan Taliban narco-jihadis surpassed their Islamic State (ISIS/ISIL) rivals as the world’s chief perpetrators of terrorist attacks during Ramadan this year, with 29 attacks that killed 146 and wounded 156.
ISIS closely trailed the Afghan Taliban with 23 assaults that resulted in 105 fatalities and 132 injuries.
The Taliban is responsible for 40 percent of all fatalities while ISIS was behind an estimated 30 percent.
Overall, the Taliban carried out nearly 40 percent (302) of all casualties, including injuries.
Breitbart News found that, so far,Afghanistan(160 deaths, 189 injuries),Nigeria(50 deaths, 33 injuries) andIraq(46 deaths, 54 injuries) are the bloodiest countries during the holy month.
Jihadis and other Islamistsencouragetheir followers and supporters to escalate attacks during the holy month, arguing that Allah exceptionally rewards martyrdom during Ramadan.
The Afghan Talibanrejecteda Ramadan ceasefire offer by the Afghan government this month. Instead, Zabihullah Mujahid, a spokesman for the narco-jihadi group,proclaimed, “As jihad is … the best part of worship, doing it on Ramadan is rewarded more than in other months.”
The vast majority of Ramadan attack victims are Muslims in Africa and the Middle East.
Breitbart News primarily gleans its data for its Ramadan death tally from the Religion of Peacewebsite, but it also relies upon otherdatabasesas well as media and government reports.
News outlets and officials may update some of the casualty figures as some of the wounded victims succumb to their injuries, potentially altering the count after Breitbart News publishes this report.
Most Muslims follow the peaceful Ramadan tradition of abstaining from eating, drinking, smoking, having sex, and other physical needs each day, starting from before the break of dawn until sunset. Nevertheless, the number of attacks at the hands of jihadis tends to escalate during the month when compared to other times of the year.
Breitbart News removed the May 11 attack in Pakistan by theethnic separatistgroup Baloch Liberation Army (BLA) as experts disagree on whether the group is primarily jihadist or secular separatist in nature.
Breitbart News has documented the following attacks during Ramadan:
May 6 —North Waziristan, Pakistan— Suspected Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) jihadiskillfour security forces, injure ten others.
May 6 —Kirkuk, Iraq— Suspected ISIS killthreepolice officers, wound one other.
May 6 —Takhar, Afghanistan— Talibankillseight security force members.
May 6 —Farah, Afghanistan— Talibanstormsarmy checkpoint, killing 20, abducting two.
May 7 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haram razes homes and businesses in Molai village,killing11, including four soldiers, and woundinganother12.
May 7 —Pendjari National Park, Benin— Unknown jihadis from neighboring Burkina Faso kidnap two French tourists across the border in Benin andkilltheir guide in the Pendjari National Park that straddles both countries.
May 7 —Yatenga, Burkina Faso— Suspected al-Qaeda jihadiskilltoll booth operator and wound two others in the provincial capital of Ouahigouya.
May 7 —Laghman, Afghanistan— Taliban-linked bomb blastkillsfour police officers, including chief, and wounds four others.
May 7 —Salahuddin, Iraq— Suspected ISIS terrorists attack police officer’s house in the village of Mazarei,killingthree and wounding five others.
May 8 —Nineveh, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadiskillfive family members and wound two others inside their home in the Hammam al-Alil area south of Mosul.
May 8 —Diyala, Iraq— Bomb attack linked to suspected ISIS terroristwoundstwo members of the Baghdad-sanctioned Popular Mobilization Forces (PMF).
May 8 —Manbij, Syria— Suspected ISIS terroriststargetthe U.S.-backed and Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) in Aleppo province,killingtwo and injuring four others, including at least onechild.
May 8 —Manbij, Syria— Suspected ISIS bombattackkills three civilians in Aleppo province, reportedly allchildren.
May 8 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Taliban attacks U.S. aid group,killingnine,wounding24 others.
May 8 —Punjab, Pakistan— TTP attacks pilgrims at an 11th-century Sufi shrine in Lahore,killingat least 13, including at least one child, and injuring 21 others.
May 8 —Ghazni, Afghanistan— Taliban ambushes military convoy in the Qarabagh district,killingthree police officers and wounding two others.
May 9 —Wajir, Kenya— Al-Qaeda’s East Africa affiliate al-Shabaab claims attack on security forces near the border with Somalia,killingat least one soldier.
May 9 —Saladin, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadis target grain silo in the town of Shirqat,killingone guard.
May 9 —Nineveh, Iraq— ISISkillsa family of eight in Mosul, including the couple and their six children.
May 9 —Fezzan, Libya— SuspectedISISjihadiskilltwo and kidnapped a third person from the town of Ghadduwah.
May 9 —Baghdad, Iraq— ISIS suicide bomberkillseight, wounds 15 others as they broke their Ramadan fast at the Jamila market.
May 10 —Mopti, Mali— Suspected al-Qaeda jihadiskillfour civilians, wound two others at the market in the town of Bandiagara.
May 10 —Badghis, Afghanistan— Taliban targets two outposts,killing25 security personnel and wounding 11 others in Bala Murghab district.
May 10 —Borno, Nigeria— ISIS West Africakills11 troops in the town of Gajiganna.
May 10 —Bari, Somalia—SuspectedISISwoundstenin a failed assassination attempt against a local judge in the port city of Bosaso.
May 10 —Balkh, Afghanistan— Taliban attacks army outpost in Balkh District, killing one local police officer and wounding four soldiers and a police officer.
May 11 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haramattacksthe Moranti village near Maiduguri, leaving nine dead, at least one wounded, and four missings.
May 11 —Baghdad, Iraq— Suspected ISIS-linked bomb blastkillsone child, wounds two others in the Jisr Diyala neighborhood located in the southern part of the capital.
May 11 —Nangarhar, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban terroristskilldeputy intelligence director for the Afghan National Police (ANP) in the Kama district.
May 11 —Takhar, Afghanistan —Talibankillsfour police officers and wounds five others in a security outpost in Khwaja Ghar District.
May 11 —Sar-i-Pul, Afghanistan — Talibankillsone police officer in Sancharak District,
May 11 —Nangarhar, Afghanistan— Taliban ambushes andkillsa police officer as he drove home in the Kama District.
May 11 —Samangan, Afghanistan— Taliban narco-jihadiskillthree pro-Kabul militiamen in Khuram Ao Sarbagh district.
May 11 —Samangan, Afghanistan— Taliban rocket attackkillsfive civilians, including women, and wounds ten others in Dara-i-Suf Payan district.
May 12 —Mogadishu, Somalia—Al-ShabaabkillsTurkish civil engineer.
May 12 —Baghlan, Afghanistan— Suspected Taliban jihadiskillprovince’s deputy intelligence director and injure an intelligence officer in the Dushi district.
May 12 —Hama, Syria— Suspected former al-Qaeda affiliate Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS)firesa rocket into Christian-majority town of Suqaylabiyah, killing five, including four children and a woman, and injuring six other children.
May 12 —Sanmatenga, Burkina Faso— Unknown jihadis attack Catholic church, set it ablaze, andkillsix, including the priest.
May 12 —Paktika, Afghanistan— Hundreds of Taliban jihadis storm outposts in the districts of Mata Khan and Zurmat,killing13 police officers and wounding 19 others.
May 12 —Wardak, Afghanistan— Taliban targets members of the Shiite Hazara community in the Hesa-e-Dowom-e-Behsod district,leaving5 civilians dead, 12 others wounded, and five missings.
May 13 —Baghlan, Afghanistan— Suspected Talibanshootsteacher in Nahren district.
May 13 —Borno, Nigeria— Improvised explosive device (IED) planted by Boko Haram on a road in Damboa district killed three Nigerian troops, including a commander, and wounded four others.
May 13 —Nangarhar, Afghanistan— ISIS carries out three explosions in its main South Asia stronghold that rocked the provincial capital of Jalalabad,killing9 and wounding more than 30 others.
May 13 —Diyala, Iraq— ISISkillsfather and son.
May 13 —Balochistan, Pakistan— Pakistani Taliban, or TTP, targeted a police vehicle near a mosque with an improvised bomb rigged to a motorcycle,killingfour and wounding 11 in the provincial capital of Quetta.
May 13 —Hama, Syria— Al-Qaeda affiliateHTS, under siege by Syrian regime forces, suspected of firing more rockets into Christian-majority town of Suqaylabiyah,killingone child.
May 13 —Yatenga, Burkina Faso— Unknown jihadiskilledfour Catholics, burned Virgin Mary during a procession in the town ofOuahigouyain the Muslim-majority nation.
May 13 —Sar-i-Pul, Afghanistan— Talibankillsseven pro-Kabul militiamen, wounds six, and kidnaps three others in the provincial capital of Sar-i-Pul city.
May 13 —Badakhshan, Afghanistan— Talibankillsfour ANDSF troops, including commander, and wounds one other in  Shahri Buzurg district.
May 14 —Nayrab Camp, Syria— Suspected members of al-Qaeda affiliate HTS lobbed missiles into a Syrian-regime held camp for displaced people in Aleppo province,killingat least 6 andwoundingat least 11 others, includingchildren, as they broke their Ramadan fast.
May 14 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Improvised explosive device (IED) attached to a vehiclekilleda police officer in the Taliban birthplace and wounded another.
May 14 —Baghlan, Afghanistan— Unknown terrorists attached IED to a vehicle,killingone civilian and wounding three others.
May 14 —Jowzjan, Afghanistan— Talibankillsone pro-government militiaman and wounds six others in Qarqin district.
May 14 —Tillaberi, Niger– ISISkills28 soldiers andwoundsat least two near the Mali border.
May 14 —Ghor, Afghanistan— Talibankillsshopkeeper inDolina district.
May 14 —Mogadishu, Somalia— Al-Shabaab suicide bomberkillsfour office workers and injures at least nine other civilians in the Warta Nabadda district.
May 15 —Paktia, Afghanistan— TalibankillsANDSF soldier and wounds two others.
May 15 —Kandahar, Afghanistan— Unknown terrorists in the Taliban birthplace of Kandahar provincekilla police officer in charge of the provincial capital.
May 15 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISISkillstwo policemen and wounds another in the town of al-Rashad.
May 15 —Kirkuk, Iraq— ISISkillsfour federal policemen near the town of Hawijah.
May 16 —Zabul, Afghanistan— Talibankillssix Afghan National Defense and Security Forces (ANDSF) and wounds six others in attacks on two military checkpoints in Shamulzayi district.
May 16 —Zabul, Afghanistan— Talibankillsthree police officers, wounds two others in the provincial capital.
May 16 —Kabul, Afghanistan— Unknown jihadiskillfour members of the Public Protection Forces in the outskirts of the Afghan capital.
May 16 —Adamawa, Nigeria— Boko Haram jihadismassacrefive people, including farmers and fishermen, in the Madagali district.
May 16 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haram terroristsmassacrenine people, including farmers and fishermen, in the Maichulmuri village.
May 16 —Lake Chad, Chad— Boko Haramkills13 villagers in the village of Ceilia.
May 16 —Manbij, Syria— Suspected ISIS jihadis carry out suicide vehicle-borne improvised explosive device (SVBIED) attack,killsone U.S.-backed Kurdish fighter andinjuringten civilians.
May 17 —Diyala, Iraq— Suspected ISIS jihadiskilledtwo civilians, including a teacher and an elderly man in the district of Khanaqin.
May 18 —Fezzan, Libya— Suspected ISIS jihadiskilltwo guards and a soldier and kidnap four other people at the Zella oilfield.
May 18 —Herat, Afghanistan— Suspected Talibankillsfive children, wounds 20 other civilians in the main the market of Obe district.
May 18 —Takhar, Afghanistan— Talibankillsnine militiamen and wounds seven in Rustaq district.
May 18 —Helmand, Afghanistan— Taliban roadside bombkillstwo police officers and injures two others in Washer district.
May 18 —Borno, Nigeria— Boko Haram attacks refugee camp,killingtwo people and injuring 12 others.
May 19 —Giza, Egypt— Suspected ISIS jihadis target a tourist bus with a bomb,injuring17.
May 19 —Diyala, Iraq— Suspected ISIS terrorists,killseven Baghdad-sanctioned PMF troops and injures 26 others.
May 19 —Timbuktu, Mali— Suspected jihadiskillone United Nations peacekeeper soldier and wound six others.
Pleaselet us knowif you're having issues with commenting.




Copyright © 2024 Breitbart

Title: ISIS in Khorasan and Hind: Pakistan and the Next Three Years | VT Foreign Policy
PR and psy-ops experts know that the best way to “skunk” a message is to put it in the mouth of an unappealing spokesperson. That’s why the bankster cabal that owns the West, terrified by Islam’s prohibition of usury, has taken the notion of unifying the Muslim-majority countries into a single Caliphate—a project supported by two-thirds of the world’s Muslims—and affixed it to the flag of their own brutal, drug-addled mercenaries.
The banksters have succeeding in sowing chaos throughout the Muslim East. But the Caliphate project, and the eventual destruction of the Empire of Usury, won’t go away.
-Kevin Barrett,VT Editor
by Sabtain Ahmed Dar
“The crux of global war on terrorism is that intelligence agencies such as CIA, MI6 and Mossad have taken the peaceful idea of the Caliphate from Islam and deceptively handed it over to their mercenaries (Kharijites) to frame it as ‘Terrorism’. This strategy is aimed initially to turn the world against Islam and use Kharijites as a pretext to further destabilize and disintegrate the last remaining strong Muslim nation-states to enhance the security of Israel”.
On 11thand 15thof May, 2019 ISIS declared its provinces inside India and Pakistan after it claimed attacks in Indian occupied Kashmir and Baluchistan, Pakistan. According toSITE Intelligence Group, ISIS has been involved in operations inside Afghanistan since 2015. Why would the Israeli group SITE become the first group to release ISIS footage? What is their larger agenda? Why are they in Afghanistan and claiming provinces inside India and Pakistan? How will the future of South Asia look with rise of ISIS in Khorasan and Hind? What are the strategic implications and impact on Pakistan? How are they and their weapons being transported from Iraq and Syria to Afghanistan? What should be done to maintain the current map of South Asia? As there is no precedent to analyze the role of deception and secrecy in International Relations to find clarity about reality, the following comprehensive analysis ks based on an investigative and predictive approach to explaining these research questions.
ISIS: Israeli Secret Intelligence Service
Firstly, this issue cannot be understood by any means if one is not aware who created ISIS and how they are being sophisticatedly armed and funded to attain strategic objectives through hybrid warfare. According to a report citing former US National Security Agency officer and whistleblowerEdward Snowdenthe actual name of the head of the so-called Islamic State Abu Bakar Al-Baghdadi is Elliot Shimon who is a trained Mossad agent working in coordination with the U.S Secret Service, British Intelligence and Israeli Mossad.
According toIranian Intelligence“the plan is to get into the military and civilian heart of the countries that are declared as a threat to Israel in order to destroy to facilitate thereafter, the takeover by the Zionist state on the entire area of the Middle East in order to establish Greater Israel”. The Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) is one of sixteen US military intelligence agencies. A leaked document obtained byJudicial Watchcontains following information, the DIA wrote on 12thAugust, 2012 that: “there is the possibility of establishing a declared or undeclared Salafist Principality in eastern Syria, and this is exactly what the supporting powers to the opposition want, in order to isolate the Syrian regime”.
It should be noted here that this was written before ISIS came on to the world stage. Clearly ISIS is a well-orchestrated controlled non-state group which is at the center of US-Israeli strategy of hybrid warfare in the Middle East. One of the empirical indicators is that ISIS has never attacked the state of Israel. Jerusalem throughout 1400 years history of Islam has remained at the center-stage in the Caliphate. Why ISIS never launched operations against the Zionist regime of Israel? The evidence suggests that ISIS is indeed an “Israel Secret Intelligence Service”which is using the “Kharijite Ideology” against the Muslim nation-states to complete its “Greater Israel Project”.
Islam and ISIS: Why ISIS does not represent Islam?
Islam denounces the evil ideology of terrorism and religious extremism and teaches the message of peace and religious tolerance. The Quran says that you wage war in response to aggression, but even when aggression is committed against you, you do not respond with warfare unless and until you have explored and exhausted all possible peaceful means of resolving the problem. That is real Islam which comes from Quran and Prophet Muhammad (P.B.U.H). Does ISIS talks about peaceful means? No, this is why ISIS does not and will never represent true Islam. When Muslims wage war against aggression, if the enemy is inclined to peace (which means giving up aggression) then Muslims must also reciprocate and incline to peace. Does ISIS incline to peace? No, thus ISIS does not represent Islam and Muslims. They are the ones who are spreading terrorism around the globe. So who are these people if they do not represent Islam and Muslims? Are they even Muslims or part of Islam? What has Islam to say on the issue of terrorism?
Prophet Muhammad (P.B.U.H) has referred to them as Kharijites (foreign to Islam). They have existed since the very early period of Islam and they will continue to cause strife in the Muslim nation and the rest of the world until the end of time when they will join forces with the False Messiah (Al-dajjāl or Anti-Christ in Christianity). True Muslims have mercy upon the entire creation, including unbelievers and idolaters, but the Kharijites have no mercy for those outside their group. They declare other Muslims to be unbelievers by misinterpreting and misapplying the verses of the Quran. The Kharijites believe their opinions regarding leadership, government, politics, and the Sharia are the only valid opinions in Islam and whoever disagrees with them becomes an unbeliever. But the truth is that right to “Jihad Bil Saif (sword)” is in the hands of the national armies of the Muslim nation-states and not the non-state actors.
ISIS-K: The Kharijites of Khorasan
The official position of Pakistan on ISIS is plain and clear; there is no footprint of ISIS in Pakistan.  But why is ISIS claiming responsibility for terrorist attacks inside Pakistan? Firstly, Pakistan’s threat analysis since 2001 clearly suggests that US global war on terror is a hoax. In reality, it is a modern war against the Muslim world which is aimed at redrawing the map of theGreater Middle Eastto enhance the security of the state of Israel. Pakistan is the only Muslim country that possesses nuclear weapons and can deter the state of Israel. Thus, the denuclearization of Pakistan through fifth generation warfare is essential for Israel. Interestingly, five years ago on May, 2014Obama announcedthat US military operations in Afghanistan would end in December, 2014. Pakistan’s threat analysis was clearly suggesting that this decision was merely for show and if they really withdrew from Afghanistan then they would replace their army with mercenaries to continue subversion against the Afghan Taliban and against Pakistan.
Secondly, it is to the credit of Pakistan’s armed forces and intelligence agencies that mercenaries such as “Tahreek-e-Taliban Pakistan” (TTP) and its inner and outer circles were completely thwarted through intelligence based operations. But the United States, India and Israel through their rogue intelligence agencies have sinfully re-branded TTP as ISIS-K to continue their strategy of hybrid war against Afghan Taliban and Pakistan. Pakistan’s leading defense analyst Zaid Hamid has recentlyspeculatedthat “Abu Bakar Al-Baghdadi might be in Afghanistan already” which is an alarming situation for the security of Pakistan. There are plausible explanations for this phenomenon as there arereportson how mercenaries and weapons from Iraq and Syria were transported to Afghanistan through US coalition mystery helicopters.
Thirdly, ISIS is using “ISIS-K” acronym, now what does “K” represents? It represents “Khorasan”. Khorasan was the territory which during the lifetime of Prophet Muhammad (S.A.W) comprised what we today know as Afghanistan, Pakistan (excluding Punjab and Sindh provinces) and Northern Iran. This territory was identified through a research which was conducted by Pakistan’s eminent Islamic scholar Dr. Israr Ahmed. ISIS-K is claiming that in an attempt to restore Khorasan province for its Caliphate they are declaring Afghanistan and Pakistan regimes as “Murtids” (non-Muslims) and it is a religious obligation to wage war against these nation-states. The endgame of ISIS-K is to weaken the Afghan Taliban through guerilla warfare and launch operations against Pakistan from Afghanistan.
ISIS-H: The Kharijites of Hind
India has been using the US-Israeli global model of war on terror since 2001 in Kashmir. The strategy was to frame the efforts of Kashmiri freedom fighters” as “terrorism”. Now with the rise of Hinduvta mission and the quest of RSS, BJP and Bajrang Dal (etc.) to restore their former territories ofAkhand Bharat(Hind) (Afghanistan, Pakistan, Kashmir, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, Maldives etc.) they have launched this project in South Asia. The author, Sabtain Ahmed Dar wrote an investigative report on the“Sri Lanka Bombings”in which hundreds of innocent Christians were killed. This article concluded that India was involved in the attack and through this false flag has officially launched its Hinduvta project in South Asia by using US-Israel’s global model of war on terror to frame Muslims as terrorists. India will continue to use its proxies such as TTP and rebrand it as “ISIS-H” (H for Hind) to create more false flags inside India to continue the war against Islam and Pakistan—just as they have rebranded TTP in Afghanistan as ISIS-K to fight the Afghan Taliban.
Pakistan and the Next Three Years
Firstly, the US Army and its coalition are already in Afghanistan, and its Navy in the Persian Gulf, to threaten Iran, while the Indian navy is already patrolling around in the Arabian Sea. Pakistan cannot afford to take sides in the conflict between Iran and US. This may actually turn out to be a set up against Pakistan, because if Pakistan choose to side with Iran, it will provide a chance for its adversaries to threaten Pakistan. Pakistan should remain neutral in all conflicts led by the US-Israel axis in the Muslim world to prevent ethno-sectarian conflicts.
Secondly, Pakistan’s strategists have only engaged China in the economic domain. It is my assessment that if they allow Chinese military or naval bases in Pakistan it will open new chapters of conflict between Pakistan and US. And in case of any military confrontation between China and United States, Pakistan is likely to become “the Poland of South Asia” in between the capitalists and the communists. Pakistan’s policy makers should also ask: does Pakistan trust “Communist China” in a war?
Thirdly, a military intervention by Russia inside Afghanistan could also prove to be a disaster for Pakistan’s foreign policy towards Afghanistan. Why? It would allow the United States and its coalition to perpetuate its operations inside Afghanistan. A recent report says “an ISIS offshoot has amassed around 5,000 militants in northern Afghanistan on the border of post-Soviet republics of Central Asia”. It is highly likely that the US through its proxy warfare is trying to bluff Russian military intervention inside Afghanistan for the second time in the history. The plan is plain and clear, the Zionists want to make Afghanistan “the Syria of South Asia”.
Fourthly, there will no peace in South Asia as long as India and its proxies are active in Afghanistan. In order to defeat India in Afghanistan, Pakistan must officially recognize the reality of the Afghan Taliban. The Afghan Taliban is the only force that can crush India inside Afghanistan.
Fifthly, Pakistan needs to eliminate anti-state and foreign funded movements such asPashtun Tahafuz Movement(PTM). My threat analysis is clearly suggesting that in the future ISIS-K will try to form a political alliance with PTM secretly to support its terrorist operations against the Pakistan Army in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Thus, there is a high possibility that ISIS-K may become PTM’s military wing in the coming weeks.
Lastly, there is a threat to the freedom of movement of Kashmiris because RAW is rebranding the national movement of Kashmiri freedom fighters as the “Kharijite Movement”. This is the prime reason they have launched ISIS-H project inside South Asia. Similarly, RAW backed ISIS-H is likely to be used against the Sikhs in Punjab to destroy theKhalistan Movementby framing Muslims and Pakistanis as terrorists. The same model can be applied to Maoists, Naxalites and Tamils to protect the national interests of India. Pakistan needs to support the national movements and eliminate all Kharijite movements to balance the hybrid war against India.
If ISIS is not crushed in Afghanistan it will turn Muslims into rebels against the writ of their respective nation-states. This is exactly what Israel has desired for two decades. This hybrid strategy will simultaneously serve the CIA-Mossad nexus for the greater Israel project in the Middle East and RAW for its Hinduvta project in the South Asia. Thus, Afghanistan, Iran and Pakistan are standing at the crossroads of their history and great trials are ahead among them. A policy tightly knit with political, diplomatic and military wisdom is required if Pakistan wants to save the current map of South Asia.
Sabtain Ahmed Dar is currently doing M.Phil. in International Relations from the department of Political Science, Punjab University, Pakistan. He specializes in Pakistan affairs and geopolitics, specifically the US strategy in the Middle East and South Asia.

Dr. Kevin Barrett, a Ph.D. Arabist-Islamologist is one of America’s best-known critics of the War on Terror.
He is the host ofTRUTH JIHAD RADIO; a hard-driving weekly radio show funded by listener subscriptions atSubstackand the weekly news roundupFALSE FLAG WEEKLY NEWS (FFWN).
He also has appeared many times on Fox, CNN, PBS, and other broadcast outlets, and has inspired feature stories and op-eds in the New York Times, the Christian Science Monitor, the Chicago Tribune, and other leading publications.
Dr. Barrett has taught at colleges and universities in San Francisco, Paris, and Wisconsin; where he ran for Congress in 2008. He currently works as a nonprofit organizer, author, and talk radio host.
Archived Articles (2004-2016)

Title: Afghanistan: A War in Crisis
Photo: JOHN D MCHUGH/AFP/Getty Images
ReportbyAnthony H. Cordesman
Published September 4, 2019
The U.S, has announced a potential peace agreement with the Taliban in Afghanistan. Many of the details are still secret or undecided, and the Administration has sent mixed signals about the timing and scale of U.S. force cuts. President Trump announced shortly before reports the U.S. had agreed to the basic structure of a peace deal that he would cut U.S. forces.
He described these cuts as follows in an interview on Fox News on 29 August, “we're going down to 8,600 and then we make a determination from there as to what happens. We'll make a determination, but we're going down to 8,600, we're bringing it down. We have it very well controlled. You know, we're not fighting a war over there, we're just policeman over there. We could win that war so fast — if I wanted to kill 10 million people, Brian, which I don't. I'm not looking to kill a big portion of that country. I'm not looking to do that.”
On September 2nd, in the middle of new Taliban attacks, the U.S announced a draft peace agreement between the United States and the Taliban that withdraws 5,400 U.S. troops from five bases in Afghanistan within five months – or 135 days – after the deal was signed. U.S. peace envoy Zalmay Khalilzad described the proposed plan in a broadcast on TOLO News as “an agreement with the Taliban in principle” although he cautioned that “it is not final until the president of the United States also agrees to it.” He stated that such a withdrawal would depend on the Taliban meeting the terms of the agreement, ending its ties to Al-Qaida, and provide clear guarantees to support counterterrorism activities.
He also made it clear that the Afghan government had been briefed but not given copies of the draft agreement or played a major role in shaping it: “It is our (a U.S.) agreement with the Taliban, not their (the Afghan government) agreement with the Taliban. No reference was made to the fact that Afghanistan planned to hold a Presidential election on September 28th, what role the Taliban was expected to play in the government in the future, and how the agreement with the Taliban could be reconciled with the results of the Afghan election.
Presumably, far more details will become apparent with time, but it is all too clear that any peace agreement will have to be a highly uncertain option, and it is far from clear what guarantees the U.S. will make to secure it, or what levels of military and civil aid it will pledge. Earlier media reports indicated that the Administration was considering a full withdrawal within a year of a ceasefire, but no report has had any official confirmation.
It is also unclear that the U.S. has the option of staying in Afghanistan without providing open-ended military and financial support. Much depends on current trends in the war, and the extent to which the Afghan Government or the Taliban are winning control and influence over the country, and a detailed review of the fighting shows that it is the Taliban that is making progress even while the Afghan forces still have major U.S. combat air, U.S. train and assist, and U.S. land combat support from elite force elements.
Much depends on the degree to which the Afghan government forces can stand on their own if a peace negotiation leads to the withdrawal of U.S. and Resolute support forces, or if the U.S. makes major further force cuts. At present, it seems doubtful that Afghan force can survive if the Taliban should use the peace process to secure a U.S. withdrawal and then turn on the Afghan government.
At the same time, the civil sector is weak and making marginal progress at best. The Afghan government remains weak and divided, the economy and government budget are heavily dependent on outside aid, and efforts to make aid conditional on Afghan performance has so far had only limited success.
The end result is that both peace and any open-ended effort to stay are both likely to be bad options, and the U.S. will be forced to choose between them. If the peace process should fail, it is doubtful that Afghan forces can survive without ongoing U.S. combat air support, help from U.S. elite forces, and forward deployed security assistance brigades indefinitely.
It is equally uncertain that even if Afghanistan can unite around some future President, that it can survive its gross failures in governance, the rule of law, and economic development without equally indefinite billions of dollars in U.S. civil aid. A detailed analysis of the civil side of the war shows that Afghanistan is still the equivalent of a failed state.
The Burke Chair at CSIS has updated and expanded a report that uses official reports, maps, and graphics to examine Afghan military and civil progress, or the lack of it, in full detail. It draws on official reporting by the Resolute Support Command, the Office of the Secretary of Defense (1225 Report), the Lead Inspector General for Overseas Contingency Operations (LIG-OCO), the Special Inspector General for Afghan Reconstruction (SIGAR), and the United Nations. At the same time, it draws upon a variety of outside sources that raise serious questions about the accuracy of some of this official reporting.
The report is entitledAfghanistan: A War in Crisis. It is available on the CSIS web site athttps://csis-prod.s3.amazonaws.com/s3fs-public/publication/190904_Progress-Afghanistan.pdf. The key military portions of the report are available as a separate reporthere. The civil portions are availablehere.
The key sections of the full report include:

Anthony H. Cordesman holds the Arleigh A. Burke chair in Strategy at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C. He has served as a consultant on Afghanistan to the United States Department of Defense and the United States Department of State.

Center for Strategic and International Studies1616 Rhode Island Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20036
Tel: 202.887.0200Fax: 202.775.3199
SeeMedia Pagefor more interview, contact, and citation details.
©2024 Center for Strategic & International Studies. All Rights Reserved.

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:45Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Can Afghanistan Be Saved? – In  Saner  Thought
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address:
Sign me up!

The US went to Afghanistan after the cowardly attacks of 9/11 to get the mastermind of the attacks…..we failed originally but we stayed to save Afghanistan from the brutality of the Taleban…..to be honest…we are failing at that attempt as well.
There are peace talks these days between the government of Afghanistan and the Taleban and the US is playing a minor role (or so we are told)…..but all indications are that the US wants peace much more than the Afghans…..
I recently read that only alittle over halfof Americans are even aware the U.S. is, after 17 years, still fighting a war in Afghanistan. Since the beginning of the war, the U.S. has spent more than$900 billion dollarsin military and civilian support. This does not include the human toll of those killed and the tens of thousands wounded.
Unfortunately, there is little to show for all this expense.
Yes, Afghanistan has an army, but without U.S. forces they would quickly succumb to the Taliban, who todaycontrol more than halfof the country. On the civilian side, the Afghan government, despite proven reserves of valuable minerals including lithium and rare earth (estimates are over a trillion dollars worth) remains dependent upon a constant stream of donor dollars.
https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2019/04/27/afghanistan-trump-taliban-opium-corruption-column/3589562002/
Basically we Americans are trying to save Afghans from themselves….and in the long run (if that benchmark has not been met yet) do Afghans want to be “saved”?
After nearly two decades of bloodshed, meaningful progress is finally being made towards a conclusion of the war in Afghanistan. Negotiations with the Taliban in Qatar haveachievedan uncommon consistency. On the domestic front, a bipartisanresolutionmatching the Taliban’s proposedtimelinehas emerged in the U.S. Senate. The main voices opposing peace originate from within the Pentagon and the Afghan National Unity Government. In a departure from theirconstitutionallymandated subordinate role, top generals arecallingfor yet another extension on murky grounds. Afghan president Ashraf Ghani has also urged against a timely withdraw,claimingthat the government in Kabul lacks the strength required for independence. Whether byincompetenceorcorruption, neither contingent should have the credibility to dictate the plan for removing U.S. forces from Afghanistan.
TheconditionsWashington and Kabul point to as requirements for a withdraw cannot be met. The National Unity Government does not represent apluralityof the Afghan people, and with formerwarlordsin its ranks, it will continue to lack the requisite legitimacy to govern. In spite of the nearly$900billion dedicated to reconstruction and governance efforts since 2001, Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) suffer frominfiltration,ineptitude, andhighcasualty rates. It is unclear how additional years, lives, and billions of dollars will guide Afghanistan toward a stable future. The peace talks in Doha represent gradual yet genuine progress, and they warrant all the support Washington can muster. Alternatives to this current opportunity for peace represent a continuation of the same failed strategies toward an even more shameful, inevitable departure.
https://nationalinterest.org/blog/middle-east-watch/america-cannot-save-afghanistan-55142
If Afghanistan cannot be saved then why must the US continue to pour cash and blood into the country?
There is a question for your next president or supreme leader (the title may change by next election.
I suppose it depends on what we think of as ‘saved’. If we mean the removal of the Taliban, and a return to a society of ‘western values’, then that is a lost cause, for sure.Best wishes, Pete.
The removal of the Taleban will not remove the religious extremism I fear….so no it cannot be saved….chuq
The vast majority Afghans have no real concept of, nor desire for, a central government. Our efforts have zero chance of meeting even our most optimistic endstate.
Thanx for your insights….kinda what I have been saying……chuq

Δ
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.Learn how your comment data is processed.

Title: India in Afghanistan After the Soviet Withdrawal – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
India’s tough experience in post-1989 Afghanistan could hold lessons for weathering a U.S. troop withdrawal.
A Soviet tank regimental commander gestures to Afghan leader Najibullah during ceremonial limited military withdrawal ceremonies in Shindand, Afghanistan on Oct. 25, 1986.
In 1989, Soviet forces, India’s ally in Afghanistan, made a full withdrawal from the country and left India in a precarious position. Thirty years down the line, India is now facing a similar situation — the possibility of a complete withdrawal of U.S. forces, under whose security umbrella India had built its presence in Afghanistan through largely developmental investment and soft power initiatives.
The Soviet intervention in Afghanistan earlier in 1979 had put India in a tough spot. While India was averse to the idea of a superpower meddling in the domestic affairs of a small independent country, New Delhi was equivocal in condemning the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. In theUN debatesduring an emergency special session, India in fact broke ranks with its nonalignment partners and openly supported the Soviet position. India’s strong relations with the Soviet Union and Cold War geopolitics, where the United States alongside India’s rival Pakistan was propping up the Afghan resistance, were instrumental in prodding India to take the Soviet side in Afghanistan.
Soviet Withdrawal and India-Najibullah Bonhomie
In the late 1980s, as the war simmered in Afghanistan, India looked to play a key role in mediating peace between various parties. It also wanted to postpone or slowdown the process of Soviet withdrawal before the country had stabilized. But with the situation being untenable, Mikhail Gorbachev ultimately ordered the Soviet troops to withdraw. Before the complete withdrawal, the Soviets installed Mohammed Najibullah, a member of the Parcham faction of the People’s Democratic Party of Afghanistan (PDPA) and former head of the dreaded KGB-influenced Afghan intelligence agency KhAD, as the head of the Kabul government. Moscow hoped the strongman would be able to reconcile with the recalcitrant rebel leaders and effect a peace settlement between the various Afghan factions. India was supportive of Najibullah, in whom New Delhi saw a strong Afghan leader who was wary of the growing Pakistani influence in Afghanistan. It is alleged that KhAD, through its contacts in Pashtun regions of Pakistan, helped increaseIndia’s covert profile.
Moreover, then-Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and Najibullah shared a close personal bond. The aftermath of Soviet withdrawal and the unsteady support coming from Moscow only strengthened India’s ties with Najibullah as their relations became more symbiotic.
However, Najibullah, as a former intelligence head of the infamous KhAD and a pro-Soviet figure, didn’t enjoy much popular support among the masses and in the absence of Soviet ground forces it was difficult, if not impossible, to push back the Mujahideen’s onslaught. India, showing tremendous commitment to Najibullah, threw its lot in with the pro-Soviet regime, but New Delhi didn’t have the wherewithal to singlehandedly safeguard the Najibullah government. Thus when Najibullah’s government fell, India was without any “friends” in Afghanistan – on the contrary, the Mujahideen government of Burhanuddin Rabbani and other war lords had a negative view of India, given its support for the pro-Soviet regime.
Reaching out to theMujahideens and the Rise of the Taliban
Pakistan, having helped in setting up the (largely dysfunctional) Mujahideen government afterplaying the role of the key mediatorin the Peshawar Accords of 1992, had brought about a favorable balance of power for itself in Afghanistan. To ameliorate India’s situation in Afghanistan, New Delhi under the Narasimha Rao government brought changes to India’s Afghan strategy and started reaching out to all the Mujahideen factions in Afghanistan, irrespective of their ideology or relations with Pakistan. It was decided, as formerIndian diplomat M.K. Bhadrakumar later put it, that India should deal “strictly with the government in Kabul, no matter its proximity with Pakistan or its security agencies” and “deal with whosoever was in power in Kabul and focus … on cultivating a friendly government that was sensitive to India’s vital interests and core concerns.” Rao’s policy on Afghanistan also focused on building people-to-people relations and winning goodwill in the country through contributing “towards Afghanistan’s economic welfare.”
Though it has beenclaimedthat a few Mujahideen commanders maintained covert ties with the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), India’s intelligence agency, even during the Soviet era, under Rao’s leadership, India’s diplomat and bureaucrats, who were previously in the firm embrace of Najibullah, soon started building overt and tangible relationships with Mujahideen leaders. Medical and humanitarian supplies were provided to key war lords. Surprisingly the Mujahideen leadership was not averse to Indian outreach.  Rabbani, the then-president of the Mujahideen government, in 1992 made it clear that the Afghan Mujahideen would not look to interfere in the Kashmir issue. He hadsaid, “We hope the Kashmir issue is resolved on the basis of UN resolutions and talks and negotiations.” Good relations with India benefited Mujahideen leaders not only as a source of aid and supplies but, to some leaders, also as a counterweight to balance their overdependence on Pakistan.
When in the midst of intra-Mujahideen fighting a little-known militia called the Taliban reared its head, Indian policymakers saw it as a fringe group and a lesser player in the overall fratricidal conflict in Afghanistan. In 1994, when theTaliban forces capturedthe strategic border post of Spin Boldak and made significant advances with direct Pakistani help, Indian strategists did not react in haste. Intel about the Taliban mostly came to Indian intelligence through friendlyMujahideen contacts. India had no engagement with the Taliban directly and had no deep understanding of their prowess and sway over the Pashtuns, who were suffering from instability and brutality under Mujahideen war lords. So when in 1996 Taliban forces marched victoriously onto the streets of Kabul, it was a massive shock for India.
The Northern Alliance and India’s Efforts at Clinging on to Afghanistan
India, like most of the world, was averse to the Taliban, which it saw as a radical extremist Islamic organization with a strong misogynistic mold. It endorsed UN Security Council Resolution 1076, which censured Taliban for its severe violations of human and women’s rights. Further, India chose not to recognize the Taliban regime. In that moment of crisis, India had almost zero clout in the vast majority of areas in Afghanistan that were ruled by the Taliban and New Delhi instead sought to build up relations with the Northern Alliance (United Front), which still controlled a small slice of the country. It has been credibly reported that India providedcovert helpto the forces of the Northern Alliance in their fight against the Taliban. India’s airbase at Farkhor in Tajikistan was critically important in delivering goods to the group.
Though India did not recognize the Taliban regime and supported their rivals in the north of the country, the Taliban did not take overtly anti-India positions, nor did it engage in anti-India rhetoric. In 1999, when a hijacked Indian Airlines plane was taken to Kandahar, the Indian government was forced to open talks with the Taliban. Despite the safe return of Indian passengers from Afghanistan, after the release of three Indian-held terrorists, it was alleged that the Taliban took afavorable position toward Pakistanin the entire episode. While India had had no formal contact with the Taliban before the incident, Pakistan had solidified its patronizing relationship with the Taliban by then.
The tide shifted yet again in 2001. With the U.S.-led war on Taliban, India found its way back into Afghanistan. However, in the overall geopolitical calculations, Pakistan emerged as an all-important country due to its proximity to the Taliban heartland and its strong leverage over the militant group. Many times it has been alleged that, to cater to Pakistani wishes, India’s active involvement in Afghanistan has beendiscouraged– even though India and the United States share common goals and principles in relation to democracy and development in Afghanistan. In 2001, India was not invited to the Bonn conference, where the post-Taliban order in Afghanistan was discussed. Though eventually India joined as an observer and engaged in informal negotiations, it had to move its support from its old allies like Qanooni and Abdullah from the Northern Alliance to the United States’ favored Pashtun candidate, Hamid Karzai. In helping to bring about a consensus around the Pashtun leadership of Karzai, India also lost its existing clout among the non-Pashtun leadership, its friends in the erstwhile Northern Alliance.
The Pro-Pashtun Tilt
The Northern Alliance leadership disintegrated after Bonn and India looked for better ties with the Pashtuns. Despite India’s support, Karzai at the start of his tenure didn’t have afavorable outlookon India’s involvement in Afghanistan. Moreover, as suggested by author James Dobbins, the United States waskeen to keep India at a distance from Afghanistanso as to allay Pakistan’s fears. India faced a bleak picture, but then Karzai’s outreach to Pakistan failed. With the Taliban having made a comeback, Karzai looked toward better and closer ties with India.
India’s relation with Afghanistan improved markedly under the Karzai presidency and New Delhi invested heavily in developmental and infrastructural projects in Pashtun regions to forge better ties with the Pashtun people and their leadership. Under the Small Development Project Scheme, India has invested in adisproportionately high numbers of projects in the Pashtun-dominated areas of Afghanistanso as to reach out to the people living in these regions. The Durand line that divides the Pashtun heartland between Afghanistan and Pakistan lends the region great importance, as Pashtun linkages can lead to strong leverage across the border too. It is also vital for India to keep a strong presence in the Pashtun region as it links to the Greater Balochistan region. Doing so also keepsPakistan  wary over India’s  increasinglinkages with the Pashtun leaders and people.
In 2011, Afghanistan signed its first Strategic Partnership Agreement with India — after Karzai had rejected a similar offer from Pakistan. After Karzai’s term ended, though, India faced similar issues with his successor, Ashraf Ghani, who also reached out to Pakistan in hopes of bringing the Taliban to an Afghan-led negotiation. But when Ghani’s rapprochement to Pakistan failed to deliver, India again found itself in the good books of the leadership in Kabul.
Since 2001, India’s investment in Afghanistan has increased many folds. Apart from investing in developmental, educational, and capacity-building projects, India has also made a geostrategic outreach toward Afghanistan bylinking the Iranian port of Chabahar to Afghanistan through the Zaranj-Delaram road. Atripartite agreementto ease the exchange of goods from India to Afghanistan and vice versa through the Iranian port of Chabahar has been signed by India, Iran, and Afghanistan. India trains approximately 1,000 Afghan officers every year and has provided Mi-25 and Mi-35 helicopters along with 285 military vehicles to the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF). India’s engagement with Afghanistan has only increased over the years, but with the sixth round of Doha talks on peace settlement in Afghanistan currently underway, a total U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan may be imminent in the near future.
Are Talks With the Taliban a Possible Way Forward for India?
In a fragmented polity like Afghanistan, India has often based its engagement on one or a few particular factions and thus, due to the treacherous nature of domestic politics and strife, often risked losing its stakes in the country. This has changed significantly in the current scenario but India maintains a strong Pashtun tilt and still officially is not ready for talks with the Taliban.
In today’s Afghanistan, the Taliban form both the problem and the solution. The group has emerged as an ethno-nationalist force with various factions stitched together through tribal-ethnic allegiances rather than a mere Islamic extremist organization. There are groups and subfactions within the Taliban that do not view their overbearing dependence on Pakistan favorably.
The Taliban are players in Afghanistan and India needs to engage with them, even if only with the subfactions that may be motivated to accept the Afghan Constitution. Unlike the Taliban period, India may not avail itself of the full support of Iran and Russia, as both countries have had limited ties with the Taliban and their interests are not wholly congruent with India anymore. In a post-U.S. Afghanistan, India can safeguard its interests through an approach that is balanced, nuanced, and conciliatory in nature, but also moderately partisan when and if required. There are possibilities for India to build a stronger consensus among Afghan stakeholders (Pashtun and non-Pashtuns alike), through largely conciliatory approaches, to present a united front against the Taliban while simultaneously also engaging in or facilitating negotiations with the Taliban.
Avinandan Choudhury is a doctoral fellow in the department of Politics and International Studies in Pondicherry University.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: Are Pakistani Pashtuns turning against the military? – DW – 05/07/2019
Pakistan's military has accused a Pashtun civil rights movement of destabilizing the country at Afghanistan's behest. Rights groups say that the movement is being targeted for opposing military policy in Pashtun lands.
A new movement has sprung up in Pakistan's Pashtun-dominated northwestern areas. Its supporters, who are wary after decades of their region being used as a battleground, have taken on both jihadis and Pakistan's powerful military.
The Pashtun Tahafuz Movement (PTM) has gained considerable strength in the past two years, drawing tens of thousands of people to its protest rallies. Its supporters arecritical of the war on terror, which they say has ravaged Pashtun areas in both Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Last week, Major General Asif Ghafoor, a spokesman for the Pakistani military, accused the PTM leadership of working against the country. He alleged that the PTM is receiving money from Indian and Afghan intelligence agencies.
"Their time is up for the way they are playing into the hands of others," Ghafoor warned the PTM leadership in a press conference on April 29.
On Sunday, a police report was filed against PTM official and parliament member Ali Wazir and 11 other PTM activists for allegedly chanting slogans against the Pakistani state and the country's security forces.
"Speakers were inciting people against the army and attempted to undermine the country's security," the report said, adding that further investigations were underway.
Read more:A movement of millennials in Pakistan is dubbed the Pashtun Spring
Pashtun anger
The PTM demands an end to extra-judicial killings and arbitrary detentions of Pashtuns in the name of war on terror. It has struck a chord with thousands of Pashtuns. Supporters of the movement blame both the Pakistani military and Islamists for the destruction in their region
As the battle for Afghanistan continues, the Afghan and Pakistani Taliban, who Kabul and Washington say receive support from the Pakistani army and its Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) agency, control vast swathes of territory in the war-torn country.
On the Pakistani side, the tribal areas along the Afghan border continue to suffer due to Islamist activities and the security forces' operations that caused deaths and displacements on a large scale.
Speaking to DW, Manzoor Pashteen, the 26-year-old PTM founder, said the military's allegations against the PTM are "baseless and false."
"They want to put pressure on us so that we relinquish our demands," said Pashteen. "We are ready to negotiate with the state."
Pashteen said that he wants to take legal action against Pakistani general Ghafoor's accusations and "fight our case through constitutional means."
Read more:Malala's father: 'Pakistan's security policies need a paradigm shift'
The military generals, however, believe that the PTM is insensitive to the Pakistani army's "sacrifices" in the war against terror and militant groups.
"General Ghafoor's words and tone indicate a hardening line towards a few PTM leaders, after efforts by the state to undercut the group by restricting its public activities and forbidding media coverage of its protests," Michael Kugelman, a South Asia expert at the Washington-based Woodrow Wilson Center for Scholars, told DW.
"The military's stance amplifies what has been a rather confused state policy towards the PTM. The army's harsh words have often been accompanied by more conciliatory language, including some softer language from Pakistan's army chief after Ghafoor's press conference," Kugelman added.
United Pashtuns?
The Afghan government, which usually refrains from commenting on Pakistan's domestic politics, has praised Pashteen's campaign in the past. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani shared several tweets about the "Pashtun march" in February 2018, hoping that it would succeed in "uprooting and eradicating terrorism from the region."
The Pashtun issue has been a sensitive one for Pakistan since the South Asian country gained independence from British rule in 1947. With a large Pashtun population in both Afghanistan and Pakistan, the idea of an independent Pashtun-majority homeland baffled Pakistan right from the beginning. Some scholars say Pakistani authorities favored Islamization of the region to rein in the "Pashtunistan" movement, led by liberal and secular politicians and activists.
Read more:Why Pakistan associates terrorism with Pashtuns and Afghans
The PTM could be viewed by Islamabad as another such effort to unitePashtuns from both sides of the border, although the group hasn't said anything about it.
"Can the PTM unite Pashtuns across the Durand Line [Afghan-Pakistan border established by the British]? I think it is already doing it. Rallies have been staged in the Afghan city of Kandahar — the birthplace of the Taliban — Jalalabad city, and in Kabul in support of the PTM. Common Afghans are raising slogans of peace," Saleem Shah, an Islamabad-based researcher and activist, told DW.
But does the Afghan government's praise for the PTM mean that it is also funding the movement?
"The Afghans are only morally supporting the PTM because they know what the Pakistani military is doing in Pashtun-dominated areas. But the Afghan government does not provide any kind of financial support to the movement," Ghafoor Liwal, Afghanistan's former acting minister for borders and tribal affairs, told DW.
Zabi Sadat, a lecturer in Kabul, is of the view that Pakistani officials are trying to divert the attention from war atrocities by slamming peace movements like the PTM.
But some analysts say that Afghanistan's direct or indirect support to the PTM could be harmful for the movement.
"What Kabul is doing could backfire because Islamabad will use it as an excuse for its support for the Taliban," Yunas Fakur, a Kabul-based analyst, told DW.
Read more:Pakistan to build fence along disputed Afghan border
Army's 'sacrifices'
Despite its difference with the PTM leadership, the Pakistani military spokesperson said Monday that the state is trying to address the PTM's demands.
Asif Ghafoor said that many of their demands have already been met, including the clearing of landmines in the tribal areas. Some 101 soldiers lost their lives during the clearance operations, he said.
Supporters of the army say that the PTM leadership is not cooperating with the authorities and only want to make a fuss.
"The PTM is trying to defame Pakistan's military. Pahsteen actually does not want peace in the region — peace that the army has restored after much sacrifice," Akbar Ali, a resident of northwestern Kurram district, told DW.
Additional reporting by Masood Saifullah.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video


Title: What does Modi's reelection mean for regional rivals? – DW – 05/24/2019
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been reelected with an even bigger mandate than in 2014. Should China and Pakistan be worried about the future of relations with India under an emboldened Modi?
Many people in Pakistan were hoping that the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, would not return to power after the mammoth general elections that concluded on Thursday. There was a sense in Muslim-majority Pakistan that Modi's return would not augur well for ties between the two neighboring countries, as Modi in his first term had taken an aggressive stance against Islamabad. So the disappointment overModi's resounding election victorywas quite natural.
"Modi and his party believe in a Hindu nationalist philosophy, which is essentially anti-Muslim and anti-Pakistan," Bakare Najimdeen from the Islamabad-based Center for International Peace and Stability, told DW. "He managed to secure another term by raising national security slogans and he promised to continue with his tough line against Pakistan. So I do not think that he will change his policy toward Pakistan."
Read more:Opinion: Modi's election victory starts a new era for India
Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan, however, is hopeful that Modi's reelection would be helpful for the peace process between the two South Asian rivals. He believes that a powerful government in New Delhi can take strong decisions to resolve longstanding issues between India and Pakistan.
The two nations came close to a full-scale war in February after militants in India-administered Kashmir killed scores of paramilitary forces. Modi, like his predecessors, blamed Pakistani militants for the attack, but he went a step further and launched an airstrike against a "militant camp" on Pakistani soil.
Modi used the "surgical strikes" against Pakistan in his election campaign, trying to convince voters that he has what it takes to curb alleged Pakistani terror. But was it just election rhetoric, or will Modi now be flexible with Pakistan, considering he has been reelected prime minister with a bigger electoral mandate?
"BJP governments have reached out to Pakistan in the past. In 1999, former prime minister and BJP leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee signed the so-called Lahore Declaration with former premier Nawaz Sharif. So it wouldn't surprise me if Modi goes for peace again," Siegfried O Wolf, a senior researcher at the Brussels-based South Asia Democratic Forum, told DW.
Read more:How PM Modi changed the face of Indian foreign policy

In 2014, Modi invited former Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif to his inauguration, where the two leaders shook hands and pledged to improve bilateral ties. India-Pakistan relations remained stable until Sharif was ousted by the Supreme Court in a corruption case. Some analysts say that the Pakistani army was unhappy with Sharif's closeness to Modi and the former prime minister's insistence on a decisive action against jihadis.
"Much depends on Pakistan's willingness and ability to curtail cross-border attacks conducted by terrorists operating from Pakistani soil," Wolf said, adding that for good ties with New Delhi, Islamabad will have to cut ties with radical Islamist organizations and clerics who spread anti-Indian sentiments in the country.
Wolf, however, believes that Modi's reelection is a good omen for Pakistani Islamists, as they can now strengthen their "enemy India" narrative.
Read more:Nuclear fears abound after India-Pakistan military escalation
Modi and Kashmir
The main bone of contention between India and Pakistan remains the Kashmir dispute. Since 1989, Muslim insurgents have been fighting Indian forces in the Indian-administered part of Kashmir — a region of 12 million people, about 70% of whom are Muslim. India and Pakistan have fought two of their three wars since independence in 1947 over Kashmir, which they both claim in full but rule in part.
Modi and BJP are unlikely to budge on Kashmir. The Indian prime minister took a hard line in Kashmir during his first term, and experts say that his more powerful second term would be even stricter.
"After the landslide victory in elections, the BJP is unlikely to give any space to Pakistan on Kashmir," Talat Bhat, a Sweden-based documentary filmmaker and Kashmiri activist, told DW. "Much also depends how Indian security forces operate in Kashmir. Will Modi, in his second term, give some political space to Kashmiris for peaceful dissent? Or will he use the same aggressive strategy that has resulted in more violence in the valley? We'll find out," Bhat added.
But analyst Wolf is of the view that Modi's domestic policies in Kashmir will largely be determined by Pakistan's role in the Himalayan region. "Let's not forget that after every major Indian peace gesture toward Pakistan, militants launched attacks in Kashmir or other parts of India. Any rapprochement between New Delhi and Islamabad would only be possible if Pakistan makes serious efforts to build confidence."
Ties with Afghanistan
Indian and Pakistani interests also clash in Afghanistan. Security experts say that Islamabad is wary of New Delhi's closeness with Kabul and considers it a big threat. Since the US ousted the Taliban regime in 2001, Afghanistan has drifted away from Pakistani influence and moved closer to India. Although, Washington is now trying to use Islamabad's servicesto convince the Taliban to agree to a settlement, the US-Afghanistan-India nexus remains strong.
"I think that ties between Afghanistan and India will be even stronger during Modi's second term. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani was one of the first world leaders to congratulate Modi on his victory, and the Indian premier assured Ghani that New Delhi will continue to support the Afghan government and the Afghan people," Javed Hamim Kakar, an editor at Pajhwok Afghan News, told DW.
Michael Kugelman, a South Asia expert at the Washington-based Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, also thinks that Modi will continue his close partnership with Kabul.
"There is strong support across the foreign policy elite in India for close ties with Afghanistan, and that consensus will continue with the return of Modi," Kugelman told DW.
"India's policy in Afghanistan is meant to strengthen Kabul and put the Afghan state in a better position to fend off the Pakistan-sponsored Taliban. That said, even a hardliner like Modi has been and will continue to be cautious in Afghanistan so as not to provoke Islamabad. This means that we shouldn't expect Modi in his second term to put Indian boots on the ground in Afghanistan," Kugelman underlined.
Read more:Why is India reluctant to send troops to Afghanistan?
Apart from geopolitics, does Modi's Hindu nationalist credentials and alleged anti-Muslim stance anger traditional Afghans?
Afghan journalist Kakar says Modi is very popular among Afghans, especially because of his tough approach toward Pakistan. Many Afghans accuse Pakistan of backing militant Islamists in their country.
"Just see how Afghans expressed their joy over Modi's victory on social media," he added.
Analyst Kugelman also believes that Modi's nationalistic politics are not a concern for Afghans. "These politics may be divisive and discriminatory toward Muslims, but they are not directed at Afghans. In fact Modi's Hindu nationalistic politics are helpful for Kabul's interests as they emphasize a hard line policy toward Pakistan-a policy that enjoys robust support in Kabul."
Read more:Belt and Road Forum: Is the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor failing?
Controlled relations with Beijing
Islamabad-based expert Najimdeen said that Pakistan's closeness to China would remain a matter of concern for Modi.
Beijing's support for Islamabad in many international forums has angered New Delhi, but analyst Wolf said that Modi would not let these issues hamper India's overall relations with China.
"Both India and China are not interested in confrontation. But apart from trade and investment, the opportunities for bilateral cooperation will remain limited during Modi's second term," said the expert.
Wolf sees the border conflicts, India's refusal to participate in Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and US-China tensions as major stumbling blocks in close China-India ties during Narendra Modi's second term in office.
Read more:Can India challenge China with new Iranian Chabahar Port?

Additional reporting by Masood Saifullah and S. Khan.

Title: No title found


Title: 3 Haqqani militants arrested in Afghan capital: gov't

People's Daily Online
(Xinhua) 13:58, May 20, 2019
KABUL, May 20 (Xinhua) -- Three members of the Haqqani militant group have been arrested in Kabul, capital of Afghanistan, the government said on Monday.
"The National Directorate of Security (NDS) personnel launched an operation in Police District 8 of Kabul. As a result three members of Haqqani terrorist group were arrested," Presidential Information Coordination Center (Tawhid Center) said in a statement.
The statement did not disclose the exact time of the operation conducted by the NDS, the primary intelligence agency of the country.
As a Taliban-linked militant group, the Haqqani network, operating mostly in eastern provinces and the capital Kabul, has been responsible for many high-profile attacks against security forces.
On Sunday night, a police officer was wounded after unknown men hurled a hand grenade on a security checkpoint in Dough Abad, an area in Police District 7 of Kabul, police spokesman Ferdous Faramarz confirmed.



Title: 300 LeT Terrorists Active In Afghanistan: Pentagon
At least 300 fighters from Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), designated a global terror organisation by the US and the UN, are active in war-torn Afghanistan, a pentagon report has said.
The report also identified LeT among the three terrorist groups posing the greatest threat to the US and its allied forces in Afghanistan.
The LeT was responsible for the Mumbai terror attacks in 2008 that killed 166 people.
Among the 20 prominent terrorist organisations active in Afghanistan, LeT ranks fifth in terms of fighters along with al Qaeda and Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, stated the Pentagon report, ''Lead Inspector General for Operation Freedom''s Sentinel'', for the quarter ending March 31.
The report said the Department of Defence "identified the Haqqani Network, the Eastern Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba as groups that present the greatest threat to US and allied forces in Afghanistan".

The report also stated that an estimated 300 LeT and 1,000 Islamic Emirate High Council operatives are active in the war-torn country.
The ISIS-K, Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan and Haqqani network with an estimated 3,000-5,000 fighters each top the list of terrorist groups active in Afghanistan, it said.
TrackLatest NewsLive on NDTV.com and getnewsupdates fromIndiaand around theworld

Title: 
3 Haqqani militants arrested in Afghan capital: gov't - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KABUL, May 20 (Xinhua) -- Three members of the Haqqani militant group have been arrested in Kabul, capital of Afghanistan, the government said on Monday.
"The National Directorate of Security (NDS) personnel launched an operation in Police District 8 of Kabul. As a result three members of Haqqani terrorist group were arrested," Presidential Information Coordination Center (Tawhid Center) said in a statement.
The statement did not disclose the exact time of the operation conducted by the NDS, the primary intelligence agency of the country.
As a Taliban-linked militant group, the Haqqani network, operating mostly in eastern provinces and the capital Kabul, has been responsible for many high-profile attacks against security forces.
On Sunday night, a police officer was wounded after unknown men hurled a hand grenade on a security checkpoint in Dough Abad, an area in Police District 7 of Kabul, police spokesman Ferdous Faramarz confirmed.
Xinhua Headlines: Chinese experience inspires world's greening efforts
Chinese economy shifts to high-quality development
China marks 29th National Day for Helping Disabled on May 19
China Tourism Day marked nationwide
Scenery of Ra'og Lake in China's Tibet
"Liaoning Day" theme event held at Beijing horticultural expo
Night events held in museums in China's Jiangsu
12th Hebei Folk Culture Festival held in Shijiazhuang

Title: Business News Today: Read Latest Business news, India Business News Live, Share Market & Economy News | The Economic Times
Get only relevant updates on WhatsApp. No Spam.
Learn from the top business gurus.
September 23
India's corporate travel sector, valued at over USD 10.6 billion, is projected to grow at a 10.1% CAGR to USD 20.8 billion by FY30. This gro...
India's electric two-wheeler market is booming, but exports remain minimal. Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari sees potential for India ...
Monthly instalment schemes by jewellers are sustaining gold demand despite high prices. Tanishq, Reliance Jewels, and Senco Gold have seen s...
Vodafone Idea has been directed to pay Rs 50,000 in compensation to a senior citizen for mental harassment due to abrupt disconnection of hi...
Quick commerce is driving growth in grocery shopping, with 31% of Indian shoppers using it for core needs and 39% for top-ups, according to ...
The expo and the conference combined represent the most sought-after event of the Oil & Gas industry that is held every year to bring the in...
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Java Programming with ChatGPT: Learn using Generative AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Basics of Generative AI : Unveiling Tomorrow's Innovations
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Generative AI for Dynamic Java Web Applications with ChatGPT
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Mastering C++ Fundamentals with Generative AI: A Hands-On
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Master in Python Language Quickly Using the ChatGPT Open AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Zero to Hero in Microsoft Excel: Complete Excel guide 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Stock Trading
Market 101: An Insight into Trendlines and Momentum
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Markets 102: Mastering Sentiment Indicators for Swing and Positional Trading
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Market 103: Mastering Trends with RMI and Techno-Funda Insights
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Market 104: Options Trading: Kickstart Your F&O Adventure
By - Saketh R, Founder- QuickAlpha, Full Time Options Trader
Astrology
Vastu Shastra Course
By - Sachenkumar Rai, Vastu Shashtri
Data Science
SQL for Data Science along with Data Analytics and Data Visualization
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Web Development
A Comprehensive ASP.NET Core MVC 6 Project Guide for 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Stock Trading
ROC Made Easy: Master Course for ROC Stock Indicator
By - Souradeep Dey, Equity and Commodity Trader, Trainer
Stock Trading
RSI Made Easy: RSI Trading Course
By - Souradeep Dey, Equity and Commodity Trader, Trainer
Stock Trading
Technical Analysis for Everyone - Technical Analysis Course
By - Abhijit Paul, Technical Research Head, Fund Manager- ICICI Securities
Office Productivity
Mastering Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and 365
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Marketing
Digital marketing - Wordpress Website Development
By - Shraddha Somani, Digital Marketing Trainer, Consultant, Strategiest and Subject Matter expert
Web Development
Mastering Full Stack Development: From Frontend to Backend Excellence
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Finance
Financial Literacy i.e Lets Crack the Billionaire Code
By - CA Rahul Gupta, CA with 10+ years of domain experience, trainer
Stock Trading
Introduction to Technical Analysis & Candlestick Theory
By - Dinesh Nagpal, Full Time Trader, Ichimoku & Trading Psychology Expert
Leadership
Business Storytelling Masterclass
By - Ameen Haque, Founder of Storywallahs
Marketing
Future of Marketing & Branding Masterclass
By - Dr. David Aaker, Professor at Haas School of Business
HR
Human Potential and the Future of Employment
By - Lynda Gratton, Co-chair of the World Economic Forum Council on Work, Wages and Job Creation, Professor of Management Practice
Strategy
ESG and Business Sustainability Strategy
By - Vipul Arora, Partner, ESG & Climate Solutions at Sattva Consulting Author I Speaker I Thought Leader
Stock Trading
Options Trading Course For Beginners
By - Chetan Panchamia, Options Trader
Finance
Financial Reporting and Analytics
By - Dr. C.P. Gupta, Professor: Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi
Stock Trading
Options Scalping Made Easy
By - Sivakumar Jayachandran, Ace Scalper
Stock Trading
Futures Trading Made Easy: Future & Options Trading Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Markets Made Easy
By - elearnmarkets, Financial Education by StockEdge
Stock Trading
Renko Chart Patterns Made Easy
By - Kaushik Akiwatkar, Derivative Trader and Investor
Stock Trading
Options Trading Made Easy: Options Trading Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Investing Made Easy: Beginner's Stock Market Investment Course
By - elearnmarkets, Financial Education by StockEdge
Stock Trading
Macroeconomics Made Easy: Online Certification Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Valuation Made Easy
By - Rounak Gouti, Investment commentary writer
Tuesday, 24 Sep, 2024
Vodafone Idea (Vi) has said it’s now up to the government to come up with a mechanism to offer financial relief to the company, after the Supreme Court’s recent rejection of the telco’s curative petition seeking a re-computation of its adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues.
India’s aspiration to be a $7-trillion economy by the end of the decade can be achieved as a “strong” Prime Minister Narendra Modi rolls out the digital and physical infrastructure that’s drawing multinationals involved in manufacturing advanced products and services, said Jamie Dimon, chairman and CEO, JPMorgan.
This is India’s moment and the country should seize it, Nvidia chief executive Jensen Huang said after a roundtable in New York between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and leading technology industry CEOs. Sundar Pichai, the CEO of Google and its parent Alphabet, said the Prime Minister has a clear vision of the opportunity that artificial intelligence will create, and is challenging top companies to do more in India.
Securing a US student visa is just the beginning for international students. Maintaining it is crucial, as violations like prolonged absence, unauthorized transfer, or fraudulent activities can lead to revocation. Immediate steps include understanding the reason, contacting university services, reapplying or appealing, and seeking legal assistance if necessary.
High net worth Indians are using corporate credit cards for personal expenses during overseas travels to avoid breaching the $250,000 annual limit on foreign remittance. The government may soon implement rules to include international credit card spends under this limit, but distinguishing personal from business expenses remains challenging.
Prodigy Finance has announced a $5,000 scholarship for students pursuing higher education abroad for the Spring 2025 intake. Applications open in September 2024 and close on September 30, 2024. Eligible candidates must be accepted into a Prodigy Finance-supported program and demonstrate academic excellence and community commitment.
Rajinikanth to Mahesh Babu: South Stars Steal The Spotlight at Anant Ambani's Wedding
Explore Goa In The Rains: 10 Must-Do Activities, Places To Visit
Sonakshi Sinha wedding photos out: Actress marries Zaheer Iqbal in civil ceremony
How Four Words from Chiranjeevi Saved Pawan Kalyan's Life
​Mushrooms Can Lower Risk Of A Cancer Diagnosis​​​
What To Eat, What To Avoid During Pregnancy? Follow This ICMR Guide
Want To Live Longer? Watch Your Salt Intake, Advises ICMR
How vegans can get enough protein? What ICMR says
Balakrishna's 5 Controversies. Latest: Actress Anjali Incident
Why These Two Rs 10 Notes Fetched Over Rs 12 Lakhs At Auction?
Magnificent Mango: 5 Beauty Secrets Of This Summer Delight
​Radhika Merchant’s Space Suit Designer For Ambani Pre-Wedding Bash, Has Worked With Jennifer Lopez & Karlie Kloss!​
​Flax Seeds Can Aid In Weight Loss, Improve Gut Heath: Here’s The Best Time To Consume Them​
​NASA Finds 126 Alien Planets! Does This Mean There’s Extraterrestrial Life?​
You Can Enjoy This 5-Day Cruise For Just Rs 5,000. Thanks To Indian Govt
Scandals that destroyed Bollywood celebs' career
​From Vedavid To Vamika, 6 Bollywood Babies With Unique Names​
Blockout 2024: From Taylor Swift To Alia Bhatt, Celebs Are Being Boycotted Online
Gainers & Losers: Vedanta, IEX among 7 stocks in limelight on Tuesday
SIPs in 5 small cap mutual funds multiplied wealth by 100x in 15 years
9 famous street food to try when in Gujarat
8 yoga poses to reduce stubborn waist fat
8 health benefits of having ghee coffee in the morning
9 excellent immunity boosting food for kids
9 chia seeds benefits for skin and hair
These 4 F&O stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest
These 4 stocks closed above VWAP on September 23
These 3 stocks showed RSI Trending up on September 23
Bullish Momentum: These 3 stocks with White Marubozu Pattern on September 23
These 4 stocks closed below VWAP on September 23
At multi-year highs: These 6 stocks witnessed 5-year swing high breakouts
Positive Breakout: ACC among 4 stocks crossed their 200 DMAs
Chia Seeds: Miracle Superfood Or Overhyped Trend
Who Has Chris Martin Dated? A Look At Coldplay Singer's Famous Girlfriends
Gainers & Losers: Vodafone Idea, Indus Towers among 6 stocks in limelight on Monday
7 immunity boosting drinks for weather change
7 high-protein dishes made with chickpeas
7 house plants best suited for bathroom
7 effective morning exercises to lose weight
Gold price up more than 23% in one year; check latest price of gold
7 common mistakes you are doing to lose weight
7 health benefits of drinking haldi doodh everyday at night
7 homemade drinks to boost energy
Tech Mahindra among 3 stocks showing RSI trending up
Cochin Shipyard among 5 stocks with White Marubozu Pattern
These 5 F&O stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest
Finolex Industries and 3 other stocks close below VWAP
Vodafone Idea and 3 other stocks closed above VWAP
Check out these iconic Bonedi Bari Durga Puja in Kolkata
Why your EPF claim may get rejected: Here are 11 reasons
What DonaldTrump promised to accomplish on day one as president
Cancer patients: Tips to go through chemotherapy
Direct Tax Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme 2024: CBDT notifies these rules, forms from October 1, 2024
Oscars 2025: 'Laapataa Ladies' picked as India's entry; how Kiran Rao reacted, top film contenders and other details
India’s first Mpox clade 1 case in Kerala: Symptoms, treatment, risk factors, travel advices and other details
Want to visit the equator? Countries to consider and your budget guide from India
Top 5 flexi-cap funds with up to 28% returns in 3 yrs
Kamala Harris isn't alone! 5 Indian politicians who love to cook and eat
Hot on Web
In Case you missed it
Top Calculators
Top Prime Articles
Top Performing MF
Top Story Listing
Top Commodities
Top Definitions
Top Slideshow
Latest News
Follow us on:

Title: US Pakistan: US sees Pakistan-based LeT threat to it in Afghanistan: Pentagon report - The Economic Times
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Java Programming with ChatGPT: Learn using Generative AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Basics of Generative AI : Unveiling Tomorrow's Innovations
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Generative AI for Dynamic Java Web Applications with ChatGPT
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Mastering C++ Fundamentals with Generative AI: A Hands-On
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Master in Python Language Quickly Using the ChatGPT Open AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Zero to Hero in Microsoft Excel: Complete Excel guide 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Astrology
Vastu Shastra Course
By - Sachenkumar Rai, Vastu Shashtri
Data Science
SQL for Data Science along with Data Analytics and Data Visualization
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Web Development
A Comprehensive ASP.NET Core MVC 6 Project Guide for 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Mastering Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and 365
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Marketing
Digital marketing - Wordpress Website Development
By - Shraddha Somani, Digital Marketing Trainer, Consultant, Strategiest and Subject Matter expert
Web Development
Mastering Full Stack Development: From Frontend to Backend Excellence
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Finance
Financial Literacy i.e Lets Crack the Billionaire Code
By - CA Rahul Gupta, CA with 10+ years of domain experience, trainer
Leadership
Business Storytelling Masterclass
By - Ameen Haque, Founder of Storywallahs
Marketing
Future of Marketing & Branding Masterclass
By - Dr. David Aaker, Professor at Haas School of Business
HR
Human Potential and the Future of Employment
By - Lynda Gratton, Co-chair of the World Economic Forum Council on Work, Wages and Job Creation, Professor of Management Practice
Strategy
ESG and Business Sustainability Strategy
By - Vipul Arora, Partner, ESG & Climate Solutions at Sattva Consulting Author I Speaker I Thought Leader
Finance
Financial Reporting and Analytics
By - Dr. C.P. Gupta, Professor: Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi
(Catch all theBusiness News,Breaking News,Budget 2024Events andLatest NewsUpdates onThe Economic Times.)
Subscribe toThe Economic Times Primeand read theET ePaperonline.
(Catch all theBusiness News,Breaking News,Budget 2024Events andLatest NewsUpdates onThe Economic Times.)
Subscribe toThe Economic Times Primeand read theET ePaperonline.

Flyers are denied free airport lounge access. The behind the scenes that led to it.
In the new world trade order, is narrative shifting from profits to wages?
Alcobev firms undergo a hangover in Q1 FY25 despite premium push
8 things India should know about Pakistan’s new spy chief
A 98% haircut for SUUTI in Modern Syntex resolution plan raises eyebrows
Can BookMyShow’s Coldplay mess be Zomato’s big ticket opportunity?
US backs India, Japan & Germany for UNSC permanent seats
'Don’t make a mockery of our sentiments...'
A bird may sing in Kabul, but a girl may not: Meryl Streep
PM Modi caps his US trip with a meeting with Zelenskyy
Israel targets Hezbollah missiles buried in civilian buildings
MUDA scam case: K'taka HC's big jolt to CM Sidda
Iran seeks a world free of nuclear weapons: Pezeshkian
K'taka mandates Urdu proficiency for Anganwadi teachers' posts
Hugs, diplomacy, Bonhomie! Highlights from PM Modi’s US visit
Iron Dome Defends Israel from Hezbollah Rockets
Hot on Web
In Case you missed it
Top Searched Companies
Top Calculators
Top Definitions
Top Slideshow
Top Story Listing
Private Companies
Top Prime Articles
Most Searched IFSC Codes
Latest News
Follow us on:
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Reason for reporting:
Your Reason has been Reported to the admin.
Log In/Connect with:
Will be displayed
Will not be displayed
Will be displayed
Stories you might be interested in