Title: China to host rare meeting between Afghan govt, Taliban | World News - The Indian Express
China, seeking to play a greater role in the Afghan peace process, on Monday said it is making efforts to host a rare meeting between the Afghanistan officials and the Taliban in the country to discuss the peace and reconciliation efforts in the war-torn nation.
Taliban, which till recently was holding talks with the US before it collapsed in September, has so far declined to hold direct talks with the Afghanistan government.
“We support constructive dialogue between all parties, including the Afghanistan government and the Taliban,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told a media briefing here.
“Respecting the will of all parties, we would like to provide a platform for dialogue for all parties and help in the peace and reconciliation process. China is maintaining communication with all relevant parties on holding this meeting in China,” he said.
When asked about the Taliban’s reservations in the recent past to hold talks with the Afghan government, Geng reiterated that China is having communication with the relevant parties in Afghanistan for this meeting.
Captives or defectors? Taliban fighters tell conflicting tales

“The parties include the Afghan government and the Afghan Taliban,” he said, adding that more details would be provided later.
China, which shares borders with the landlocked nation, hosted a Taliban delegation in September as part of its efforts to enhance its role in the Afghanistan peace process in the backdrop of the US planning to pull out the remaining troops from the war-ravaged country.
A Taliban delegation headed by its leader Mullah Baradar held talks with Deng Xijun, China’s special envoy on Afghanistan, in Beijing in September.
The talks took place in the backdrop of US PresidentDonald Trumpabruptly calling ending talks with the insurgents in September after a suicide attack, claimed by Taliban, in Kabul killed an American soldier and 11 others.
Uighur terrorism brewing in Pakistan is drawing China’s ire

The US-Taliban talks had collapsed after nine rounds of talks between the US and Taliban representatives, held in Doha, the capital of the Gulf state of Qatar.
China is also conducting a trilateral Foreign Ministerial-level talks with Pakistan and Afghanistan to iron out differences between Islamabad and Kabul over concerns of Taliban’s presence in Pakistan.
In a day-long talk in Moscow in October, representatives of Pakistan, Russia, China and the US have agreed that negotiation is the only road to peace in Afghanistan, including an early resumption of direct US talks with the Taliban.
Sanjeev Kumar, a talented actor, had a passion for food and even rented a house to satisfy his love for non-vegetarian dishes. Fellow actors Shammi Kapoor, Shatrughan Sinha, and Randhir Kapoor would often join him for late-night feasts. Sachin Pilgaonkar revealed this in a recent interview, highlighting Sanjeev's love for food and his bond with his colleagues.



Title: BBC Radio 4 - Beyond Today, What happened to the Taliban?

9/11 sparked two decades of war, but now it’s time to talk.
In the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks the Taliban were never out of the news when Britain and the US deployed their armies to destroy al Qaeda and the Taliban, the terrorist group who controlled Afghanistan at the time. But the Taliban were never destroyed; they still control parts of the country and they still carry out attacks against the Afghan government.
It’s a custom around Eid for the Afghan government and the Taliban to exchange prisoners as a gesture of goodwill. Normally around 10 prisoners from each side, but this summer President Ghani of Afghanistan made the unprecedented decision to release nearly 900 Taliban prisoners. So, what does that mean for Afghanistan?
We speak to BBC journalists Auliya Atrafi and Claire Press who went inside the Taliban wing of Pul-e-Charki, Afghanistan’s largest prison to find out what’s driving these fighters. As peace talks between the US and the Taliban have yet again broken down, we look at why negotiating with terrorists remains part of the plan.Presenter: Matthew PriceProducer: Lucy Hancock and Alicia BurrellMixed by Nicolas RaufastEditor: John Shields
Available now
18 minutes
See all episodes from Beyond Today
Five things Gina Martin found out about getting her upskirting law passed.
Stacey took a break from Strictly to talk to Beyond Today.
How the apps we all use can have far-reaching consequences for some users.
Simon Mundie finds out what sport can teach us about life.
One big question about one big story from the news - and beyond - every weekday.

Title: MSN


Title: Afghanistan terrorism: EXPLAINED: Why Pakistan’s ‘fear of strategic encirclement by India’ is a convenient excuse to support terror | India News
In a reportpublishedearlier this week, the bipartisan US Congressional Research Service re-enforced long-standing assertions that the Pakistan government has played -- and continues to play -- an active role in supporting militant insurgencies in Afghanistan, most notably that of the Taliban. In the past, Pakistan has voiced security concerns that India’s diplomatic and commercial missions in Afghanistan may be part of a larger scheme of ‘strategic encirclement’. India has been swift in dismissing these allegations, asserting that any Indian military involvement in Afghanistan would only be at the behest of Afghanistan’s sovereign government.
Pakistan’s efforts to undermine India’s rebuilding efforts in Afghanistan are without doubt strategic in nature, intended to distract from its own participation in sustaining the operations and legitimacy of the Taliban. Islamabad’s links with the Talibanstretchas far back as the early 1990s, and Pakistan views the militant outfit as crucial to maintaining its chokehold over Afghanistan. The US’ prematurewithdrawalof 8,400 soldiers from Afghanistan in 2014 has been widely regarded as a tactical blunder, with what had been a weakened Taliban, eventually recovering its vitality since.RELATED NEWSPakistan exporting terror, stifling women's voices for narrow political gains: India at UNSCFailed to significantly limit terror funding; recruitment by LeT and JeM: US report exposes PakistanSome countries have anti-Pak design at FATF: China
What’s more, Islamabad’s close relationship with the Taliban and the Haqqani network was initially believed to be valuable in multi-lateral efforts to broker a peace deal between the Afghanistan government, and militant groups. However, the Trump administration’scancellationof peace negotiations in September this year, outlined the US’ frustration that Pakistan continues to preach one thing, and do its opposite. The recent US Congressional report is a clear indictment of the Inter-Services Intelligence’s (ISI) efforts to erode the stability in the region.
Someanalystshave noted that a strategy of coercion may now be the only solution to achieve some semblance of stability in the Afghan region. Earlier this year, the Financial Action Task Force (FATF)issueda stark warning to Islamabad, cautioning that if it is unable to roll out effective measures to curb terrorist financing activity in the region by February 2020, it will be blacklisted.
The FATF warning is the first among many steps toward ramping up multilateral pressure on Pakistan. With its own economy currently in the doldrums, and the country seeking large loans from the International Monetary Fund, such bodies must bring to bear their economic leverage to enforce biting sanctions as well. Washington would also finally need to end its treatment of Pakistan as a ‘non-NATO strategic partner’, and officially designate Pakistan as a state sponsor of terrorism.

Title: Pakistan views Taliban as anti-India & friendly element in Afghan: US | Republic World
Published 17:05 IST, November 6th 2019
16:12 IST, November 6th 2019
© 2024 Republic. All rights reserved.
Big Stories
Quick
Live TV
Video

Title: China to host rare meeting between Afghan government, Taliban
BEIJING: China, seeking to play a greater role in the Afghan peace process, on Monday said it is making efforts to host a rare meeting between the Afghanistan officials and the Taliban in the country to discuss the peace and reconciliation efforts in the war-torn nation.
Taliban, which till recently was holding talks with the US before it collapsed in September, has so far declined to hold direct talks with the Afghanistan government.
"We support constructive dialogue between all parties, including the Afghanistan government and the Taliban," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang told a media briefing here.
ALSO READ |Five Taliban terrorists killed in Afghanistan's Logar province
"Respecting the will of all parties, we would like to provide a platform for dialogue for all parties and help in the peace and reconciliation process. China is maintaining communication with all relevant parties on holding this meeting in China," he said.
When asked about Taliban's reservations in the recent past to hold talks with the Afghan government, Geng reiterated that China is having communication with the relevant parties in Afghanistan for this meeting.
"The parties include the Afghan government and the Afghan Taliban," he said, adding that more details would be provided later.
China, which shares borders with the landlocked nation, hosted a Taliban delegation in September as part of its efforts to enhance its role in the Afghanistan peace process in the backdrop of the US planning to pull out the remaining troops from the war-ravaged country.
A Taliban delegation headed by its leader Mullah Baradar held talks with Deng Xijun, China's special envoy on Afghanistan, in Beijing in September.
ALSO READ |At least 89 Taliban terrorists killed, 60 wounded during operation by Afghan forces
The talks took place in the backdrop of US President Donald Trump abruptly calling ending talks with the insurgents in September after a suicide attack, claimed by Taliban, in Kabul killed an American soldier and 11 others.
The US-Taliban talks had collapsed after nine rounds of talks between their representatives in Doha, the capital of the Gulf state of Qatar.
China is also conducting trilateral Foreign Ministerial-level talks with Pakistan and Afghanistan to iron out differences between Islamabad and Kabul over concerns of the Taliban's presence in Pakistan.
In a day-long talk in Moscow in October, representatives of Pakistan, Russia, China and the US have agreed that negotiation is the only road to peace in Afghanistan, including an early resumption of direct US talks with the Taliban.
Follow The New Indian Express channel on WhatsApp
Download the TNIE app to stay with us and follow the latest

Copyright - newindianexpress.com 2024. All rights reserved.


Title: Death of a Caliph: The Islamic State in Khorasan Province After al-Baghdadi – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
ISKP continues to pose a real threat to Afghanistan, despite al-Baghdadi’s death.
Afghan security personnel detain a suspect at the site of an attack by the Islamic State on the Marshal Fahim military academy in Kabul, Afghanistan, Jan. 29, 2018.
The recent killing of the Islamic State’s (IS) caliph, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, in Syria had sparked speculations in counterterrorism circles about the future course of the global jihadist terrorism movement. Despite the symbolic and high-profile nature of al-Baghdadi’s killing, it will not significantly alter the threat that IS poses in Afghanistan and its immediate neighborhood or its ability to operate and execute attacks in the region due to a large presence of foreign terrorist fighters (FTFs) and the group’s ability to endure losses.
The IS “province” (wilayat) in Afghanistan known as IS Khorasan Province (ISKP) has anestimated2,500-4,000 fighters and is currently present in Nangarhar and Kunar provinces in eastern Afghanistan along with logistical bases straddling the Durand line. The group has carried out multiple attacks in Afghanistan, especially on soft targets and Shia minorities, causing significant casualties. It maintains theabilityto carry out countrywide mass casualty attacks using a network of covert cells and is also capable of executing overseas attacks. ISKP also retains ideological and operationallinkswith certain Central Asian and Pakistan-based groups.
ISKP’s Defiance of Setbacks in Afghanistan
ISKP, despite its promising start, was unable to consolidate its presence in Afghanistan and has had a series of losses to U.S., Afghan, and Taliban forces. ISKPlossessince its establishment in 2015 include four emirs (leaders) and around 544 top and mid-level leaders as of September 2019. Despite its territorial, personnel, and leadership losses it continues to endure and while there has been a reduction in the number of attacks by ISKP, the lethality per attack hasincreasedgradually. While Afghanistan’s difficult terrain and porous borders with Pakistan and Central Asia can explain ISKP’s resilience to an extent, it is the inability of regional powers to find common ground in combating the group and the failure of the Afghan government to consolidate its presence in areas of ISKP influence/control that has allowed it to persist.
ISKP has always had strong links to Islamic State-Central in Iraq and Syria – including those related to leadership appointments, propaganda, and resource allocations – and it had firmly operated under al-Baghdadi’s auspices. The degree of support wavered, however, after the fall of the last IS stronghold in Baghuz, Syria in March. Still, IS-Central’s amount of control over ISKP was made evident when its fifth emir wasreplacedin April due to poor performance in the context of ISKP setbacks in Nangarhar in 2018. This leadership change was made during a visit by an IS-Central delegation to Afghanistan, which highlights their direct relationship even after IS lost its last territory no more than a month before.
With al-Baghdadi now dead, ISKP would be more reliant on local sources of revenue and support than ever before and it might attempt to carry out high-profile attacks to garner funds and recruitment. This might lead to increased clashes with existing regional militant groups such as the Taliban and Lashkar-e-Islam over a scramble for resources, taxation areas, and smuggling routes. However, Afghanistan has the potential to become an IS hub as it is located at the crossroads of Central Asia, the Middle East, and South Asia, which already has anexisting jihadi ecosystemand large ungoverned or partially-governed areas. Plus, thousands of fighters hadfledfrom Syria to Afghanistan as IS was gradually losing territory. In May, after the IS-inspired Sri Lankan serial bombings in April, Islamic Statedeclaredtwo new “provinces” in South Asia – IS-India and IS-Pakistan – suggesting that IS could be creating custom strategies to better fit situations in different regions, rather than a wider template under ISKP. This would be in line with al-Baghdadi’sinstructionson September 16 to shift from “enduring and expanding” to “expanding and spreading.”
ISKP’s Connections With Foreign Terrorist Fighters in Afghanistan
There are apprehensions that in the event of reconciliation between the Afghan government and the Taliban, the latter’s hardcore elements, along with other FTFs with the Taliban, mayshift their allegianceto ISKP. According to one of the Afghan founding members of ISKP, Abdul Rahman Muslimdost, it may have thesupport of Pakistanin such a scenario. Muslimdost’s warning may not be without merit as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), a terrorist group withlinksto Pakistani intelligence, had reportedly tried tonegotiate a trucebetween the Taliban and ISKP but failed. LeT also acts as a key recruitment and fundraising facilitator for FTFs in Kunar province, where ISKP is present along in addition to around 500 LeT fighters. Also the Haqqani Network, another Pakistan-based terrorist group affiliated with the Taliban’s Miranshah Shura, hasstayed neutralwith regard to ISKP and it also hasconnectionsto Pakistani intelligence. It should also be noted thatmost FTFsin Afghanistan are Pakistani.
Already there is a drive for increased recruitment, expansion, and funding across Afghanistan by ISKP as evidenced by thearrestof ISKP members attempting recruitment in places like anAmerican-funded university in Kabul, and thearrestof a deputy leader of ISKP as well as thepresenceof ISKP fighters in the westernmost province of Herat in September, more than 1,000 kilometers away from ISKP’s stronghold in Nangarhar. There is also the threat of increasingradicalization of inmatesin Afghan prisons such as Pul-e-Charkhi, where petty criminals intermingle with extremist elements with no ban on external communications.
On November 6, ISKP carried out anattackon a security checkpoint on the Tajikistan-Uzbekistan border leading to 15 ISKP and two Tajikistani casualties with five of the attackers captured alive. A spokesman for the Tajikistan Interior Ministry said that the attackers were Tajikistani citizens and Afghan officials said that the attackers had crossed into Tajikistan from Kunduz province in northern Afghanistan via a porous border crossing controlled by the Taliban. Local Afghan officials stated that the attackers had been in the area for two to four weeks, having come from Nangarhar, and had been carrying out recruitment. The fact that at least 20 ISKP fighters were able to travel from southeastern Afghanistan to the Tajikistan border without encountering any government or Taliban resistance and were able to operate across the border for weeks indicates how resourceful and resilient ISKP is.
It is possible that these Tajik attackers were part of ISKP’sCentral Asian contingent(numbering some 200 fighters) led by Tajik national Sayvaly Shafiev, an ISKPshura(leadership council) member, who is also known to operate in Nangarhar. Shafiev has been carrying out recruitment, fund-raising, and propaganda in the Tajik language and isallegedly responsiblefor reaching out to Tajik migrant workers in Russia for recruitment and helping them travel to Afghanistan for training. Other Tajik members of IS such as Abu Usman Noraki and Gulmorad Khalimov have beenspeculatedto be directing overseas attacks from Afghanistan in the past.
Conclusion
This recent attack along with other recurring ISKP attacks in Afghanistan and its neighboring countries indicates that, contrary to whatAfghan officials believe, the ISKP threat is not negated by al-Baghdadi’s killing. Instead, the self-proclaimed Caliph’s death will only cause further unpredictability in the jihadist landscape in the region. More than 20 different terrorist groups are known to operate in Afghanistan and thepresenceof 8,000-10,000 FTFs provide scant comfort despite al-Baghdadi’s demise and the prospects of an Afghan peace agreement.
Saurav Sarkar is a Research Associate at the Center for Air Power Studies, Western Air Command, New Delhi.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: Opinion: In Afghanistan, the fight against Islamic State is far from over - The Globe and Mail
This article was published more than 4 years ago. Some information may no longer be current.
Ruchi Kumar is an Indian journalist based out of Bombay and Kabul.
On Oct. 24, a video surfaced on Afghan social media, showing a former fighter of the Islamic State surrendering to the Afghan government. The man, who claimed to be Jordanian, says that he came to this country looking forjihad. “On the internet, they told us there isjihadhere, but I came here I see [nojihad], Muslims with Muslims, fighting together,” he tells Shah Mahmood Miakhel, the governor of the Afghan province of Nangarhar.
This fighter didn’t find the glorified battle he was promised, but that hasn’t stopped hundreds of others who are making this trip each year in search of thejihadbeing promoted by Islamic State leadership.
Two days later, on Oct. 26, the world woke up to the news of the death of the notorious Islamic State leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, killed during a U.S. army raid on his compound in Syria. Mr. al-Baghdadi had gained notoriety since taking on the reins of the group in 2014 and has been blamed for many brutal atrocities committed by the group in Syria, Iraq and elsewhere.
His death is being hailed as major victory for the U.S.’s war against the group and is likely to weaken the many factions of the group in the Middle East. However, the fight against the Islamic State is far from over. Like the man interviewed by Mr. Maikhel, many IS fighters are now turning eastward to this region in central and south Asia to join the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant – Khorasan Province (ISKP). Despite Mr. al-Baghdadi’s death, there is real concern that ISKP could grow into a formidable insurgency in the region.
The ISKP has increased its recruiting and attacks in Afghanistan. Of the 5,117 civilian casualties reported by the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan in the first nine months of this year, 1,013 were attributed to ISKP, including the horrific suicide bombing at a Hazara Shia wedding ceremony in August in Kabul.
While the estimated population of foreign ISKP fighters remains relatively low, there have beenseveral reportsof many fighters travelling to Afghanistan from Pakistan, India, Central Asia and the Middle East. Unable to find their place in the losing war in the Middle East, they come to Afghanistan with their families to seek battle gratification.
If the much-delayed peace talks with the Taliban reach a fruitful conclusion, experts such asHekmat Azamy, director atCentre for Conflict and Peace Studies, who has been closely observing the developments, foresee the possibility of Taliban fighters shifting camps to join the ISKP.
ISKP is not organically linked to the group in the Middle East. In fact, the leadership of the Islamic State has remained decentralized for many years now, and nearly all attacks conducted by the group outside the Middle East region have been planned and executed by affiliated groups that claim allegiance to the mother organization, but receive little in support, training or funding from them. In Afghanistan, intelligence officials, including the former chief of intelligence and current vice-presidential candidate Amrullah Saleh, have accused the Pakistani spy agency, Inter-Services Intelligence, of manufacturing and supporting the ISKP, among other insurgencies in a bid to destabilize the political system within their country.
Those in the Afghan academic and intelligence circles such asOmar Sadr,political professor at American University of Afghanistan, and Hussain Ehsani, a senior researcher at the Kabul-based Afghan Institute of Strategic Studies, have expressed cautious optimism over the death of Mr. al-Baghdadi.
While the Afghan government and its foreign allies have increased their efforts against the ISKP, the current gap in an already decentralized leadership offers a moment of chaos that can be exploited to ensure the influence of the group is restricted and eventually eliminated.
The solutions, though, need to go beyond military operations and take stock of the radicalization within Afghanistan. Afghan government structures need to be strengthened and supported to allow for community-level engagement that not only helps understand how and why fighters join insurgencies but also prevents recruitment.
There is an urgent need to address the nature of the peace talks with the Taliban, which currently excludes the Afghan government. An inclusive intra-Afghan negotiation can help ensure the Taliban fighters are integrated into the society. There is potential to mobilize the strong nationalist sentiments among local fighters to dissuade their shift to the Islamic State.
Most of all, foreign allies need to recognize the threats posed by ISKP along with other insurgencies in destabilizing the region, in case of their sudden and complete withdrawal, as demanded by the Taliban. Afghan forces are going to need all the support they can get, as the Islamic State reorganizes and mobilizes in the coming months. To quote the Nangarhar governor fighting the ISKP influence in his region, “Afghans sacrifice for [the] world’s problems. [The] world needs to support us in this fight.”
Keep your Opinions sharp and informed. Get the Opinion newsletter.Sign up today.
Report an editorial error
Report a technical issue
Editorial code of conduct
© Copyright2024The Globe and Mail Inc. All rights reserved.
Andrew Saunders, President and CEO

Title: 
	Afghan Islamic State after Baghdadi  - The Hindu

To enjoy additional benefits
CONNECT WITH US
Updated- November 03, 2019 01:03 pm IST
Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi in an undated screengrab.
On October 26, the U.S. announced that the Islamic State leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, was killed, in an apparent suicide detonation during a raid at his house in Idlib, Syria. Baghdadi was the leader of the IS insurgency since its inception and had executed many gruesome attacks in Iraq, Syria and elsewhere. His death is widely expected to weaken the global IS structure, including in its wing in Afghanistan.
The Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP), as the Afghan IS is referred to, has been on the rise for the last few years. Largely concentrated in Nangarhar in eastern Afghanistan, the group has carried out several suicide attacks, primarily targeting the country’s minorities. Of the 5,117 civilian casualties reported by the UN this year, 1,013 were attributed to the ISKP, including the suicide bombing at a Hazara Shia wedding ceremony in August in Kabul that resulted in the death of more than 90 people.
The rise of the IS in Afghanistan, a country ravaged by conflicts, is a complicated one. The IS is still a struggling insurgency that’s fighting several battles at the same time. “While the larger ideology of the group has managed to find some in-roads into the radicalised segments in Afghanistan, the lack of a nationalist sentiment, such as that offered by the Taliban, has prevented it from growing stronger,” according to Omar Sadr, Assistant Professor at the American University of Afghanistan in Kabul. “The ideological influence is there, they [ISKP] haven’t been able to locate themselves within the social and cultural fabric of the Afghan society. Here, it is much different socially, tribally, and ethnically, compared to Iraq and Syria, and that is why they have had challenges in finding a stronghold here,” Mr. Sadr added.
But at the same time, the ISKP is organisationally independent from the IS core in Iraq and Syria. “While talking about Afghanistan, there is kind of a disagreement among many in the intelligence community about the roots of IS in the region. For example, Amrullah Saleh [the former Afghan spy chief], says the IS in Afghanistan is not organically or organisationally linked with the IS in West Asia. A segment of policy analysts proposed that the ISKP was manufactured or contracted out by an intervention of ISI (Inter Service Intelligence) in Pakistan and some other countries,” Mr. Sadr toldThe Hindu.
Still, Baghdadi’s death gives governments of the countries affected by the IS insurgency an opportunity to tackle the problem. “ISKP fighters, who have lost their leader, will likely be disappointed or demoralised. It is also possible that many will revert back to their original activities or other groups they were aligned with,” Hussain Ehsani, a senior researcher at the Kabul-based Afghan Institute of Strategic Studies, toldThe Hindu, adding that this lack of leadership and chaos could also pave the way for another jihadist organisation to take its place. “For example, in the case of Osama bin Laden, after his death, al-Qaeda grew weak, while a new, resurgent IS emerged as a stronger terrorist group.”
Both analysts agreed that there was an urgent need to target the roots of radicalisation to ensure that the ISKP is defeated.
“These groups look for countries with weaker governance and institutions to establish themselves. If the Afghan government reinforces its presence, especially during this period when their leadership is unstable, the ISKP can be subdued. Also, the government should target the ideology and not just the group,” Mr. Ehsani said.
Mr. Sadr, of the American University, advised the government to utilise the power of Afghan nationalism against the foreign nature of the ISKP. “There will be a crisis of leadership and legitimacy for a while. The government of Afghanistan should seize the moment, and mobilise the nationalistic sentiment against the group. There are many instances where the communities rose against the IS within Afghanistan,” he said.
However, the Afghan state remains fragile, and will need concentrated efforts that go beyond military operations to tackle the IS. “The ISKP is operating in those pockets and districts where there is no state at all. The state fragility has provided such non-state actors space to operate. So, countering them militarily is not enough. State structures and governance need to be strengthened, along with counter-radicalisation through education,” Mr. Sadr added.
“More work is needed at different levels within the community, education, culture, and to understand why certain segments of fighters are converting to the IS ideology.”
(Ruchi Kumar is a journalist based in Kabul)
Published- November 02, 2019 09:45 pm IST
Afghanistan/Islamic State
Copyright© 2024, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
BACK TO TOP
Terms & conditions|Institutional Subscriber
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by ourcommunity guidelinesfor posting your comments.
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.

Title: Islamic State in Afghanistan: Between  a Rock and a Hard Place - The Daily Outlook Afghanistan
It was undoubtedly a  major strategic blunder of ISIS to opt Afghanistan as their base for  recruitment and recuperation. They were never welcomed here. The US forces  bombed them from the skies and simultaneously, the Afghan security forces and  local uprising groups dealt them on the ground and the Taliban too challenged  them on the battlefield and defied their version of Islam.“We have eliminated  Daesh” the Afghan President Ashraf Ghani boasted by declaring victory over  Islamic State in Nangarhar, eastern Afghanistan. President Ashraf Ghani visited  Nangarhar on Tuesday, to celebrate the occasion by expressing gratitude to the  tribal elders for their sacrifices and resistance, paid tribute to the fallen  soldiers and members of the local uprising groups who valiantly stood against  the atrocious rule of Daesh and congratulated the nation for incapacitating, if  not eliminating, the terror group.The celebrations  were owing to the surrender of 243 demoralized ISIS fighters who surrendered  along with their families, including many children and women, to the Afghan  government as a consequence of the anti-ISIS operations since the declaration  of Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP) in 2015. Interestingly, the  majority of the surrendered fighters belonged to Pakistan, followed by  Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Iran, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and Maldives. The  miscalculated gambit of the Islamic State of Iraq and Levant (ISIL) to solidify  its lost base and prolong its outreach from Afghanistan seems leading to  imminent failure.The Islamic State in  Khorasan Province was declared by the spokesperson of ISIL, Abu Muhammad  al-Adnani, in January 2015 which encompassed the territories of Pakistan,  Afghanistan, and parts of Central Asia—intending to revive the historical  Khorasan region. ISIL was eyeing the contested and ungoverned territories in  Afghanistan but initially, the Afghan government refuted ISIL’s declaration of  ISKP, however, they were helpless when they announced their ghastly arrival on  the scene with a gruesome suicide blast in Jalalabad, killing 35 people and  wounding 100, queued to collect their wages. The new terror group instantly  secured the allegiances from the disgruntled and opportunistic commanders of  Pakistani Taliban and individuals from the tribal areas of Pakistan formerly  known as FATA. In fact, the first governor of ISKP was the former commander of  the Pakistani Taliban in the Orakzai agency, Hafiz Saeed, a native Pakistani.  According to John Nicholson, “70 percent of ISKP members were former members of  Pakistani Taliban who were driven to Afghanistan by the military operations in  FATA.” The group continued its terrorist attacks unabatedly with no regard for  human lives. According to Global Terrorism Index, ISKP surpassed the Taliban in  conducting the worst terrorist attacks in 2017, with the Zanbaq Square in Kabul  and Sehwan in Sindh, Pakistan, being the most ferocious, killing 93 and 91  people respectively. In 2018, the terror group continued to inflict significant  casualties. In Dashte Barchi, Kabul, a suicide bomber killed 70 people at the  voting registration center only to be followed later with the carnage of 56  religious scholars celebrating the birth of Prophet Muhammad.Since the inception  of ISKP, the Afghan civilians especially those living in Achin, the first  capital and stronghold of ISKP and other districts of Nangarhar, have met a  fate of misery and unimaginable agony. Life under their rule was a nightmare in  reality, characterized by forced marriages, torture, and closure of schools,  the enforced inclusion of teenagers in their fighting ranks and subsequent  displacement of tens of thousands of families.Despite the horrible  damages inflicted on Afghan civilians the ISKP could not sustain any popular  legitimacy even by coercion let alone securing it through their so-called  puritanical deeds. The tribal elders in eastern Afghanistan stood against their  tyranny, the true unsung heroes who risked their lives and gave extraordinary  sacrifices, by forming the uprising units to repel the Daesh insurgents from  their constituencies. The fierce anti-Daesh operations conducted by the Afghan  National and Defense Security forces and supported by the US airstrikes caused  them unprecedented damages with the extermination of 1600 foot soldiers and  decapitation of its 20 top leaders. The Afghans have discarded their brand of  Islam, even the late head of Taliban Akhtar Muhammad Mansour had written a  letter to the leader of takfiri ideology, Aboubakar al Baghdadi, warning him  clear and loud “that there is room for only one flag and leadership”. Daesh in  Afghanistan had to survive in a very congested space: fighting against the US  and Afghan forces, the uprising units and occasionally the Taliban due to their  ideological differences.The partial, yet  significant, victory of Afghan military forces over the Islamic State terror  organization in eastern Afghanistan is a remarkable achievement for the Afghan  army which manifests the courage, commitment, professionalism and bravery of an  army which was formed only after 9/11. Furthermore, it also disheartening to  see the negligible mainstream media coverage devoted to this outstanding feat.  However, the threat of ISKP is not over yet, just like the diversity of the  surrendered IS insurgents suggest that it is an entirely ‘foreign’ entity and  disdained phenomenon which can only be defeated completely by a collective  mechanism involving the concerted efforts of the regional states. The threat of  IS terrorism and its prospects in Afghanistan are largely overestimated by many  western media outlets which hold Afghanistan a favorable environment for the IS  insurgents, ignoring the fact that Daesh enjoys not only limited operational  space but also the minutest of political and ideological support from the  Afghans. Moreover, it is not an indigenous movement like the Taliban which can  be successful in sustaining their operational objectives in the long run with  some support from the local populace. The terror group has lost one of its  major stronghold in the east, its local collaborators are neutralized in search  and combing operations by the Afghan special operation forces and they are  constantly pounded in the north. Daesh in eastern Afghanistan is gone,  hopefully forever.
Samiullah Doorandesh is a student of International Relations at Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad. He can be reached at Samiullah.doorandesh@gmail.com
Copyright ©2010www.outlookafghanistan.net - All Rights Reserved.

Title: Treaty boost to fighting terror
Follow Us :
Security co-operation between India and Afghanistan has reached an important milestone with the two countries exchanging instruments of ratification of an extradition treaty. The treaty will provide New Delhi and Kabul with a legal framework for seeking from each other extradition of terrorists, economic offenders and other criminals. Such a treaty is useful as it puts in place a formal process by which India can request Afghanistan to surrender to it an individual for prosecution of crimes committed in India’s jurisdiction. Several Indian nationals are known to have joined terrorist and jihadist groups like the Taliban, the Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP), the Haqqani Network, al-Qaeda, etc.
They are based in Afghanistan, whether to participate in the fighting there, for training or purposes of sanctuary. There are Pakistani nationals, too, who are wanted for terrorist attacks and other crimes in India and are operating out of Afghan territory. They are being provided sanctuary by anti-India terror groups like the Lashkar-e-Taiba or Jaish-e-Mohammed and other protégés of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence in Afghanistan’s border regions. Should they fall into the hands of the Afghan security forces and detained by the Afghan government, Delhi could request for their extradition to stand trial in India.
India can expect to see the benefits of the treaty soon. The Ghani government is considering handing over to India some 13 Indian nationals who fought alongside the ISKP and surrendered recently to Afghan security forces. Their interrogation will help Indian agencies to secure information on local jihadist networks. Both India and Afghanistan have serious concerns over Pakistan’s support and sanctuary to terror groups that are undermining their security. Their cooperation in fighting terrorism emanating from and supported by Pakistan will get a substantial and concrete boost with the extradition treaty.
India has extradition treaties with 47 countries. However, these treaties have not proved too productive; till date, it has managed to secure the extradition of just 62 people. This is because in many cases, what is seen as a crime in the requesting country is not perceived similarly in the other. This is especially the issue in cases involving terrorist attacks. Additionally, countries which have strong human rights laws are often reluctant to extradite to India. These issues are unlikely to come up between India and the Ghani government, since their definitions of terrorism and its sources are similar. This could change if a government unfriendly to India takes charge in Kabul. It underscores yet again the need for India to cultivate good relations with all leaders, parties and regimes in Afghanistan.
#Assembly Polls 2024

Title: 
	IS member from Kerala surrenders in Afghanistan - The Hindu

To enjoy additional benefits
CONNECT WITH US
Updated- November 26, 2019 09:44 am IST - New Delhi
Representation image.
Security agencies claim to have identified at least one Indian woman among more than 600 Islamic State fighters and affiliates,  who have surrendered before the Afghan  authorities over the past 10 days.
A senior official toldThe Hinduthat the woman had been identified as Sonia Sebastian, 32, alias Ayisha, a resident of Kasargod in Kerala. She was among the 21 men and women from Kerala who left India in 2016 in batches to join the Islamic State in Khorasan Province in Afghanistan. They crossed over to Afghanistan on foot from Iran, officials had said.
Mainly comprising defectors from Tehrik-i-Taliban (TTP), the Wilayat Khorasan of the Islamic State in Afghanistan came into existence in 2015.
“We have analysed some photographs of the surrendered IS fighters available in the public domain. One of them appears to be Sonia Sebastian. In the photograph she is sitting with a child,” said the official.
Indian authorities are yet to get any official confirmation from their counterparts in Afghanistan.
According to a 2017 chargesheet filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) against two suspects, Sebastian left India on May 31, 2016, with her husband, Abdul Rashid Abdulla, from Mumbai airport.
The NIA alleged that the “the couple held secret classes in support of IS and jihad, as propagated by it, during the last part of Ramadan, sometimes in the month of July, 2015 in Padanna and Kasaragod. The NIA is yet to file a chargesheet against Sebastian.”
“It has also been revealed during investigation that accused Abdul Rashid along with his wife Sonia Sebastian and the majority of the accused in this case, are presently located in IS-controlled territory in the Nangarhar province of Afghanistan,” the NIA chargesheet said.
Some residents in Kerala received messages in 2016, 2017 and 2018 that their family members had been killed in drone strikes in Afghanistan. The messages were sent by Ashfaq Majeed, who was part of the group that fled to Afghanistan. Officials said they had no way of checking the authenticity of these messages.
On November 17, a website gandhara.rferl.org quoted Shah Mahmood Miakhel, the Governor of eastern Nangarhar Province, that, “The surrendered people include 225 [male] fighters and 190 women and 200 children.” The Governor added that most of them were Pakistanis.
Published- November 26, 2019 01:14 am IST
Kerala/Islamic State
Copyright© 2024, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
BACK TO TOP
Terms & conditions|Institutional Subscriber
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by ourcommunity guidelinesfor posting your comments.
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.

Title: With ISIS gone, Afghan villagers struggle to rebuild from rubble | The National
Asia
November 21, 2019

Title: Pakistan ‘Disappointed’ at Annual U.S. Terrorism Report – Newsweek Pakistan
Courtesy Pakistan Foreign Office
Pakistan on Tuesday expressed disappointment at a report issued by the U.S. State Department, which criticized Islamabad’s counter-terrorism efforts.
In a statement issued by the Foreign Office, Islamabad said the Country Report on Terrorism 2018 “completely overlooks the factual situation on the ground and the tremendous contribution made and sacrifices rendered by Pakistan over the last two decades in the international struggle against terrorism.” It said that Pakistan’s efforts had helped eliminate Al Qaeda from the region, making the entire world “a safer place” as a result.
The U.S. report, released on Nov. 1, acknowledged Pakistan’s progress in adhering to international standards to reduce money laundering and terror financing but noted “implementation remains uneven.” It also criticized Islamabad for taking limited steps to tackle groups staging terror attacks from its soil, specifically identifying Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed as continuing to operate in Pakistan without any issues.
It also noted that even though Pakistan had criminalized unlicensed money transfer systems such as hawala and hundi, they continued to be utilized across the country “and were open to abuse by terrorism financiers operating in the cross-border area [between Pakistan and Afghanistan.”
The U.S. report went on to claim that even though Pakistan had supported the U.S.-led Afghan peace process, it failed in preventing the Afghan Taliban or the Haqqani Network from staging attacks in Afghanistan from its soil.
Pakistan’s Foreign Office took great umbrage at this assertion. “As noted in the Report, Pakistan faces the threat of terrorism from a number of groups including TTP [Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan], JuA [Jamaat-ul-Ahrar] and ISKP [Islamic State Khorasan Province]. The report, however, fails to mention that these groups continue to operate and conduct terrorist activities against Pakistan from across the border,” it said, referring to multiple reports citing terror in the country originating from Afghanistan.
“Pakistan has facilitated U.S. and Taliban direct talks in the context of the Afghan peace and reconciliation process in good faith. Pakistan’s positive contribution in this regard has been widely acknowledged, including by the United States and its leadership. Any insinuation to the contrary is unwarranted and is inconsistent with the positive trajectory of the bilateral relations,” it added.
The U.S. report praised Pakistan’s 2015 National Action Plan to combat terrorism and its pledge to prevent and counter terror financing and enhance inter-agency coordination but again pointed to lack of implementation as a barrier. The Foreign Office said Islamabad was united in acting under NAP. “Pakistan has taken extensive legal and administrative measures for implementation of its obligations under the UNSC 1267 sanctions regime for the freezing of assets and denial of funds and economic resources to all designated entities and individuals. Pakistan is continuing actions to fully implement the FATF Action Plan,” it said.
“We have always stressed that counter-terrorism efforts can be effectively advanced through constructive engagement. We hope Pakistan’s commitment, contributions and sacrifices would be fully recognized and appreciated in the right perspective,” it concluded.




Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.


Δ
Copyright © 2022 AG Publications (Private) Limited.

Title: Debunking the 'Trump Is a Racist' Charge | Frontpage Mag
November 29, 2019byJohn PerazzoLeave a Comment
If you hate Donald Trump, it’s really quite understandable. The print, electronic, and broadcast media have worked with relentless passion and purpose to remind you, as frequently as possible, of the many objectionable statements and damnable positions that allegedly are part-and-parcel of Mr. Trump’s political track record.
Whenthe Harvard Kennedy School’s Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy analyzed howThe New York Times,The Wall Street Journal,The Washington Post, and the newscasts of CBS, CNN, Fox and NBC had covered President Trump during his first 100 days in office, it found that their coverage was 80% negative and 20% positive. The corresponding figures for the first 100 days of the three previous presidencies were in a completely different universe: Barack Obama, 41% negative vs. 59% positive; George W. Bush, 57% negative vs. 43% positive; and Bill Clinton, 60% negative vs. 40% positive.
For data collected over longer time periods, we can turn to the Virginia-based Media Research Center (MRC), which has conducted numerous comprehensive analyses of exactly how the press has covered Trump from the time of his 2016 presidential campaign to the present day. Most notably, MRC hasexaminedhow often the three major television networks—ABC, NBC, and CBS—have aired stories portraying Trump and/or his policies in either a positive or negative light. These MRC studies tally “evaluative statements which impar[t] a clear positive or negative tone to the story, such as statements from experts presented as non-partisan, voters, or opinionated statements from the networks’ own reporters.” Neutral statements are not factored into the equation; nor are soundbites from openly partisan political operatives or spokespeople who merely parrot a predictable party line. As a result of MRC’s research, we know precisely the ratio of negative-to-positive news reports that have been devoted to President Trump.
During the three-plus months between late July 2016 and Election Day in early November of that year, the ABC, NBC, and CBS evening newscasts included 726 negative statements about Trump, vs. 95 positive statements—a ratio of 88% negative to 12% positive. And Trump hadn’t even been elected yet.
Things really heated up during Trump’s first calendar year in office—from his January 20, 2017 inauguration through December 31, 2017—when the three network evening newscasts devoted an astounding total of 99 hours and 3 minutes of airtime to 3,430 storiesfocusingeither on President Trump or his administration. Most of these were stories designed to shred the president and his reputation. As MRC reported: “Our analysts catalogued 5,883 evaluative statements about the President or his administration from either reporters, anchors or non-partisan sources such as experts or voters. Only about 10% of those comments (617) were positive, compared with 5,266 (90%) which were negative — an unparalleled level of media hostility for a President in his first year in office.”
2018 broughtmore of the same, as the three network evening newscasts devoted almost 87 hours of coverage to the Trump presidency. The tone of that coverage, said MRC, remained “incessantly hostile: 90% negative, vs. just 10% positive.”
And 2019 has been no different. AsBrent Bozellof MRC wrote this past June: “Month after month going back to the start of his campaign, without interruption, [Trump’s] coverage on evening newscasts has hovered around 90% negative.” During the seven-week period from the September 24th launch of the Democrats’ impeachment inquiry through November 12th, the coverage of Trump was even more hostile than normal: Out of 684 evaluative comments that were made on the ABC, CBS and NBC evening newscasts,reportsNewsBusters.org, 96% were negative and 4% were positive. In other words, the average American viewer virtuallyneverheard even a single positive whisper about President Trump or his policies.Never.
Remember When Trump Mocked the DisabledNew York TimesReporter?
One of the earliest flurries of condemnation that media outlets nationwide aimed at Donald Trump occurred in November of 2015—a full year prior to the 2016 presidential election—when myriad headlines and news stories reported that then-candidate Trump, during a political rally in South Carolina, had callously mocked the disability of a physically handicappedNew York Timesreporter, SergeKovaleski.You can probably recall hearing about how Trump, in front of a large crowd of supporters, had waved his arms and hands spasmodically to mimic the herky-jerky movements of the reporter, while also adopting a vocal cadence that suggested incoherence and abnormality.
The Washington Post, theHuffington Post, andPoliticoall ranheadlinesstating, “Trump Mocks Disabled Reporter.” AChicago Tribunecaption blared: “TrumpMocksNew York TimesReporter with Disability.” And aNew York Timesheadline called it “Mockery, Plain and Simple.” Similar headlines were splashed across the front pages of countless other publications from coast to coast.
Not surprisingly, a large number of congressional Democrats joined the news media in eviscerating Trump for his bad manners and childish intemperance. Some examples:
*At the 2016 Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia, Bill Clinton proudlynotedthat his wife “never made fun of people with disabilities,” but instead “tried to empower them based on their ability.”
*Former Democrat Senator Tom Harkin righteouslypronouncedthat “Democrats believe in working together and bringing people with disabilities in to develop policy,” while Trump was little more than an obnoxious “throwback” to the unenlightened mores of “half a century ago.”
*During the third presidential debate between Trump and Hillary Clinton, Mrs. Clintonscoldedher opponent for having so crudely “mocked and mimicked” a “disabled reporter” on “national television.”
*And Rep. Maxine Waters, marking the 27th anniversary of the signing of the Americans With Disabilities Act, said in July 2017: “Our presidentindicatedto us what he thinks about people with disabilities long before he was elected, when he mocked a disabled reporter. Mocking the disabled is rude and insensitive and it sends a terrible message to our children.”
Hollywood, too, was filled with people outraged by Trump’s indelicacies.
* During remarks she delivered at the Golden Globe Awards ceremony in January 2017, actressMeryl Streepshed tears as sherecalledhow “stunned” she had felt “when the person asking to sit in the most respected seat in our country imitated a disabled reporter.” “[T]his instinct to humiliate,” she elaborated, “when it’s modeled … by someone powerful, it filters down into everybody’s life, because it kind of gives permission for other people to do the same thing.”
* Some time later, actor Michael J. Fox, who suffers from Parkinson’s Disease and is well acquainted with the distress associated with involuntary body convulsions,said: “One thing that angered me is when [Trump] mocked that reporter. That was a stab to the guts. Not just for me, but for people I know and work with, who try so hard to overcome other people’s atavistic aversion to anybody that moves differently. So I thought, Do I say something in response? Then I thought, people already know Trump is an [expletive].”
The Clintons, Harkin, Waters, Streep, and Fox had plenty of company in the revulsion they felt regarding Trump’s insensitive antics. In aBloomberg Newspolltaken just a few weeks before the 2016 election, likely voters who were asked to identify what bothered them most about Mr. Trump,citedhis mockery of the disabled reporter more often than anything else.
There’s just one stubborn little fact, however, which probably merits at least a passing mention at this point: Not a single word regarding Trump’s mockery of a reporter’s physical disability, was true. Not a syllable. Not a breath. The entire story was a carefully and maliciously fabricated lie. Not an exaggeration. Not a distortion. A Lie, with a capital “L.”
You see, Serge Kovaleski, the disabled reporter in question, does not suffer from Parkinson’s Disease or anything even remotely resembling it. He suffers fromarthrogryposis, a congenital condition that limits the movement of his joints and has caused his right hand to be permanently frozen in place, sharply angled at the wrist. He does not wave either of his arms around involuntarily when he talks. Quite the opposite: his right arm is actually rigid and motionless. Moreover, he speaks with a perfectlynormal cadence, bearing no resemblance whatsoever to Trump’s presentation.
Trump was not mocking Kovaleski for his disability. He was mocking Kovaleski for appearing to back away, for fear of public criticism, from something which he had reported some years earlier. The gestures and cadence that Trump’s critics objected to, are simply Trump’s way of mimickinganyonewho seems to be flustered or fearful when confronted with certain discomfiting facts. Indeed, with just a little bit of research, anyone who actually had an interest in knowing the truth could have learned that Trump, on a number of other occasions, had usedthose same gestures and affectationsto mock people who werenotphysically handicapped in any way. Those targets included, among others, Republican Senator Ted Cruz, Democrat consultant Donna Brazile, Obama-era military generals, and certain American bank executives. In fact, there is even video footage of Trumpmockinghimselfin a similar, self-deprecating manner.
Trump the “Racist”
The certitude with which Trump’s critics have falsely and slanderously condemned the president for making fun of Kovaleski’s handicap, calls to mind a trenchant observation that the late Ronald Reagan oncemade: “The trouble with our Liberal friends is not that they’re ignorant; it’s just that they know so much that isn’t so.” And this, of course, begs an important question: Might some other articles of faith regarding Trump’s alleged character flaws be untrue as well?
It is almost impossible to watch a major television network news broadcast, or read a major newspaper, or even view a late-night comedy program on TV, without hearing or seeing something about what a crooked, incompetent, scheming, deranged, misogynistic, Islamophobic, xenophobic, sociopathic, fascistic, ignorant racist Mr. Trump is. These media portrayals of Trump are very much in line with how Hillary Clinton famously described Trump’s backers in a speech at a September 2016 political fundraiser in New York City, where shesaid: “You know, to just be grossly generalistic, you could put half of Trump’s supporters into what I call the basket of deplorables. Right? The racist, sexist, homophobic, xenophobic, Islamophobic—you name it. And unfortunately there are people like that. And he [Trump] has lifted them up.”
It would not be possible, of course, to unpack and evaluateallof thecountless thousandsof charges accusing Trump of various moral deficiencies like those enumerated by Mrs. Clinton. Thus, let us restrict our focus, for now, to the most noteworthy charges of “racism” that have been leveled at the president. What we learn about the veracity—or inveracity—of those particular charges, will teach us a great deal about how much, or how little, credence we should give to the other accusations. Below are just a few examples of Trump’s critics characterizing him as a racist:
Trump and the Neo-Nazis in Charlottesville
To “prove” their assertion that Mr. Trump is a racist, the president’s accusers are invariably armed with a lengthy list of supposedly bigoted remarks which he has made. To help the American public focus on the most highly objectionable of those remarks,New York Timeswriters David Leonhardt and Ian Prasad Philbrick have published a significant article—which they update periodically—titled “Donald Trump’s Racism: The Definitive List.”
Not surprisingly, thisTimespiece cites, among many other things, the allegedly racist remarks that Trump made in the aftermath of the infamous August 12, 2017 “Unite The Right” rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. In terms of laying bare the modus operandi by which Trump has routinely been painted as a racist, Charlottesville is the Rosetta Stone.
First, a bit of context: The Charlottesville event was originally organized for the very explicit purpose of protesting the proposed removal, from a local park, of an equestrian statue of Confederate General Robert E. Lee. According to various reports, the protesters were composed of two very distinct and dissimilar contingents of people: (a)aggressiveand hateful white supremacists with neo-Nazi sympathies, and (b)otherswho had no racial or anti-Semitic animus and simply wished to voice their disapproval regarding the Lee statue’s removal. The former contingent was personified by the members of a group calledIdentity Evropa, who chanted white nationalist slogans like “You will not replace us.” The latter contingentconsistedof people like Michelle Piercy, a Kansas resident who made the long drive to Charlottesville with a conservative group that was in favor of leaving the Lee statue in place. As aNew York Timespiece noted, Ms. Piercy made it clear that she and her companions “had no interest in standing with Nazis or white supremacists.” It is difficult to ascertain with any precision the relative numbers of people in each contingent.
Meanwhile, a large group of counter-protesterslikewiseincluded two very distinct and dissimilar contingents: (a) those who supported the statue’s removal and wished to make their feelings known in a nonviolent public forum, and (b) hundreds of people who were affiliated withAntifa, a revolutionary Marxist/anarchist militia movement.
Some background information about Antifa is necessary at this point:
– – – – –
On the morning of Saturday, August 12, 2017 in Charlottesville, the most radical and combustible elements on both sides of the Lee statue debate began to engage in violence against one another. By noon—at which time the rally was scheduled to begin—both the City of Charlottesville and the Governor of Virginia had declared a state of emergency due to the “imminent threat” of potential injuries and property destruction, and police cleared the scene of all persons. Then, at about 1:40 p.m., a deranged white supremacist rammed his car into a crowd of counter-protesters who were still in the vicinity, killing one white woman and injuring numerous other people. President Trump issued a brief statement later that same day, followed by additional remarks over the course of the ensuing three days. Those remarks sent the Left into a frenzy of vitriolic outrage. Just a few examples:
*The Washington Postcomplained: “Trump didn’t call out white supremacists.”*MSNBC’s Nicolle Wallacestatedthat the president, with his words, had “given safe harbor to Nazis, to white supremacists.”*The New York Timesran aheadline: “Trump Gives White Supremacists Unequivocal Boost.”* AGQmagazine headlinedeclared: “White Supremacists Love How Donald Trump Handled Charlottesville.”
What, exactly, did President Trump say to elicit such responses? Did he in fact voice sympathy or support for neo-Nazis and racists? Let’s examine the evidence, piece by piece.
Just hours after the deadly violence of August 12, Trumpissueda short statement saying: “We condemn in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry, and violence on many sides—on many sides. It’s been going on for a long time in our country. Not Donald Trump. Not Barack Obama. It’s been going on for a long, long time.”
The following day—August 13—a White House spokesperson issued a follow-up statement: “The president said very strongly in his statement yesterday that he condemns all forms of violence, bigotry, and hatred, and of course that includes white supremacists, KKK, neo-Nazi and all extremist groups. He called for national unity and bringing all Americans together.”
The day after that—August 14—President Trump made a televised statement in which hesaid:
“No matter the color of our skin, we all live under the same laws, we all salute the same great flag, and we are all made by the same almighty God. We must love each other, show affection for each other, and unite together in condemnation of hatred, bigotry, and violence. We must rediscover the bonds of love and loyalty that bring us together as Americans.
“Racism is evil. And those who cause violence in its name are criminals and thugs, including the KKK, neo-Nazis, white supremacists and other hate groups that are repugnant to everything we hold dear as Americans…. Those who spread violence in the name of bigotry strike at the very core of America.”
Hmmm…. So where, exactly, was the “racism” to which the aforementioned news sources were objecting? Don’t feel too badly if you missed it. Because in order to have seen it, you’d have toreally have wantedto see it, even if you had to twist the meaning of Trump’s words inside-out in the process. What the critics found most objectionable was that Trump, by using the phrase “on many sides” on August 12, had chosen not to restrict his condemnation solely to the detestable white supremacists in Charlottesville, but had also placed some blame at the feet of the equally detestable Marxist/anarchist Antifa counter-protesters.
And that, to Trump’s critics, was unacceptable. As CNN anchorDon Lemonput it: “There is a difference between the two groups: one is a Nazi supremacist group. What they want to do and in their hearts is extinguish … Jewish people, black people, even women…. The other [Antifa] is a protest group protesting a political and a racist movement. I’m not saying that group [Antifa], all of their tactics were right, but they were there protesting hate in America.” In other words, even though Antifa is firmly, candidly, and proudly committed to the use of violence to promote Marxism and anarchism across the United States, Mr. Lemon was content to dutifully and compliantly characterize the thugs of Antifa as noble-spirited opponents of “hate” and “fascism.”
Then, on August 15, President Trump held atelevised press conferencewhere he spoke at greater length about the events of August 12 in Charlottesville. Below is a compilation ofallthe relevant remarks which he made to the reporters:
– – – – –
Also during his August 15 press conference, Trumpassertedthat on the University of Virginia campus on Friday night, August 11—some fourteen hours prior to the scheduled start of the infamous August 12 rally—there had been another group of “people protesting very quietly the taking down of the statue of Robert E. Lee.” Critics subsequently castigated Trump for saying this, in light of the fact that many of those in the Friday-night crowd had loudly shouted anti-Semitic slogans and engaged in physical violence when confronted by counter-protesters. But the president never suggested thatallof the Friday-night marchers had been “quiet” and cool-headed. Indeed,his very next sentencewas this: “I’m sure in that group there were some bad ones.”
Above all else, following the August 15 press conference, Trump’s detractors zeroed in mainly on his assertion that there had been “blame on both sides,” as well as some “very fine people on both sides,” at the site of the August 12 protest. These grievances against Trump have persisted undiminished through the two-plus years since Charlottesville.
– – – – –
It would be difficult to conceive of a more dishonest, deceitful characterization of Trump’s comments, than what O’Rourke and Biden claim in the quotes above.
Trumpexplicitly, unmistakably, and repeatedlydenounced “neo-Nazis,” “KKK,” “white supremacists,” and “white nationalists”—by name—in the course of his remarks on August 14andAugust 15, 2017. He openly described them as “rough, bad people” who “should be condemned totally.” Nevertheless, it is quite evident that his criticsvery much want—and very much need—to believe that the president somehow endorsed the racist impulses of such human filth. For without willfully misrepresenting what Trump so clearly said, it would beimpossibleto read racism into his remarks.
It is equally impossible for any honest observer to read anti-Semitism—yet another defining hallmark of neo-Nazis—into Trump’s post-Charlottesville comments. But this has not prevented the president’s critics from accusing him of precisely that offense. AVox.compiece, for instance, notes that among those who attended the “Unite The Right” rally were such despicable characters as Mike ‘Enoch’ Peinovich, “founder of the neo-Nazi podcastThe Daily Shoah(an insulting reference to the Holocaust)”; “internet figure and noted anti-Semite Baked Alaska”; “fellow anti-Semite andDaily Shoahcontributor Johnny Monoxide”; “neo-Nazi Christopher Cantwell,” known for publicly chanting “Jews will notreplaceus!”; and Michael Hill, “who lambasted ‘organized Jewry’” on Facebook. Further,Vox.comtakes pains to point out thatThe Daily Stormer, a neo-Nazi website, touted its own involvement in “Unite The Right” by creating a poster that featured the image of a man using a sledge hammer to smash a Star of David.
It seems not to have occurred to any of those who claim that Trump lauded neo-Nazis in Charlottesville as “very fine people,” that Trump has very demonstrably been a more loyal and stalwart friend to Israel and the Jewish people than any other president in American history. Consider just a few salient facts:
– – – – –
In addition to the foregoing considerations, is the very relevant fact that President Trump’s own daughter, Ivanka, his son-in-law Jared Kushner, and three of his grandchildren, are orthodox Jews. The notion that Mr. Trump harbors even the barest shred of sympathy for neo-Nazis and other Jew-haters, ranks among the most ludicrous charges ever leveled against an American political figure.
But that has not stopped the authors of “Donald Trump’s Racism: The Definitive List” from absurdly claiming:
“Trump has trafficked in anti-Semitic caricatures, including the tweeting of a six-pointed star alongside a pile of cash. He has also been reluctant to condemn anti-Semitic attacks on journalists from his supporters, and he echoed neo-Nazi conspiracy theories by saying that Hillary Clinton ‘meets in secret with international banks to plot the destruction of U.S. sovereignty in order to enrich these global financial powers, her special interest friends and her donors’.”
“Animals” at the Border
“Donald Trump’s Racism: The Definitive List” notes that “during a White House meeting in 2018, he [Trump] referred to some undocumented immigrants as ‘animals.’” To buttress that claim, the authors provide a link to a May 16, 2018New York Timesarticlethat begins as follows: “President Trump lashed out at undocumented immigrants during a White House meeting on Wednesday, warning in front of news cameras that dangerous people were clamoring to breach the country’s borders and branding such people ‘animals.’”
Similarly, a May 17, 2018 story on the National Public Radio website ran theheadline: “During Roundtable, Trump Calls Some Unauthorized Immigrants ‘Animals’.” And anarticleinUSA Todaystarted with these words:
“President Trump used extraordinarily harsh rhetoric to renew his call for stronger immigration laws Wednesday, calling undocumented immigrants ‘animals’ and venting frustration at Mexican officials who he said ‘do nothing’ to help the United States. ‘We have people coming into the country or trying to come in, we’re stopping a lot of them, but we’re taking people out of the country. You wouldn’t believe how bad these people are,’ Trump said. ‘These aren’t people. These are animals.’”
Congressional Democrats, too, were quick to complain about Trump having equated immigrants with “animals.”
Nor has the passage of time done anything to diminish the Democrats’ passion for denouncing Trump’s “animals” remark:
– – – – –
From reading or hearing the foregoing characterizations of Trump’s comments, one would have absolutely no idea that the president’s reference to “animals” was actually made in direct response to Fresno County Sheriff Margaret Mims’ complaint that immigration-law restrictions were preventing her from informing federal authorities that certain deportable, illegal-alien members of the brutally violent MS-13 gang were being housed, at that very moment, in a Fresno prison. “There could bean MS-13 member I know about—if they don’t reach a certain threshold, I cannot tell ICE [Immigration & Customs Enforcement] about it,” said an exasperated Mims. It was in response tothatstatement, that Trump made the “animals” remark quoted inUSA Today: “You wouldn’t believe how bad these people are. These aren’t people. These are animals.” To anyhonestobserver, it would have been quite obvious that Trump was not referring to “undocumented” or “unauthorized” immigrants generally,but to MS-13 members specifically.
Of course, some readers might wonder if—even in light of this added context—President Trump’s remarks may have been unnecessarily immoderate. Decide for yourself:
– – – – –
These horrific anecdotes, coupled with the broader statistics pertaining to MS-13’s prevalence in the United States, serve as strong evidence that Trump’s assessment of the gang’s members was in fact wholly justified, and that the accounts of his comments—by media outlets and elected Democrats alike—were as thoroughly dishonest as can possibly be imagined.
An “Infestation” of Illegal Immigrants
“Donald Trump’s Racism: The Definitive List” claims that during a White House meeting in 2018, President Trump said that unless stronger border-control policies were adopted, “undocumented immigrants … would ‘pour into and infest our country.’”
In response to Trump’s remark, CNNreportedthat “President Donald Trump amplified his heated immigration rhetoric … accusing Democrats of wanting migrants to ‘infest our country’ and turning a speech on the economy into an angry tirade defending his harsh stance.” In a similar vein, aBuzzfeed Newsstorybegan: “President Donald Trump on Tuesday equated migrants and refugees to the United States with vermin who will ‘pour into and infest our country.’” And aheadlineinThe Atlantic Monthlyread: “Trump Says Democrats Want Immigrants to ‘Infest’ the U.S.” The accompanying subtitle said: “What are infestations? They are takeovers by vermin, rodents, insects. What does one do with an infestation? Why, one exterminates it.”
But lo and behold, it turns out that, once again, Trump was most definitelynottalking about “immigrants”—or even “undocumented immigrants” —generally. He was speakingvery specificallyaboutMS-13 members and their ilk. It’s not difficult to figure this out. All you have to do is read the president’s actual words: “Democrats are theproblem. They don’t care about crime and want illegal immigrants, no matter how bad they may be, to pour into and infest our country, like MS-13.”
Illegal Immigration and “Infectious Disease”
“Donald Trump’s Racism: The Definitive List” also reports that President Trump, during that same White House meeting in 2018, “claimed, without evidence, that migrants were bringing diseases into the country.”
“Without evidence”? Consider some highly pertinent facts, as related by authorDaniel Horowitzon March 7, 2019:
“On Tuesday, Customs and Border Protection Commissioner KevinMcAleenanannouncedthe building of a new facility to deal with the health crisis of those coming over the border and surrendering themselves to agents. A whopping 31,000 medical referrals were made for illegal aliens this year, straining our hospitals and local county emergency medical personnel, up from 12,000 last year…. Over the past few months, there have been numerous cases of chicken pox, tuberculosis, scabies, and lice among the migrants…. A rotating medical team near the southern California border reportedly discovered hundreds of cases of communicable diseases and other conditions in the first two months of 2019.”
Horowitz further notes that according to the Centers for Disease Control, “Guatemalans are 83 times more likely to have tuberculosis than Americans, and seven times more likely than legal immigrants.” He also cites a Tijuana Health Department report indicating that fully one-third of the members of a large, U.S.-bound migrant caravan had required treatment, during a temporary stayover in Tijuana, for a wide variety of health issues including tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS, chicken pox, lice, skin infections, and hepatitis.
In a similar vein, a March 2019Reutersreportstates: “U.S. Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Kevin McAleenan told reporters that changing demographics on the southwest border, with more immigrants from Central America traveling long distances, overwhelmed border officials and raised health concerns. ‘We are seeing migrants arrive with illnesses and medical conditions in unprecedented numbers,’ McAleenan said at a press conference.”
There is absolutely nothing “racist” about President Trump pointing out the very obvious and demonstrable fact that a porous, unregulated border tends to increase the likelihood that infectious diseases will be introduced needlessly into the United States.Nothing.
Mexican Immigrants As “Criminals” and “Rapists”
“Donald Trump’s Racism: The Definitive List” informs us that Mr. Trump “began his 2016 presidential campaign with a speech disparaging Mexican immigrants as criminals and ‘rapists.’”
Is that characterization of Trump’s remarks accurate? The fullcontextof his comments is as follows:
“When do we beat Mexico at the border? They’re laughing at us, at our stupidity. And now they are beating us economically. They are not our friend, believe me. But they’re killing us economically. The U.S. has become a dumping ground for everybody else’s problems…. When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending their best…. They’re sending people that have lots of problems, and they’re bringing those problems with [to] us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people. But I speak to border guards and they tell us what we’re getting. And it only makes common sense. It only makes common sense. They’re sending us not the right people. It’s coming from more than Mexico. It’s coming from all over South and Latin America, and it’s coming probably—probably—from the Middle East. But we don’t know. Because we have no [border] protection and we have no competence, we don’t know what’s happening [at the border]. And it’s got to stop and it’s got to stop fast.”
In the excerpt above, President Trump explicitly mentions the “border” by name, twice. Plus, he makes very obvious references to the border two additional times (see the bracketed inserts). In other words, he quite clearly is not “disparaging Mexican immigrants” who enter the country through lawful channels. He is describing people who choose to cross the U.S.-Mexico border illegally, in open and contemptuous defiance of America’s immigration laws.
As for the substance of Trump’s remarks vis-à-vis the nature of the illegal border-crossers, consider the following pertinent facts:
– – – – –
In short, President Trump’s assertions about illegal border-crossers were notably accurate. There was nothing “racist” about his remarks at all.
“Criminals and Unknown Middle Easterners”
“Donald Trump’s Racism: The Definitive List” complains that “Trump regularly demonized dark-skinned immigrants before the 2018 midterm elections,” and that he said “a caravan of migrants traveling through Mexico” included, as the president put it, “criminals and unknown Middle Easterners.”
The caravan in question—composed of thousands of people from Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador who had candidly announced their intention of gaining illegal entry into the United States—was organized by Pueblo Sin Fronteras (PSF), a nonprofit organization whose name means “People Without Borders.” Pledging to “turn down border walls imposed by greed,” PSF’s overriding objective is to “abolishborders” and facilitate the free, unregulated movement of Central American migrants into the United States. The executive director of PSF is Emma Lozano, a left-wing activist whose nephew is the Communist Party USA / Young Communist League operativePepe Lozano.
In November2018, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen stated that hundreds of the 10,000-or-so migrants in the aforementioned U.S.-bound caravan were already convicted criminals in their countries of origin. “[W]e cannot confirm the backgrounds and identities of all caravan members which possess a national security and public safety risk to our country,” wrote Nielsen. “However, at this point we have confirmed that there are over 600 convicted criminals traveling with the caravan flow. This includes individuals known to law enforcement for assault, battery, drug crimes, burglary, rape, child abuse and more. This is serious. Additionally, Mexico has already arrested 100 caravan members for criminal violations in Mexico.”
As for Trump’s suggestion that “unknown Middle Easterners” could be among the people capable of crossing America’s southern border illegally, aClarion Projectreportstates the following:
“Iran and its terror proxy Hezbollah are financing Mexican drug cartels, smuggling people into America and recruiting them (for pay) as sleeper jihadist cells. The recruits are mainly immigrants to Mexico from the Middle East, mostly from Lebanon where Hezbollah is based. The coordinated operation is part of Iran’s war on America….
“In southern Chiapas in Mexico, there are Muslim communities … made up of Syrians and Lebanese who migrated to Mexico decades ago as well as recent Mexican converts to Islam. In addition, Islam is gaining a foothold and in southern Mexico, with indigenous Mayans converting by the hundreds. These communities are funded in the Diaspora and all contain sleeper cells. With the help of Mexican drug cartels, they finance and traffic extremists to the United States….”
“Shithole Countries” and “Chain Migration”
“Donald Trump’s Racism: The Definitive List” reminds us of a January 2018 controversy where it was alleged that President Trump—at an immigration-related meeting with a handful of senators at the White House—had “vulgarly called for less immigration from Haiti and Africa and more from Norway.” This story had its roots in an unsubstantiated report by Democrat Senator Dick Durbin, who was present at the White House meeting and subsequently told reporters that the president had referred to a number of poverty-stricken, terrorism-ravaged nations as “shithole countries”SaidDurbin:
“In the course of his comments of said things which were hate-filled, vile and racist—he [Trump] used those words [‘shithole countries]. I understand how powerful they are. But I cannot believe that in the history of the White House, in that Oval Office, any president has ever spoken words that I personally heard our president speak yesterday…. He said these hate-filled things. And he said them repeatedly. When the question was raised about Haitians, for example, we have a group that have temporary protected status in the United States because they were the victims of crises and disasters and political upheaval. The largest group’s El Salvadorians. The second is Honduran and the third is Haitian.”
Trump denied having used the term that Durbin claimed to find so objectionable. But even if the president had in fact used it—in a closed-door meeting where he was speaking frankly with fellow governmental leaders, and not in a public forum of any kind—would that really have been such terrible thing? It simply is not credible that Durbin, a grown man who has been immersed in Washington bareknuckle politics since 1983, felt offended by a bit of salty language from an American president. If the senator objected so strongly to such modes of expression, why had he not raised his voice in protest after then-President Barack Obama told anAtlanticmagazine interviewer in 2016 that the nation of Libya—which was replete with ISIS terrorists and was in a state of political and economic chaos—had devolved into a “shit show.”?
Durbin’s purported sensitivity to Trump’s remarks seems even less credible in light of the fact that the senator is a member of the Democratic Party, whose members routinely—and very publicly—characterize the United States as a nation replete with racism, sexism, white supremacy, economic injustice, greed, Islamophobia, homophobia, transphobia, and misogyny. What arethesecharacterizations, if not the very definitions of what one might term a “shithole country”? Are we to believe that just because an endless barrage of Democrat smears against a particular nation are articulated in leftist jargon, they are somehow less objectionable than a smear spoken in a cruder vernacular by a Republican?
Casting further doubt on Durbin’s assertion that Trump’s words had inflicted such distress upon him, is the fact that the senator also claimed to have been deeply offended by Trump’s use, in the same closed-door meeting, of the term “chain migration”—a policy permitting newly naturalized citizens (including newly amnestied illegal aliens) to bring their extended family members to the United States. As Durbin told reporters after the meeting: “When it came to the issue of, quote, ‘chain migration,’ I said to the president, do you realize how painful that term is to so many people? African-Americans believe they migrated to America in chains and when you talk about chain migration, it hurts them personally.” But the senator’s complaints ring pathetically hollow, when we consider the fact that Durbinhimselfhad very openlyusedthetermon past occasions.
Durbin’s feigned outrage regarding “chain migration” wasmimickedby a number of congressional Democrats. Rep Chris Murphy of Connecticut, for one, tweeted that “‘chain migration’ is a made-up term” by which “the hard-line anti-immigration crowd” aims to “dehumanize immigrants.” In a similar spirit, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York said: “Let’s be very clear: When someone uses the phrase ‘chain migration,’ it is intentional in trying to …demonizefamilies and make it a racist slur.”
But as authorJonah Goldberghas pointed out, the protestations of Durbin, Murphy, Gillibrand, and their ilk amount to nothing more than a pack of lies promulgated by a band of attention-seeking drama queens. Writes Goldberg:
“According to the academic database JSTOR, there are hundreds of scholarly papers using the term, beginning in 1942. It came into wider circulation in the 1960s, no doubt because immigration policy was radically changed in 1965. LexisNexis dates the first appearance in a 1982New York Timesarticle about urbanization in India. Though that is probably because its database largely begins about then. The term wasn’t simply used about immigration issues in America but for migration patterns in other countries. Search for the term ‘chain migration’ at the Census Bureau’s website and you’ll find scads of reports and papers using the term, many of which were produced under the Obama administration.”
And finally, lest we get completely sidetracked by the question of what is, or is not, acceptable language for a closed-door meeting between a president and a group of senators, what can we say about thesubstanceof Trump’sallegedreference to “shithole countries”? If Trump indeed were to have disparaged the countries cited by Durbin—El Salvador, Honduras, Haiti, and certain unnamed African nations—would there have been any merit to those criticisms? Let’s take a look:
– – – – –
Would President Trump—or any other political figure, for that matter—be justified in suggesting that it might be imprudent for America to import large numbers of people from such nations? You can decide for yourself.
Calling African Americans Unintelligent or Racist
“Donald Trump’s Racism: The Definitive List” says that Trump “has a pattern of criticizing African-Americans as unintelligent.” This item links to an August 3, 2018tweetwhere Trump wrote: “Lebron James was just interviewed by the dumbest man on television, Don Lemon. He made Lebron look smart, which isn’t easy to do.” Numerous leftists joined the authors of “The Definitive List” in ascribing Trump’s remarks about James and Lemon, to racism. For example:
But the notion that Trump portrays onlyblackpeople as unintelligent is patently untrue. For example, he has referred to bothJoe BidenandRobert De Niro—a pair of white men—as “low-IQ” individuals. And he has used suchtermsas “stupid,” “dumb,” and “dumb as a rock” todescribeadditional whites like Rex Tillerson, Mika Brzezinski, Rick Wilson, Chris Matthews, Bill Maher, Jonah Goldberg, Jeb Bush, Rick Perry, Mitt Romney, Lindsey Graham, and George Will.
Disparaging “Heavily Black American Cities”
“Donald Trump’s Racism: The Definitive List” says of Trump: “He often casts heavily black American cities as dystopian war zones. In a 2016 debate with Hillary Clinton, Trump said, ‘Our inner cities, African Americans, Hispanics are living in hell because it’s so dangerous. You walk down the street, you get shot.’ Trump also said to black voters: ‘You’re living in poverty; your schools are no good; you have no jobs.’”
First of all, it is indeed strange to see Trump criticized for making supposedly “racist” comments like these, when a multitude of Democrats in Congresshave been saying the very same things for decades, lamenting the crime and poverty that afflict black communities in the U.S. from coast to coast. During a visit to West Baltimore in 2015, for instance, Senator Bernie Sanderssaid: “Anyone who took the walk that we took around this neighborhood would not think you’re in a wealthy nation. You would think that you were in a Third World country.” Sanders also called it “a disgrace” that Baltimore was “a community in which half of the people don’t have jobs,” where “there are hundreds of buildings that are uninhabitable,” and where poor people “have lifespans shorter than people living under dictatorship in North Korea.”
Is Bernie Sanders a “racist” for having made these very plain and accurate observations?
The facts, unfortunately, are not on the Democrats’ side. In city after city where Democrats have been in charge politically for an extended period of time, we find exceedingly high—indeed, often colossal—levels of poverty and crime. And the longer those Democrats have been in charge, the worse the conditions tend to be. In short, Democrats have transformed a host of once-great metropolises into urban prisons where the common man—particularly the black and Hispanic common man on whose behalf Democrats typically claim to speak—has been grievously harmed by one destructive Democratic policy after another.
Of the 50 U.S. cities that: (a) have the highest violent crime rates, (b) have a population of at least 25,000, and (c) are governed by mayors who are clearly identifiable as either Democrats or Republicans,48 are currently headed by Democratic mayors and administrations; only 2 are led by Republicans.
Similarly, of the 50 American cities with (a) the highest poverty rates, (b) populations of 60,000 or more, and (c) mayors who are clearly identifiable as either Democrats or Republicans,46 have Democratic mayors; only 4 are governed by Republicans.
Democrats typically congratulate themselves for being the only party truly concerned with education—especially of the underprivileged—and they regularly attack conservatives and Republicans for their “callous indifference” to the scholastic needs of minority children. But it has been on the Democrats’ watch, that inner-city kids have fallen further and further behind academically. In big city after big city whose politics are dominated by Democrats, the public-school systems are mired in fiscal profligacy, bureaucratic bloat, and academic failure. It is not at all uncommon for these school districts to spend extravagant sums of money—often as much as $15,000 to $25,000 per student annually—only to have fewer than 15% of those students emerge after 12 years of “education” with even the barest shred of proficiency in reading, math, and science.
Calling Afghanistan a “Terrorist Haven”
In anarticletitled “Trump’s Full List of ‘Racist’ Comments about Immigrants, Muslims, and Others,”Newsweekmagazine complains that the president once “said that Afghanistan is a ‘terrorist haven.’” In the interests of accuracy, it should be noted that Trump himself did not actually use the term “terrorist haven”; those words were taken, byNewsweek, from aNew York Timesarticlethat said: “Mr. Trump then began reading aloud from the document, which … listed how many immigrants had received visas to enter the United States in 2017. More than 2,500 were from Afghanistan, a terrorist haven, the president complained.”
But regardless of whatever specific words Trump may have used, there is absolutely nothing “racist” about his claim regarding rampant terrorism in Afghanistan. Any honest assessment of that nation’s political and social climate will attest to the fact that it is the very embodiment of a terrorist haven. Consider, for instance, that the CIAlistsno fewer than eight terrorist organizations as currently active in Afghanistan:
– – – – –
In August 2019,The Diplomatreportedthat the terror threat in Afghanistan is even broader than that, stating:
“The UN assesses that the Taliban is the ‘primary partner’ of a variety of terrorist groups: al-Qaeda, the Haqqani Network, Lashkar-e-Taiba, the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (non-ISKP faction), and the Turkestan Islamic Party, ‘as well as nearly 20 other regionally and globally focused groups’ in Afghanistan. Al-Qaeda and ISKP both consider Afghanistan an important region to recuperate and plan their next phase of operations.”
The “Muslim Ban”
By now, virtually every American has heard about Donald Trump’s infamous “Muslim ban.” If you Google the phrase “Trump and ‘Muslim ban’,” you’ll get well over 1.2 million search results. The term “Muslim ban” refers to the fact that President Trump, professing a desire “to keep radical Islamic terrorists out of the United States of America,” issued a January 2017executive ordercalling for: (a) a four-month suspension of almost all travel and refugee admissions to the U.S. from six nations that were hotbeds of Islamic terrorism: Iran, Iraq, Somalia, Libya, Sudan and Yemen; (b) an indefinite suspension of admissions from Syria, where widespread terrorism was exacerbated by a bloody civil war; and (c) an “extreme vetting” process for any and all immigrants and visitors to the U.S.
And how, exactly, did President Trump select the seven aforementioned Muslim-majority countries as targets for his executive action? Actually, hechoseprecisely the same seven countriesthat had been named in the Visa Waiver Program Improvement & Terrorist Travel Prevention Act, which passed easily through Congress and was signed into law by President Obama in December 2015. Moreover, Trump’s instinct for caution was supported by previous statements that had been issued by a number of high-ranking Obama officials—including FBI DirectorJames Comey, Homeland Security SecretaryJeh Johnson, CIA DirectorJohn Brennan, and FBI Deputy Assistant DirectorMichael Steinbach—all of whom were in agreement that it would be impossible for U.S. immigration authorities to reliably screen out terrorists posing as refugees.
Nevertheless, the reaction to Trump’s executive order—by media outlets and Democrat legislators alike—was pure, unrestrained, venomous outrage. During Trump’s first week in office,The New York Timespublishedan opinion piece under the headline: “Donald Trump’s Muslim Ban Is Cowardly and Dangerous.” TheTimesalso ran a video feature titled “World Reaction to Trump’s Muslim Ban,” which showed a selection of people from across the globe explaining, with unanimity, that Trump’s proposed policy was a “really crazy,” “inhumane,” and “totally unacceptable” “media stunt” rooted in a strain of “racial discrimination” that was contrary to “American values.”
These types of headlines and news items have continued, without pause, ever since. And Democrat politicians have been exceedingly eager to lend their voices to the chorus. Bernie Sanders, for one, hasdescribedwhat he calls Trump’s “Muslim ban” as a “racist and anti-Islamic” outgrowth of “fear, racism and xenophobia.” According to former Vice President Joe Biden: “President Trump’s travel ban—the Muslim ban—remains one of hismostegregious attacks on our core values. Spewing the politics of fear & slandering an entire religious community as complicit in terrorism is wrong & goes against everything we stand for.”
But the notion that Trump’s executive order amounted to a “Muslim ban” is wholly inconsistent with reality. While the order originally affected 7 majority-Muslim nations with an aggregate population of approximately 227 million people, it had no effect whatsoever on themore-than-40other majority-Muslim nations around the world, or the 1.6 billion people who inhabit them.
In September 2017, the Trump administrationissueda revised version of the original executive order banning travel from certain countries. The nations included in the new list were: Iran, Libya, Somalia, Syria, Yemen, Chad (which was later dropped from the list), North Korea, and Venezuela. Though the latter two nations have almost no Muslims in their respective populations, Trump’s critics continue to cite the “Muslim ban” as a great affront to Islam and its people. Nor has their outrage been curtailed by the fact that the Supreme Court ruled in June 2018 that Trump’s executive order wasconstitutional.
“Ripping” Children from “The Arms of Their Parents” and Putting Them in “Cages”
From California to Texas, the southern U.S.borderseparating America from Mexico stretches 1,954 miles. Along that span, there are currently 330 officially recognized ports of entry—about one every six miles or so—where people seeking admission to the United States can lawfully present themselves and have their requests considered. If they wish to apply forasylum—i.e., refuge away from a country to which it would be too dangerous for them to return—they must prove that in their homeland they have faced persecution due to their race, religion, nationality, social-group membership, or political opinions. The pursuit of employment or “a better life” in the United States is not considered sufficient legal cause for requesting asylum.
For many years, America’s southern border has been overrun by people crossing illegally into the United States by the tens of thousands each month. For the most part, these people have chosen not to present themselves to U.S. authorities at any of the 330 official ports of entry, where they could have accessed food, water, and medical care if necessary. Instead they have elected to breach the border at locations somewhere between those ports of entry, in the midst of an arid desert, where, immediately upon planting their feet on the American side of the border with Mexico, they have activelysought outU.S. border authorities, inhopesof being taken into custody andthenapplying for asylum.Why?
Because they have understood that if they were to apply for asylum through lawful channels at official ports of entry, they would most likely bedeportedfor having no legitimate basis for making such an application. By contrast, if they could somehow manage to sneak into U.S. territorybeforemaking theirasylum requests, they were unlikely to be sent back to Mexico right away; rather, they stood a good chance of beingreleasedinto the U.S. interior, along with a notice instructing them toreportfor a formal asylum hearing at some date in the very distant future, given the massive backlog of cases in American immigration courts. This of course would give such people plenty of time to simply “disappear,” never again to be seen by U.S. immigration authorities.
When the number of apprehended illegal border-crossers reached nearly 40,000 in both March and April of 2018, the Trump administration attempted to curtail their continued entry into the U.S.  On April 6th, Attorney General Jeff Sessionsannouncedthat the government would thenceforthpursuea “zero-tolerance” policy whereby every adult caught illegally crossing the border—or even attempting to do so—would be subject to criminal prosecution, while any minor children accompanying them would be placed inshelters.
In response to this announcement, the Democratic Party launched a viciouspropaganda campaignagainst President Trump and members of his administration, accusing them of mistreating poor, defenseless migrants and their young children in the most abominable ways. Particularly widespread were charges that the administration was pursuing a policy of forced “family separation” whereby youngsters were routinely being “ripped” from the arms of their parents along the U.S.-Mexico border. Former Vice President Joe Biden, for one,denounced“this administration’s policies that literally rip babies from the arms of their mothers and fathers” as “one of the darkest moments in our history.” Senator Bernie Sanderssaid, “You don’t rip little children away from the arms of their mother.” And Senator Elizabeth Warrentolda large crowd of her supporters in Boston: “President Trump seems to think the only way to have immigration rules is [to] rip parents from their families … and to put children in cages.”
In June 2018, some 111 House Democratssigneda letter urging the top two members of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security to bar the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) from funding the enforcement of Trump’s “inhumane” and “misguided” policy of “family separation” at the border. That same month, Ron Wyden led 37 fellow Senate Democrats as well as Independents Bernie Sanders and Angus King, in sending President Trump aletterdemanding that he “rescind” his “unethical, ineffective, and inhumane” border policy because of its “traumatizing impacts” on detainees.
Supplementing these efforts weremediaoutlets nationwide, which disseminated a massive array of stories about—andimagesof—weeping mothers and children being separated from one another at America’s southern border. One of the more iconic pictures was aTimemagazine cover that showed a small girl crying in terror as she looked up at the unsympathetic face of Donald Trump, whose image had been positioned before her. The caption read, “Welcome to America.”
Absent from the foregoing condemnations of the Trump border policy was any acknowledgment of the fact that the Obama administration had likewiseseparatedmany thousands of parents from their children. The main difference is that Obama did not apply separation in a “zero-tolerance” manner, butreservedit chiefly for cases where the parents were known to have criminal backgrounds or drug involvement. Most other family units were released into the American interior, usually never to be heard from again.
Theoriginof the so-called “separation” policy dates back to the mid-1980s. Following is a brief overview of the policy’s history:
“In other words,” the Center for Immigration Studiesexplainedin February 2019, “now all minors in detention, whether or not they were with their parents, couldn’t be detained for more than three weeks. This ruling laid the groundwork for the current [policy], in which children are released while their parents can still be detained awaiting hearings—hence, the ‘separation’ of families. The alternative is simply releasing the entire family after three weeks or less.”
These were precisely the same narrow alternatives that were open to the Trump administration in April 2018, when it implemented its new “zero-tolerance” policy vis-a-vis illegal entry. On June 20, 2018, President Trump, under mounting political pressure not only from Democrats but also from members of his own party,signedan executive order ending the practice of separating children from their parents at the border, while keeping the zero-tolerance policy intact. In other words, it would now be deemed permissible to detain adult migrants and their children together indefinitely. “I didn’t like the sight or the feeling of families being separated,” said Trump. The president’s order also required the Defense Department to provide and, “if necessary,” construct facilities in which to house and care for the families.
Democrats and their mouthpieces in the leftist media were not at all mollified by Trump’s gesture, however. As House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi put it, the president’s executive order merely sought to “replaceone form of child abuse with another” by “pav[ing] the way for the long-term incarceration of families in prison-like conditions.”The Los Angeles Times, meanwhile,condemnedthe Trump administration for its continued “animus toward immigrants and its inhumane border policies.”
In other words, President Trump was going to be portrayed as a despicable, congenital “racist”no matter what he did, short of releasing every illegal border-crosser into the U.S. interior—and essentially declaring all of our nation’s immigration laws null, void, and meaningless.
Turning a Blind Eye to Trump’s Laudable Words and Deeds
While the American news media have been so intent on portraying President Trump’s every word, every action, and every breath as “racist,” they have dutifully avoided reporting on events that might contradict their carefully scripted narrative.
To cite one recent example, consider some of the profoundly positive things that Trump said in his speech to the Young Black Leadership Summit in Washington, D.C., where he was received with enormous warmth and enthusiasm, in October 2018. “[I]t is my greathonor,” the president stated, “to be with so many brilliant—and that’s what you are, brilliant, courageous, patriotic and proud Americans. Seeing all of you here today fills me with an extraordinary confidence in America’s future, and the great, great future of our country…. You are true leaders on your campuses, in your churches and in your communities.”
Don’t feel too badly if you never heard about the Young Black Leadership Summit, or about Trump’s remarks there. News reporters must have scarcely had a moment to mention the event, given the fact that they were so busy chronicling the president’s “racism” on a minute-by-minute basis.
It is also unlikely that you ever heard about President Trump’s September 10, 2019addressat the annual Historically Black Colleges & Universities (HBCU) Week Conference in Washington, D.C., where hesaidthings like this:
– – – – –
At that same event, Trump proudlyannouncedthat he had: (a) signed legislation to increase federal funding for HBCUs by a record 13%; (b) directed the entire federal government to develop a strategy to help HBCUs “receive [the] resources and support that you deserve”; (c) instructed NASA as well as the Departments of Labor and Education to recruit HBCU students and to increase apprenticeship opportunities for them; and (d) opened a White House office to coordinate and oversee these various initiatives. “Our federal budget also prioritizes HBCUs in our plan to give more students access to state-of-the-art training in high-demand fields, such as science, technology, engineering, and math,” the president noted as well.But asNational Reviewcontributing editor Deroy Murdockpoints out: “All three evening-news shows entombed this [HBCU] story. Instead, ABC spent 15 seconds on the Dallas Cowboys cheerleaders doubling their pay. CBS delivered 22 seconds on the medical benefits of twice-weekly naps. And NBC broadcast one minute and 34 seconds on a 9-year-old Ohioan who was ‘lunch-shamed’ at his school.”
In September 2019 as well, President Trump made the followingremarksat a Hispanic Heritage Month reception at the White House:
The media, however, were mostly unwilling to believe anything positive that Trump may have said at the White House reception. An opinion piece inThe Hill, for instance,condemned“Trump’s bigotry” and stated: “The president’s antipathy towards Latinos is well-documented…. During this year’s Hispanic Heritage Month, affirming our heritage represents a kind of defiance to a president and an administration that is hostile to Latinos.”
A few days after the Hispanic Heritage Month gathering at which the president spoke, NBC News quoted an information-technology worker in Tennesseesaying: “He [Trump] speaks nothing but hate rhetoric. If the leader of this country is free to speak like that, there’s going to be people who think it’s OK to speak like that. He’s making people live their life in fear.”
At a September 22, 2019 event at Houston’s NRG Stadium, where some 50,000 immigrants from India (and their American-born descendants) gathered for “a community summit” in honor of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Trumptoldthe crowd that he and Mr. Modi “have come to Houston to celebrate everything that unites America and India—our shared dreams and bright futures.” Despite the fact that U.S. citizens of Indian ancestry hadvotedoverwhelmingly against him in 2016, Trump declared: “I’ve also come to express my profound gratitude to the nearly 4 million amazing Indian Americans all across our country. You enrich our culture, you uphold our values, you uplift our communities, and you are truly proud to be American. And we are proud to have you as Americans. We thank you. We love you.”
“This occasion in Houston was a high-water mark in relations between Earth’s two most populous republics,” Deroy Murdockobserves. “Regardless, Trump and Modi’s love-in received zero minutes and zero seconds of coverage on that evening’sNBC Nightly News. However, America’s highest-rated news program for the coveted 25-to-54 demographic devoted two minutes and 35 seconds to correspondent Sam Brock’s report on the 25th anniversary ofThe Shawshank Redemption. Likewise … ABC’sWorld News Tonighttotally spurned Trump’s Indo-extravaganza. However, it focused for one minute and 45 seconds on Katie, a border collie that was lost in Montana and found, alive, 57 days later.”
Conclusion
So you see—as the opening sentence of this article noted—the reflexive hatred that many Americans feel for Donald Trump is entirely understandable. For the media have been relentless in portraying the president as little more than a bombastic, malevolent, coldhearted, racist monster—while simultaneously turning a blind eye to virtually any story that might cast him in a favorable light. Consider, for example, the astonishing degree to which the press has ignored positive economic news in the Trump era:
– – – – –
In light of the media’s astounding dishonesty and malfeasance—so ably laid bare by such invaluable resources as theMedia Research Centerand Mark Levin’sUnfreedom of the Press—it ultimately becomes incumbent upon each individual American to question the conventional “wisdom” that he or she has derived from the press.
This, of course, is not easy. The prospect of questioning one’s firmly held beliefs—which may include a host of firmly held hatreds—can be extremely unsettling. It requires courage to cast away the accumulated myths of a lifetime. Dead belief systems are always difficult to bury, for in doing so we enter a world we do not recognize. As we watch the carefully crafted towers of our understanding crash down in ruins, we lose an integral piece of the only reality we may ever have known. We recoil instinctively from the distress of openly admitting—to ourselves as well as to others—that we may have spent a very long time placing our faith in people or ideas that were wholly unworthy of it. Candace Owens, the leftist-turned-conservative who founded the “Blexit” movement that encourages black Americans to leave the Democratic Party, has eloquentlyarticulatedher own experience as follows:
“A huge component of what you need, to leave the Left, is humility. Do you know how much humility it took for me to say, ‘I was wrong about everything and I know nothing’? You’ve got to be a pretty humble person and have no ego, especially if you’ve gone so far left, that you’re on Facebook and you’re on Twitter de-friending your [conservative] friends, calling them all Nazis, calling them racists. How do you then say, ‘Oh wait, you know what? My bad, I was wrong’? I think that’s what people struggle with, is that sometimes they just stay on the left because they’ve gone so far into the looney-tune direction, that they’re afraid to say, ‘Hey, you know what? I’m sorry. I was wrong and I’m relearning this.’”
If you are one of those people who have hated President Trump specifically for being a “racist,” try, like Candace Owens, to consider the possibility that you’ve been wrong—very, very wrong. And allow yourself to also question—through independence of mind—the veracity of the many additional “certainties” that you likewise have accepted as articles of faith until now. As Mr. Trump himself once asked black voters on his campaign trail when seeking their support: “What the hell have you got to lose?”
NOTES:
[1] Contrary to early reports, itappearsthat the counter-protesters did in fact have a permit as well.[2] See note #1.
*
John Perazzo is the Managing Editor ofDiscoverTheNetworks.org, and the author ofBetrayal: The Democratic Party’s Destruction of America’s Cities.
*
Photo Credit: REUTERS/Jonathan Ernst.
In order to eliminate spam comments that have historically flooded our comments section, comments containing certain keywords will be held in a moderation queue. All comments by legitimate commenters will be manually approved by a member of our team. If your comment is “Awaiting Moderation,” please give us up to 24 hours to manually approve your comment. Please do not re-post the same comment.
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Click To Subscribe To The FPM Newsletter
Name*
Email*
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.


ByDaniel Greenfield•September 23, 2024
More on Freedom Center Investigates —>
ByDaniel Greenfield•August 20, 2024
More on the IRS —>
ByFrontpage Editors•March 20, 2024
More on Disloyal Military —>
ByDaniel Greenfield•June 24, 2024
More on Racist Mayors —>
A Project of theDavid Horowitz Freedom Center
Copyright © 2024 ·  frontpagemag.com

Title: Terrorist organisation: ‘ISIS-Khorasan tried to carry out suicide attack in India in 2018’: What to know about this terror group | India News
Russel Travers, a leading American counter-terrorism official, hasrelayedto US lawmakers that the Islamic State’s Afghanistan network, ISIS – Khorasan (ISIS-K) was behind a failed suicide attack in India in 2018. Travers said that of all the offshoot ISIS cells still existing across the world, ISIS-K, may pose the greatest threat, having already displayed a capacity to carry out high-casualty domestic attacks in Afghanistan.
The clandestine nature of terrorist organisations means that any information one gathers around them, will only be limitedly reliable. According to somereports, ISIS-K’s terror campaign in Afghanistan and some Pakistan provinces began in January 2015, when it first drew the attention of national and regional policymakers. The ceasing of operations of the International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan in December 2014, provided a ripe opportunity for ISIS to consolidate its position in Afghanistan, with ISIS-K ramping up recruitment efforts over the last four years. Exact figures of ISIS-K’s total strength have varied, but counter-terrorism experts agree that the cell could have between4,000and 6,000 members currently operating in Afghanistan. The threat is made more serious by its ability to draw funds from “Islamic State 'Central'", estimated to be between US$50 and US$300 million.
However, ISIS-K has shown that it does not solely rely on external funding. Some reports indicate that the group deals heavily in the black-market trade of lumber, talc and minerals. It has also been known to frequently engage in extortion and kidnapping (for ransom). As such fears of the organisation becoming more than a regional threat spawn from its financial autonomy and recruitment capabilities.RELATED NEWSIslamic State-Khorasan planned suicide attack in India in 2018: Top US counterterrorism officialISIS still dangerous, could attempt retribution attack after Baghdadi's killing: USISI's sinister plan of killing more 'non-residents' in Kashmir exposed
This is not to say that the group has not suffered setbacks since its formation. Several US-led counter-terrorism efforts have taken place to snub the threat of the organisation, and have resulted in the deaths of a number of key leadership personnel, the latest beingAbu Saad Orakazaiin August 2018. The US’ targetting of an ISIS-K camp in August 2017 by using a powerful bomb, was also believed to have been a major setback to the organisation. Several ISIS-K leaders have also been apprehended in Pakistan as well, including the head of the Sindh ISIS-K unit,Ujmar Kathiwer, in January 2016. Despite this, it is clear that the organisation has endured, continuing to pose a grave threat to regional stability.
Following an ISIS-K orchestrated suicide bombing at a wedding reception in Afghanistan that led to the deaths of 63 people, Afghan President Ashraf Ghanivowedto “eliminate” the organisation’s strongholds. However, the ingenious capacity for evasion and resistance that the group has shown, and the territorial gains it has made over the last year, suggest President Ghani’s pledge may be more difficult to follow through on than he expected.The views expressed by the author are personal and do not in any way represent those of Times Network.

Title: 'ISIS-K Attempted Suicide Attack In India In 2018, Failed': US Counter-Terrorism  Official
National
The Khorasan group of the Islamic State is responsible for nearly100 attacks against civilians in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
The Khorasan group of the Islamic State that operates in South Asia attempted a suicide attack in India last year but failed, the top American counter-terrorism official has said.
In fact, the ISIS-Khorasan or the ISIS-K is of utmost concern to the US, said Russel Travers, Acting Director of the National Counterterrorism Center, Office of Director of National Intelligence, said on Tuesday.
"Of all of the branches and networks of ISIS, ISIS-K is certainly one of those of most concern, probably in the neighbourhood of 4,000 individuals or so," Travers said in response to a question from Indian-origin Senator Maggie Hassan.
"They have attempted to certainly inspire attacks outside of Afghanistan. They attempted last year to conduct a suicide attack in India. It failed," Travers said when Hassan asked about the ability of ISIS-K to carry out terrorist attacks in the region.
Travers did not provide further details of the failed suicide attack by the ISIS-K in India.
Islamic State in Khorasan (ISIS-K), which took its name from a historical region that covered much of modern-day Afghanistan and parts of Central Asia, appeared in late 2014 in the eastern province of Nangarhar, where it retains a stronghold. It announced its formation in January 2015 according to Reuters.
The group's leadership has pledged allegiance to Baghdadi but it is not clear that ISIS-K has direct operational links with the main movement.
Senator Hassan travelled to Afghanistan and Pakistan last month, during which she said she heard firsthand the concerns of the US military about the growing, real threat from ISIS-K, the ISIS affiliate in Afghanistan.
"I heard clearly that ISIS-K threatens not only US forces in Afghanistan, but also has designs on striking the US homeland," she said.
Despite America's key victories against the ISIS in Syria and Iraq, the terror outfit remains a deadly threat to the US, Senator Hassan said.
Travers said ISIS-K tried a couple of years ago to inspire an attack in New York but the FBI interrupted. Then there was an attack in Stockholm in 2017 that killed five people, he added.
"So they certainly have a desire and the propaganda would indicate that they want to conduct attacks outside of Afghanistan as far relatively limited," the counter-terrorism official said.
The ISIS-K has been responsible for nearly 100 attacks against civilians in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and about 250 clashes with the US, Afghan and Pakistani security forces since January 2017. Though the ISIS-K has yet to conduct attacks against the US homeland, the terror group represents an enduring threat to the American and allied interests in South and Central Asia, according to theCenter for Strategic and International Studiesthink-tank.
(With inputs from PTI)
The Cheesy Tale Of Pizza: From Ancient Flatbread To Global Sensation! | Nazar Ya! Ki Khau Gali
Air Jordans: The Sneaker That Sparked A Revolution | F Se Fashion By Nazar Ya!
Criminal Amnesia | Sexual Violence in Manipur
The Untold Journey Of Momo: From The Himalayas To India's Streets | Nazar Ya! Ki Khau Gali
J&K Gears Up For 2nd Phase of Voting
Day In Pics: September 24 2024
Japan Floods: Heavy Rains, Damaged Houses & Submerged Cars
Fear Of War Increases As Israel, Lebanon Continue Their Strikes
Copyright © 2024 Outlook Publishing India Pvt Ltd.
Copyright © 2024 Outlook Publishing India Pvt Ltd. All pages of the Website are subject to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You must not reproduce, duplicate, copy, sell, resell or exploit any material on the Website for any commercial purposes.

Title: MSN


Title: ISIS-K attempted suicide attack in India last year: Top US official, ISIS

ENGLISH
MALAYALAM
NEWSPAPER
E-Paper
Washington: The Khorasan group of the Islamic State terror group that operates in South Asia attempted a suicide attack in India last year but failed, the top American counter-terrorism official has told lawmakers.
In fact, of all the branches of the ISIS, the ISIS-Khorasan or the ISIS-K is the outfit that is of the most concern to the US, Russel Travers, Acting Director of the National Counterterrorism Center, Office of Director of National Intelligence, said on Tuesday.
"Of all of the branches and networks of ISIS, ISIS-K is certainly one of those of most concern, probably in the neighbourhood of 4,000 individuals or so," Travers said in response to a question from Indian-origin Senator Maggie Hassan.
"They have attempted to certainly inspire attacks outside of Afghanistan. They attempted last year to conduct a suicide attack in India. It failed," Travers said when Hassan asked about the ability of ISIS-K to carry out terrorist attacks in the region.
Travers did not provide further details of the failed suicide attack by the ISIS-K in India.
Hassan travelled to Afghanistan and Pakistan last month, during which she said she heard firsthand the concerns of the US military about the growing and very real threat of ISIS-K, the ISIS affiliate in Afghanistan.
"I heard clearly that ISIS-K threatens not only US forces in Afghanistan, but also has designs on striking the US homeland," she said.
Last week, Travers had said that there were more than 20 ISIS branches globally, some of which are using sophisticated technology such as drones to conduct operations.
Despite America's key victories against the ISIS in Syria and Iraq, the terror outfit remains a deadly threat to the United States, Senator Hassan said.
Travers said ISIS-K tried a couple of years ago to inspire an attack in New York but the FBI interrupted. Then there was an attack in Stockholm in 2017 that killed five people, he added.
"So they certainly have a desire and the propaganda would indicate that they want to conduct attacks outside of Afghanistan as far relatively limited," the counter-terrorism official said.
According to Travers, after 9/11, the US was primarily focused on an externally directed attack capability emanating from a single piece of real estate along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.
"Eighteen years later, we face a homegrown violent extremist threat, almost 20 ISIS branches and networks that range from tens to hundreds to thousands of people, al-Qaeda and its branches and affiliates, foreign fighters that flocked to Iraq and Syria from well over 100 countries, Iran and its proxies, and there is a growing terrorist threat from racially and ethnically motivated extremists around the globe," he said.
By any calculation, there are far more radicalised individuals now than there were at the time of 9/11, Travers told the lawmakers.
This highlights the importance of terrorism prevention. While some aspects of the threat can only be dealt with through kinetic operations, the residents of the ideology will not be dealt with by military or law enforcement operations alone.
"The world has a lot of work to do in the non-kinetic realm to deal with radicalisation and underlying causes," he added.
Travers also said that al-Qaeda retains its long-standing ties to the dreaded Haqqani Network and other militant networks active in Afghanistan and Pakistan that frequently target US personnel.
The ISIS-K has been responsible for nearly 100 attacks against civilians in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and about 250 clashes with the US, Afghan and Pakistani security forces since January 2017.
Though the ISIS-K has yet to conduct attacks against the US homeland, the terror group represents an enduring threat to the American and allied interests in South and Central Asia, according to the Center for Strategic and International Studies think-tank.
PTI
2 min
News
World
Aug 31, 2024
2 min
News
Crime
Aug 7, 2024
1 min
News
India
Mar 24, 2024
2 min
News
India
Mar 21, 2024

2 min
News
World
Sep 24, 2024
1 min
News
World
Sep 24, 2024
4 min
News
World
Sep 24, 2024
2 min
2 min
1 min
5 min
News
Kerala
1 min
News
India
2 min
News
Crime
2 min
MALAYALAM
NEWSPAPER
+
-
+
-
+
-
+
-
+
-
+
-
+
-
+
-
Click on ‘Get News Alerts’ to get the latest news alerts from

Title: 
	ISIS-Khorasan attempted suicide attack in India in 2018: US counter-terrorism official  - The Hindu BusinessLine

-14.57
+ 1.35
+ 122.00
+ 221.00
+ 396.00
-14.57
+ 1.35
+ 1.35
+ 122.00
+ 122.00
+ 221.00
Get businessline apps on
Connect with us
TO ENJOY ADDITIONAL BENEFITS
Connect With Us
Get BusinessLine apps on
ByPTI
Comments
READ LATER

A top United States (US) counter-terrorism official has told lawmakers that the Khorasan group of the Islamic State (ISIS) terror group, that operates in South Asia, attempted a suicide attack in India last year but failed.
In fact, of all the branches of the ISIS, the ISIS-Khorasan or the ISIS-K is the outfit that is of the most concern to the US, Russel Travers, Acting Director of the National Counterterrorism Center, Office of Director of National Intelligence, said on Tuesday.
“Of all of the branches and networks of ISIS, ISIS-K is certainly one of those of most concern, probably in the neighbourhood of 4,000 individuals or so,” Travers said in response to a question from Indian-origin Senator Maggie Hassan.
“They have attempted to certainly inspire attacks outside of Afghanistan. They attempted last year to conduct a suicide attack in India. It failed,” Travers said when Hassan asked about the ability of ISIS-K to carry out terrorist attacks in the region.
Hassan travelled to Afghanistan and Pakistan last month, during which she said she heard first-hand the concerns of the US military about the growing and very real threat of ISIS-K, the ISIS affiliate in Afghanistan.
“I heard clearly that ISIS-K threatens not only US forces in Afghanistan, but also has designs on striking the US homeland,” she said.
Last week, Travers had said that there were more than 20 ISIS branches globally, some of which are using sophisticated technology such as drones to conduct operations.
Despite America’s key victories against the ISIS in Syria and Iraq, the terror outfit remains a deadly threat to the United States, Senator Hassan said.
Travers said ISIS-K tried a couple of years ago to inspire an attack in New York but the FBI interrupted. Then there was an attack in Stockholm in 2017 that killed five people, he added.
“So they certainly have a desire and the propaganda would indicate that they want to conduct attacks outside of Afghanistan as far relatively limited,” the counter-terrorism official said.
According to Travers, after 9/11, the US was primarily focused on an externally directed attack capability emanating from a single piece of real estate along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.
“Eighteen years later, we face a homegrown violent extremist threat, almost 20 ISIS branches and networks that range from tens to hundreds to thousands of people, al-Qaeda and its branches and affiliates, foreign fighters that flocked to Iraq and Syria from well over 100 countries, Iran and its proxies, and there is a growing terrorist threat from racially and ethnically motivated extremists around the globe,” he said.
By any calculation, there are far more radicalised individuals now than there were at the time of 9/11, Travers told the lawmakers.
This highlights the importance of terrorism prevention. While some aspects of the threat can only be dealt with through kinetic operations, the residents of the ideology will not be dealt with by military or law enforcement operations alone.
“The world has a lot of work to do in the non-kinetic realm to deal with radicalisation and underlying causes,” he added.
Travers also said that al-Qaeda retains its long-standing ties to the dreaded Haqqani Network and other militant networks active in Afghanistan and Pakistan that frequently target US personnel.
The ISIS-K has been responsible for nearly 100 attacks against civilians in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and about 250 clashes with the US, Afghan and Pakistani security forces since January 2017.
Though the ISIS-K has yet to conduct attacks against the US homeland, the terror group represents an enduring threat to the American and allied interests in South and Central Asia, according to the Center for Strategic and International Studies think-tank.
Comments
BACK TO TOP
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by ourcommunity guidelinesfor posting your comments.
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of TheHindu Businessline and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.
Terms & conditions|Institutional Subscriber

Title: Yahoo Search - Web Search
As of August 26th, 2021 Yahoo India will no longer be publishing content. Your Yahoo Account, Mail and Search experiences will not be affected in any way and will operate as usual. We thank you for your support and readership.

Title: Islamic State group attempted suicide attack in India last year: US official | India News - The Indian Express
The Khorasan group of the ISIS or the ISIS-K, which operates in south Asia, last year attempted a suicide attack in India, a top American official has told lawmakers.
In fact, of all the branches of the ISIS, ISIS-K is the outfit that is of the most concern to the US, Russel Travers, Acting Director of the National Counterterrorism Center, Office of Director of National Intelligence, said on Tuesday.
“Of all of the branches and networks of ISIS, ISIS-K is certainly one of those of most concern, probably in the neighbourhood of 4,000 individuals or so,” Travers said in response to a question from Indian-origin Senator Maggie Hassan.
“They have attempted to certainly inspire attacks outside of Afghanistan. They attempted last year to conduct a suicide attack in India. It failed,” Travers said when Hassan asked about the ability of ISIS-K to carry out terrorist attacks in the region.
Hassan had travelled to Afghanistan and Pakistan last month, during which she said she heard firsthand the concerns of the US military about the growing and very real threat of ISIS-K, the ISIS affiliate in Afghanistan.
“I heard clearly that ISIS-K threatens not only US forces in Afghanistan, but also has designs on striking the US homeland,” she said.
Last week, Travers had said that there were more than 20 ISIS branches globally, some of which are using sophisticated technology such as drones to conduct operations.
Despite America’s key victories against the ISIS in Syria and Iraq, the terror outfit remains a deadly threat to the United States, Senator Hassan said.
Travers said ISIS-K tried a couple of years ago to inspire an attack in New York but the FBI interrupted. Then there was an attack in Stockholm in 2017 that killed five people, he added.
“So they certainly have a desire and the propaganda would indicate that they want to conduct attacks outside of Afghanistan as far relatively limited,” the counter-terrorism official said.
According to Travers, after 9/11, the US was primarily focused on an externally directed attack capability emanating from a single piece of real estate along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.
“Eighteen years later, we face a homegrown violent extremist threat, almost 20 ISIS branches and networks that range from tens to hundreds to thousands of people, al-Qaeda and its branches and affiliates, foreign fighters that flocked to Iraq and Syria from well over 100 countries, Iran and its proxies, and there is a growing terrorist threat from racially and ethnically motivated extremists around the globe,” he said.
By any calculation, there are far more radicalised individuals now than there were at the time of 9/11, Travers told the lawmakers.
“This highlights the importance of terrorism prevention. While some aspects of the threat can only be dealt with through kinetic operations, the residents of the ideology will not be dealt with by military or law enforcement operations alone. The world has a lot of work to do in the non-kinetic realm to deal with radicalization and underlying causes,” he added.
Travers also said that al-Qaeda retains its long-standing ties to the Haqqani Network and other militant networks active in Afghanistan and Pakistan that frequently target US personnel.
Click here to join The Indian Express on WhatsApp and get latest news and updates
Sanjeev Kumar, a talented actor, had a passion for food and even rented a house to satisfy his love for non-vegetarian dishes. Fellow actors Shammi Kapoor, Shatrughan Sinha, and Randhir Kapoor would often join him for late-night feasts. Sachin Pilgaonkar revealed this in a recent interview, highlighting Sanjeev's love for food and his bond with his colleagues.



Title: Afghanistan: ICRC facilitates release of 10 Afghan National Security Forces detainees | International Committee of the Red Cross
Stay updated with the latest news and ongoing initiatives of the ICRC.
Neutral, impartial, and independent. Discover our values and mission.
The ICRC responds quickly and efficiently to help people affected by armed conflict.
We have offices in over 90 countries around the world, providing assistance and protection to people affected by conflict.
Gain insights into the ICRC's role in developing and promoting international humanitarian law and policy.
We invite organizations, institutions and philanthropists to join us in our mission to alleviate the suffering of those affected by armed conflict.
Find out how you as an individual can contribute to our humanitarian efforts to help people suffering because of armed conflict.
"The ten ANSF members were released and handed over to the ICRC in Helmand Province, in the District of Nahr-e Saraj," said Juan Pedro Schaerer, the ICRC's head of delegation in Afghanistan. "We transferred them across the frontline to Lashkar Gah where we handed them over to the Afghan authorities at the governor's office," he added.
As a neutral, impartial, and independent humanitarian organization, the ICRC facilitated the transfer of the released detainees upon the request of the parties to the conflict. "The role of the ICRC was strictly limited to facilitating the physical transfer of released prisoners; the ICRC was not involved in any negotiations that preceded the release and was involved upon the explicit request of both parties to the conflict," said Schaerer.
The ICRC has been working in Afghanistan since 1979. Its humanitarian interventions include: supporting the provision of health services including limb-fitting and physical rehabilitation for persons with disabilities; visiting detainees to monitor their conditions of detention and treatment, and to facilitate contact with their families; improving access to clean water; and promoting international humanitarian law for the protection of the civilian population and people not taking part in the conflict.
Topic-dedicated ICRC websites
Explore our blogs, apps, reviews and other resources dedicated to humanitarian impact, insight, law and policy.
Direct access
Newsletter
Terms and conditions- ICRC ©2024 - All right reserved

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:52Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Afghan airline to launch regular flights to Uzbekistan
22/11/19 13:32News of Central Asia0
Uzbekistan and Afghanistan’s aviation authorities have agreed to open flights from Mazar-e-Sharif to Tashkent,Trendreports citing the press service of Uzbekistan’s Ministry of Transport.
The agreement was reached during negotiations which took place in the Afghan city of Mazar-e-Sharif.
Regular flights will be operated by Afghanistan's Kam Air. The organizational and technical procedures associated with this are expected to be implemented in December.
In December 2017, Kam Air launched flights from Kabul to Tashkent. They are operated twice a week.
Kam Air is an Afghan airline headquartered in the capital Kabul. The company received its Air’s Operator Certificate (AOC No. 001) in August 2003 and was the first to be issued by Afghanistan’s Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation. Kam Air was subsequently allocated International Civil Aviation Organisation Code KMF, International Air Transport Association Code RQ and Financial Code 384.
The airline offers direct international services from Kabul and Herat. It also connects Kabul to 11 domestic destinations.
This network further benefits from a code share agreement with Air Arabia and Kam Air has interline arrangements with APG Airlines, Hahn Air and Saudi Arabian Airlines. All of its services are available through global distribution systems such as Apollo, Galileo, Sabre, Sirena, and Worldspan.
Kam Air is privileged to serve a wide range of corporate clients, including international NGOs such as Danish Refugee Council, Norwegian Refugee Council, Save the Children, and the Swedish Committee.
As well as its scheduled commercial services, Kam Air also provides cargo and passenger charter flights to the Afghan Presidency, ANSF, the German Embassy, Tetra-Tech GSSP, the US Army and the US Embassy, as well as to private companies and NGOs in both Afghanistan, and internationally.
The Kam Air fleet of 13 aircraft comprises: three Airbus A340s; two ATR72s; four Boeing B737s; one Boeing B767; and three McDonnell Douglas MD80s.
03/10 14:04
19/01 12:20
25/06 13:00
21/06 15:01
02/09 11:5420740
04/09 15:4014300
11/09 10:0413910
08/09 11:3413420
10/09 11:5112650
11/09 17:4412570
29/08 09:5412110
13/09 11:2812040
11/09 11:4611780
11/09 09:4311570
28/08 09:45
27/08 14:52
28/08 16:08
06/09 17:12
29/08 09:23
09/09 09:39
29/08 12:05
12/09 14:01
02/09 09:18
12/09 16:51
24/09 16:39
24/09 15:08
24/09 12:33
24/09 10:41
24/09 09:16

Opinions expressed at press conferences organized by Kabar News Agency, does not reflect the official opinion of Kabar Agency. When using our materials, reference to Kabar News Agency is required.
2022 All rights reserved. © The content of Kabar News Agency’s website.

Title: Afghanistan: Weekly Humanitarian Update (4 – 10 November 2019) - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan+ 2 more
KEY FIGURES
IDPS IN 2019 (AS OF 12 NOV)372,000 People displaced by conflict328,000 Received assistance
NATURAL DISASTER IN 2019 (AS OF 13 OCT)295,700 Number of people affected by natural disasters
RETURNEES IN 2019 (AS OF 02 NOV)398,400 Returnees from Iran23,400 Returnees from Pakistan23,000 Returnees from other countries
HRP REQUIREMENTS & FUNDING612M Requested (US$)423M 69% funded (US$)
AFGHANISTAN HUMANITARIAN FUND (AHF)90M Contributions including carry-over (US$)62.4M Expenditure (US$)27.6M Available for allocation (US$)
South: Conflict continued in Zabul, Hilmand and Uruzgan provinces
Conflict continued between a non-state armed group (NSAG) and the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) in surrounding villages of Nahr-e-Saraj in Hilmand, in Shah Joi district in Zabul and in Tirinkot and Khas Uruzgan in Uruzgan province.
On 9 November, a vehicle-borne improvised explosive device (VBIED) detonation killed one person and injured more than 10 people in Shah Wali Kot district, Kandahar province. Civilian casualties were also reported in the Kotwal area of Tirinkot, Uruzgan province due to ANSF military operations and NSAG attacks. According to local authorities in Kandahar, 290 families (approximately 2,030 people) were newly displaced from Farah to Kandahar city and surrounding villages due to conflict.
A humanitarian partner began the verification process for families who will be provided with cash for shelter construction in Dand district, Kandahar province (approximately 700 people who are IDPs, returnees or part of host communities). Interagency assessments are planned in the coming days to assess internally displaced persons (IDPs) displaced by conflict in Tirinkot,Uruzgan province and in Zaranj, Nimroz province.
East: 1,050 people displaced by clashes in Kunar Clashes continued in Pachieragam, Khogyani and Dehbala districts in Nangarhar province, and in Chawkay and Dara-e-Pech districts in Kunar province. Clashes among NSAGs in Chawkay district in Kunar province resulted in the displacement of 1,050 people. Since 6 November, approximately 3,049 people have been deprived of access to health services due to the closure of the Chalas Sub-Health Center in Chawkay district, Kunar province.
However, on 3 November, the Malil Mushfa health facility reopened in Nurgaram district in Nuristan province, which had been closed since 7 October, returning health services to approximately 2,478 people.
Interagency assessment teams identified 812 IDPs in Nari district in Kunar province as being in need who will receive humanitarian assistance in the coming days. In the east, 4,081 IDPs and returnees were reached with cash, food rations, water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH), health services and relief items such as items for winter. 6,041 returnees, IDPs and people from host communities were reached with emergency outpatient health services.This week, a total of 11,701 children were vaccinated for polio and measles.
Northeast: 12,446 people received humanitarian assistance Fighting between NSAG and ANSF are continued in Dahana-e-Ghori district of Baghlan, Warduj district of Badakhshan and Darqad district of Takhar province. Reports from local authorities indicate that 1,000 families (approximately 7,000 people) were displaced to Pul-e-Khumri city and surrounding villages due to recent hostilities in Baghlan province.
Across the region, 12,446 people received humanitarian assistance in Takhar, Baghlan, Badakhshan, and Kunduz provinces. In addition, 1,967 newly identified IDPs are yet to be assisted. The number of people eligible for humanitarian assistance is expected to rise, as assessments continue.
North: 19 health facilities reopened Fighting between ANSF and a NSAG and airstrikes continued to affect civilians in Faryab, Balkh, Jawzjan, Sar-ePul, and Samangan provinces. Reports indicated that civilians were displaced in Andkhoy and Pashtun Kot districts in Faryab province. Needs assessments of the newly displaced in Andkhoy district and Maymana city continued.
Last week,19 health facilities reopened in Dara-e-Suf-e-Payin and other areas in Samangan province. The health facilities had been closed since early October, thus health services to some 200,000 people in contested parts of Samangan province were restored.
Inter-agency teams verified 6,965 IDPs in Faryab, Jawzjan, Sar-e-Pul and Balkh provinces as being in need of assistance. During the reporting period, 1,673 IDPs displaced by conflict received humanitarian assistance in Faryab, Samangan, Sar-e-Pul and Jawzjan provinces. Also, on 4 November, 350 flood affected people received humanitarian assistance in Aybak city, Samangan province.
West: More than 200 IDPs will receive humanitarian assistance Following the completion of a needs assessment, 239 IDPs in Hirat and Badghis who were newly displaced by conflict will receive cash for food, relief items, winter kits and WASH aid. Two flood affected families were assisted with food and relief items in Jalil Abad village in Injil district, Hirat province.
Centre: 2,933 IDPs identified as being in need of humanitarian assistance Last week, joint assessment teams verified 2,933 people as being in need of humanitarian assistance after being affected by conflict in Kabul, Khost, Kapisa, Parwan, Ghazni and Logar provinces. Needs assessments on winter assistance in Bamyan and Daykundi provinces were completed; humanitarian partners plan to provide assistance to the identified IDPs in Kabul, Parwan and Kapisa provinces in the coming days.
Civilians killed and injured by pressure-plate IEDs
Between 2 and 4 November, three separate incidents of pressure-plate Improvised Explosive Devices(IED) killing and injuring civilians took place in Paktika, Takhar and Baghlan provinces. The incident in Paktika resulted in the deaths of seven people and the injury of one person. In Takhar province, five children were killed and four other children were injured by a roadside pressure-plate IED as they were on their way to school. The incident in Baghlan claimed the lives of eight people and injured five others, the majority of whom were women and children.
Afghanistan+ 4 more
Afghanistan+ 4 more
Afghanistan+ 3 more
Afghanistan+ 3 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Afghanistan | ReliefWeb Response
Afghanistan
Highlights

Humanitarian partners are ramping up response efforts following heavy windstorms, severe rainfall and flash floods that struck multiple districts of Badakhshan, Baghlan, Kunar, Laghman, Nangarhar and Nuristan provinces in eastern and northeastern Afghanistan on 15 and…
Afghanistan is facing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis with a very real risk of systemic collapse and human catastrophe.
PEOPLE IN NEED:29.2M |PLANNED REACH:17.3MINTER-SECTOR REACH:1.9M |OVERALL REACHED:12.1MREQUIREMENTS (US$):$3.06B |RECEIVED (US$):735.2M
This multi-sectoral Response Plan requires approximately $93.6 million to support 114,000 earthquake-affected people in Herat.
Individuals fled their homes dueto conflict. Displacement affects all people differently.
Afghanistan is prone to earthquakes, flooding, drought, landslides and avalanches.
Humanitarian Operational Presence and Operational Capacity.
Concise operational document to support the coordination of humanitarian response in Afghanistan.
Visual of key issues and trends related to the Afghanistan humanitarian response.
Afghanistan
Background
In an increasingly complex operating environment, stronger coordination around humanitarian needs assessments is critical to enable effective assessment of multi-dimensional needs; optimise available resources (including use of trained enumerators); reduce the burden on key informants; and…
Afghanistan
Afghanistan is facing the devastating effects of almost forty years of war, increasing poverty and natural disasters, all of which were amplified by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. At the beginning of 2021, almost 17…
Afghanistan
Overview
Due to security concerns and socio-cultural barriers, some female personnel may face challenges when travelling for work or participating in other professional activities. These persistent barriers to full participation in the workforce have resulted in diminished…
Afghanistan
UN announces Transitional Engagement Framework (TEF) for Afghanistan to save lives, sustain services and preserve community systems
Kabul, Geneva, New York, 26 January 2022 – The UN team in Afghanistan has launched its One-UN Transitional Engagement Framework…

Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services



Title: Afghanistan: Weekly Humanitarian Update (11 – 17 November 2019) - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan+ 2 more
KEY FIGURES
IDPS IN 2019 (AS OF 17 NOV)
380,300 People displaced by conflict346,100 Received assistance
NATURAL DISASTER IN 2019 (AS OF 13 OCT)
295,700 Number of people affected by natural disasters
RETURNEES IN 2019 (AS OF 02 NOV)
410,100 Returnees from Iran23,700 Returnees from Pakistan24,400 Returnees from other countries
HRP REQUIREMENTS & FUNDING
612M Requested (US$)423M 69% funded (US$)
AFGHANISTAN HUMANITARIAN FUND (AHF)
90.54M Contributions including carry-over (US$)62.60M Expenditure (US$)27.94M Available for allocation (US$)
South: Conflict continued in Zabul province
Conflict continued between a non-state armed group (NSAG) and the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) in Qalat and Shah Joi districts in Zabul province. Last week, a woman and her child were wounded when a rocket landed in their house in Shinkay district, Zabul province. Five civilian were also reportedly killed in Hilmand province and in Tirinkot, Uruzgan province due to NSAG attacks. On 14 November, according to local authorities in Zabul, 250 families (approximately 1,750 people) were displaced within Arghandab district due to conflict. Humanitarian partners are working to access the area to assess the needs of internally displaced persons (IDPs).
Lack of mobile phone networks and risk of improvised explosive devices (IEDs) in contested areas, particularly in Shah Joi and Arghandab districts in Zabul province, severely hampers information gathering and needs assessment of IDPs in the area. On 14 November, interagency assessment teams verified 346 people who were displaced by conflict in Tirinkot, Uruzgan province. They were provided with humanitarian assistance on 19 November. Humanitarian partners will assess the needs of 840 people who were displaced by conflict in Zabul in the coming days.
East: Thousands displaced by conflict
A military operation that began on 27 October in Achin and Sherzad districts in Nangarhar province has resulted in the temporary closure of two health facilities. As of 13 November, at least 35,161 people have been deprived of access to health services due to the closure of a total of five health facilities in eastern part of the country. On 17 November, around 572 people were displaced from Achin District to Jalalabad City in Nangarhar province. The displaced are mainly women and children. The UN is working closely with humanitarian partners and local authorities in Nangahar to assess and determine their needs. Some humanitarian assistance such as food, blankets, winter clothing and hygiene kits has already been distributed.
Interagency assessment teams identified 4,718 recently displaced IDPs across the region as being in need who will receive humanitarian assistance in the coming days. 8,960 IDPs and returnees were reached with cash, food rations, water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH), health services and relief items such as items for winter.
As part of health response preparedness, medical supplies have been pre-positioned in Laghman health facilities (including Mehtarlam Provincial Hospital) to strengthen mass casualty management and health emergency response capacity. A case of Crimean Congo Hemorrhagic Fever (CCHF) was reported in Jalalabad City.
Northeast: 21,826 people received humanitarian assistance
Fighting between NSAG and ANSF continued in Dand-e-Shahabuddin, Baghlan-e-Jadid districts in Baghlan province. 200 families (approximately 1,400 people) were displaced to Pul-e-Khumri city and surrounding villages in Baghlan province.
Across the region, 21,826 people received humanitarian assistance in Takhar, Badakhshan, and Kunduz provinces. On 13 November, 34 families (approximately 238 people) who were affected by a flash flood received humanitarian aid in Khwaja Bahawuddin and Yangi Qala districts in Takhar province. In addition, 455 new IDPs who were affected by conflict were assessed and will receive assistance in the coming days.
North: Almost 60,000 people receive food aid for winter
Fighting between ANSF and a NSAG continued to affect civilians in Faryab, Balkh and Jawzjan provinces. Reports indicated that civilians were displaced in Andkhoy and Pashtun Kot districts in Faryab province. Needs assessments of the newly displaced in Andkhoy district and Maymana city are ongoing.
Inter-agency teams verified 1,638 IDPs in Jawzjan, Faryab, Sar-e-Pul and Balkh provinces as being in need of assistance. During the reporting period, 693 IDPs displaced by conflict received humanitarian assistance in Balkh province. Also, 58,325 people received food as a part of winterization assistance in the northern part of the country.
West: More than 16,000 IDPs in need of humanitarian aid
Following the completion of a joint needs assessment, 1,189 IDPs in Farah and Badghis who were newly displaced by conflict will receive cash for food, relief items, winter kits and WASH items. However, humanitarian partners could not reach the remaining 14,966 IDPs who were identified as in need of humanitarian assistance between March and April due to insecurity and access constraints in Bala Murghab district, Badghis province. Humanitarian partners are working to resolved the issues and will deliver aid to people in need as soon as access allows.
Centre: 651 people received humanitarian assistance
Last week, joint assessment teams verified 1,043 people as being in need of humanitarian assistance due to conflict in Ghazni and Logar provinces. On 12 November, 651 people received humanitarian assistance in Matun district, Khost province.
On 13 November, a car bomb detonated in the Qasaba area in Kabul city killed 12 people, including children, and injured 17 others. The incident followed a period of relative calm in Kabul in October.
Funding Updates
The Afghanistan Humanitarian Fund has disbursed US $24.5 million through 16 grants focusing on winterisation and the winter planting season out of the $32 million from the third reserve allocation. The remaining funds will be disbursed in the coming days.
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Afghan airline to launch regular flights to Uzbekistan - Trend.Az
BAKU, Azerbaijan, Nov. 22
By Fakhri Vakilov-Trend:
Uzbekistan and Afghanistan’s aviation authorities have agreed to open flights from Mazar-e-Sharif to Tashkent,Trendreports citing the press service of Uzbekistan’s Ministry of Transport.
The agreement was reached during negotiations which took place in the Afghan city of Mazar-e-Sharif.
Regular flights will be operated by Afghanistan's Kam Air. The organizational and technical procedures associated with this are expected to be implemented in December.
In December 2017, Kam Air launched flights from Kabul to Tashkent. They are operated twice a week.
Kam Air is an Afghan airline headquartered in the capital Kabul. The company received its Air’s Operator Certificate (AOC No. 001) in August 2003 and was the first to be issued by Afghanistan’s Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation. Kam Air was subsequently allocated International Civil Aviation Organisation Code KMF, International Air Transport Association Code RQ and Financial Code 384.
The airline offers direct international services from Kabul and Herat. It also connects Kabul to 11 domestic destinations.

This network further benefits from a code share agreement with Air Arabia and Kam Air has interline arrangements with APG Airlines, Hahn Air and Saudi Arabian Airlines. All of its services are available through global distribution systems such as Apollo, Galileo, Sabre, Sirena, and Worldspan.
Kam Air is privileged to serve a wide range of corporate clients, including international NGOs such as Danish Refugee Council, Norwegian Refugee Council, Save the Children, and the Swedish Committee.
As well as its scheduled commercial services, Kam Air also provides cargo and passenger charter flights to the Afghan Presidency, ANSF, the German Embassy, Tetra-Tech GSSP, the US Army and the US Embassy, as well as to private companies and NGOs in both Afghanistan, and internationally.
The Kam Air fleet of 13 aircraft comprises: three Airbus A340s; two ATR72s; four Boeing B737s; one Boeing B767; and three McDonnell Douglas MD80s.
---
Follow author on Twitter:@vakilovfaxri

Title: Afghanistan | ReliefWeb Response
Afghanistan
Highlights

Humanitarian partners are ramping up response efforts following heavy windstorms, severe rainfall and flash floods that struck multiple districts of Badakhshan, Baghlan, Kunar, Laghman, Nangarhar and Nuristan provinces in eastern and northeastern Afghanistan on 15 and…
Afghanistan is facing an unprecedented humanitarian crisis with a very real risk of systemic collapse and human catastrophe.
PEOPLE IN NEED:29.2M |PLANNED REACH:17.3MINTER-SECTOR REACH:1.9M |OVERALL REACHED:12.1MREQUIREMENTS (US$):$3.06B |RECEIVED (US$):735.2M
This multi-sectoral Response Plan requires approximately $93.6 million to support 114,000 earthquake-affected people in Herat.
Individuals fled their homes dueto conflict. Displacement affects all people differently.
Afghanistan is prone to earthquakes, flooding, drought, landslides and avalanches.
Humanitarian Operational Presence and Operational Capacity.
Concise operational document to support the coordination of humanitarian response in Afghanistan.
Visual of key issues and trends related to the Afghanistan humanitarian response.
Afghanistan
Background
In an increasingly complex operating environment, stronger coordination around humanitarian needs assessments is critical to enable effective assessment of multi-dimensional needs; optimise available resources (including use of trained enumerators); reduce the burden on key informants; and…
Afghanistan
Afghanistan is facing the devastating effects of almost forty years of war, increasing poverty and natural disasters, all of which were amplified by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. At the beginning of 2021, almost 17…
Afghanistan
Overview
Due to security concerns and socio-cultural barriers, some female personnel may face challenges when travelling for work or participating in other professional activities. These persistent barriers to full participation in the workforce have resulted in diminished…
Afghanistan
UN announces Transitional Engagement Framework (TEF) for Afghanistan to save lives, sustain services and preserve community systems
Kabul, Geneva, New York, 26 January 2022 – The UN team in Afghanistan has launched its One-UN Transitional Engagement Framework…

Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services



Title: Was Blackwater behind the collapse of Afghan peace talks? | Daily Sabah

Pakistan's diplomatic push to bring the Afghan peace process back on track has paved the way for the resumption of peace talks between the U.S and Afghan Taliban. The question, however, arises here: why were the peace talks canceled if they were to be restarted?
The meeting in Islamabad on Oct. 4 between the U.S. negotiators, led by special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad, and the Taliban delegation led by Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, is an important milestone to resume the peace negotiations, which were abruptly called off by U.S. President Donald Trump, apparently after the insurgent group accepted responsibility for attack earlier last month that killed 12 people including one American soldier.

Was this attack the only reason behind the abrupt cancellation last month of an “almost done peace deal” between the U.S. and the Taliban? It is an undeniable fact that peace talks kept on track for the last one year despite the Taliban continued to launch attacks on the Afghan and U.S. soldiers. The other side of the story of calling off the Afghan peace process points to Donald Trump's covert plan with Blackwater.
Was Blackwater indeed a part of the U.S. in the post peace deal? Why was Trump even ready to sign a deal, which the critics called a surrender deal, with the Taliban last month? And now as Trump is set to actually withdraw the U.S. troops, he wants a ceasefire from Taliban and inclusion of the Afghan government in peace talks.

The Taliban's stand on the cancellation of peace talks reveals Trump's covert plan – going side by side with peace talks – to replace American troops with Blackwater contractors after signing the peace agreement with the insurgent group. It was the reason that the Taliban, during nine rounds of talks, were stuck to the point of a complete withdrawal of foreign forces from the war-battered country. As Trump's underhand plan, prior to the signing of a peace deal, had been exposed to the Taliban, Trump had no option but to abruptly cancel the peace talks.
About six months ago (while the U.S.-Taliban peace talks were underway), an article published in Taliban's Urdu-language monthly, Shariah magazine titled, "Blackwater ki Afghanistan mein mutwaqqa aamad" ("The expected arrival of Blackwater in Afghanistan"), revealed the Blackwater plan to take on war in Afghanistan.
The Taliban had identified 2,000 specially trained personnel who were working undercover in Afghanistan. Taliban's sources alleged that the U.S. called off peace talks after the last month's Taliban attack in Kundus and the Camp Integrity in the Green Village near Kabul. At least 30 Blackwater mercenaries were killed, including Shafiqullah, the person in charge of the camp.
Camp Integrity, located near Kabul International Airport, has been home to Blackwater's Afghanistan operations since 2009. The Sept. 2 attack by the Taliban targeted the Green Village compound, which houses several international organizations and guesthouses.

The attack killed at least 16 people and wounded 100 more, as reported by The Associated Press. It was the attack, Taliban sources claimed, on the Blackwater base that forced Trump to abruptly cancel the peace talks, as the attack on the camp had exposed the real plan of the U.S.
After signing the peace deal with the Taliban, the Trump administration wanted to hand over the control of Afghanistan into the hands of the merchants of death – Blackwater. The U.S. would draw down its troops and replace them with 3,000 to 5,000 mercenaries.
Reports from Islamabad suggest that the U.S. wants a fresh start of peace talks with the Taliban putting forward their two demands – a complete cease-fire and the inclusion of the Afghan government in the peace process.However, the Taliban are insisting to resume the process right from where it stopped. One thing is clear, the cease-fire from the Taliban would give a face-saving measure to Donald Trump to announce the resumption of peace talks with the Taliban.
At war again?
Whatever claims have been made by the Taliban, true or false, one thing cannot be denied: Blackwater is deeply interested in taking on the Afghan war. For the last couple of years, Eric Prince, the founder of the Blackwater military firm, now known as Academia, launched a full-fledged campaign through print and electronic media with an aim to publicly convince President Trump on privatizing the Afghan war.
In an op-ed article published in the New York Times in 2017, Prince publicly sold his plan for privatizing the Afghan war. "My proposal is for a sustainable footprint of 2,000 American Special Operations and support personnel, as well as a contractor force of less than 6,000 [far less than the 26,000 in the country now]. This team would provide a support structure for the Afghans, allowing the U.S.’ conventional forces to return home," he wrote.
"If the president pursues this third path, I, too, would vigorously compete to implement a plan that saves American lives, costs less than 20% of current spending and saves American taxpayers more than $40 billion a year," he added.
In an interview with Recoil magazine this year, Prince said, "I had hundreds of instructors attached to Afghan units for a long time – we built the entire Afghan border police."
"Right now, the U.S. taxpayer is spending more than the entire U.K. defense budget, just in Afghanistan – $62 billion. That’s $5 billion to support the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF), and $57 billion for the U.S. just to be there; we can draw that number way down. We have 15,000 U.S. troops and 30,000 contractors in the country right now– you draw that number down to 2,000 active duty and maybe leave a small Special Operations Force (SOF) contingent there for a unilateral direct action capability, and you’d need around 6,000 contractors to do what I just described – mentors, airpower, government support. Everybody else can go."
Whether Prince had any role in sabotaging the Afghan peace process or not, what is worth knowing is Trump's decision. Has Prince ultimately succeeded in convincing Trump to test his third option in Afghanistan?From another angle, Prince, a staunch Trump supporter had access to the White House. His sister, Betsy Devos is Trump's secretary of education. He was not convincing Trump – who might have been already convinced – through his media campaign. He was actually building public opinion through his articles and interviews in various media outlets in favor of privatizing the Afghan war.
In an interview with NBC News, Prince said he believes Trump advisers, who oppose his plan, are painting "as rosy a picture as they can" of the situation on the ground, including that "peace is around the corner" with recent U.S. efforts for peace talks with the Taliban. He said he believes Trump's advisers "over-emphasize the fluff and flare of these so-called peace talks."
The peace process is harmful to the firms running on war business. Peace deals terminate their contracts and dump the business prospects of these military companies. Then how could Blackwater contractors support or even tolerate a peace deal between the U.S. and the Taliban that would end the longest war in U.S. history?
The business of war contractors thrives on war – the longer the conflict, larger the profits. Is the U.S. set to continue the longest war of its history – perhaps an endless war?
Conflict zones around the world are mouthwatering prospects for these so-called war profiteers. The best-established conflict zones like Afghanistan are the goldmines for mercenaries. Blackwater still holds a black spot on its face from when its contractors gunned down 14 unarmed civilians in Iraq in 2007.
The war is not a business. It brings human disaster – human casualties and human tragedies. It adds to human agonies and sufferings.
War-torn Afghanistan cannot afford the repercussions of the third option. Peace talks with the Taliban could lead the U.S. somewhere, but the prolonging war would lead nowhere.
* Freelance op-ed contributor based in Karachi, Pakistan, contributing analyst at the South Asia desk of Wikistrat

Title: Afghanistan to swap 3 Taliban prisoners with US, Aussie professors - Chinadaily.com.cn
Xinhua |
          Updated: 2019-11-12 15:20
KABUL -- The Afghan government has decided to swap three Taliban prisoners with a US professor and an Australian professor kidnapped in August 2016 in Kabul, Afghan President Mohammad Ashraf Ghani announced on Tuesday.
Ghani named the Taliban prisoners as Annas Haqqani, Hajji Mali Khan and Hafiz Rashid.
"The decision was taken in close consultation with our international partners, including the United States, to pave the ground for direct talks with the Taliban and to find negotiated settlement for Afghanistan's crisis," Ghani said in an address broadcast live in state-run RTA TV.
Ghani did not give details where and when the swap of the prisoners will take place, saying the exchange would be on conditions for safe release of the professors.
The two lecturers served in American University of Afghanistan.
Annas Haqqani is the son of deceased Jalaluddin Haqqani, former leader of the Haqqani network militant group.
As a Taliban-linked militant group, the Haqqani network is mostly operating in eastern provinces and capital Kabul and responsible for many high-profile attacks on security forces.
The network was designated as a terrorist group by the United States in 2012.

Title: Pakistan’s Haqqani Network Increases Its Profile in Afghan Peace Talks – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
Has the Haqqani Network become fundamental to the Afghan peace process?
The recent prisoner swap between theUnited States and the Afghan Talibanis the first major development since the collapse of the peace talks earlier this year, which suggests that the peace process’ revival has been accepted by all major stakeholders. The development, which was facilitated by Islamabad and endorsed by the Afghan government, Washington, and the Taliban, indicates that the restoration of dialogue hasformally begun.
In Afghanistan’s context, the progress shows that the Afghan government is ready to work with the United States and other regional stakeholders despite the former’s previousrejection of the peace process. From the Afghan government’s perspective, the sanctioning of the recent exchange shows two things. First, while the Afghan government doesn’t stand to gain much from the prisoner swap, the former has no option but to agree with the parties making a deal. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani’s decision to allow the prisoner exchange is to an extent driven by his weakening legitimacy domestically, which is not only being challenged by his political rivals, but also by stakeholders that want to make a deal with the Taliban.
Nearlytwo months after the Afghan presidential election, the country is nowhere in terms of reaching a consensus on who won at the polls. It’s important to note that the Ghani and his longtime political rival, Abdullah Abdullah, have each claimed victory. A few weeks ago, Abdullah withdrew his team of observers from the ongoing official recount after accusingGhani of rigging. In a statement,Abdullahsaid that “any results from Afghanistan’s Independent Election Commission would be illegitimate if his observers are not present for the tally.” As of now, the Afghan presidential election is not only dead, but has also become irrelevant to the Afghan peace process.
Second, possible intra-Afghan dialogue, which is expected to come after a deal is reached between the United States and the Taliban cannot happen unless the first phase of the peace process finds some logical conclusion. Thus, months after a controversial presidential election thatnever gained political legitimacy, it makes sense for all Afghan political groups that U.S.-Taliban talks resume—even if it means releasing members of the Haqqani network.
On the Taliban’s part, the release of three senior Haqqani Network leaders raises interesting questions. For one, it underscores the Taliban’s close relationship with the group: in the past, the Haqqanis have helped the Taliban in enhancing the latter’s military effectiveness and operational impact and reach. Vahid Brown and Don Rassier, in their book,Fountainhead of Jihad: Haqqani Nexus, 1973-2012, note that “the relationship [between the Taliban and Haqqani’s] functions as a political alliance built upon similar histories, ideological connections, and a common vision for the future that accommodates each group’s regional preferences.” In a way, the Haqqanis have strengthened the Taliban’s campaigns over the years inregions outside Loya Paktia, particularly in Kabul. In this context, the release of the Haqqani’s members not only shows the closeness of the two groups but also points towards the former’s role in Afghan politics.
For Washington’s part, the prisoner exchange points toward the growing urgency, which is forcing the former to offer concessions that were not considered possible previously. It’s important to note that for a long time, the U.S. considered the Haqqanis a serious threat to its counter-terrorism operations in Afghanistan. Moreover, the group has remained one of the key reasons for Washington’s troubled relationship with Islamabad and its inability to force the Taliban to surrender. Arguably, the development also highlights that the Taliban’s future negotiations with the United States are not only going to be based onquantifiable conditions,but are also expected to be tougher than previously believed.
Additionally, the release emphasizes that the group may have a considerable role in the peace process. Bruce Riedel, in his bookWhat We Won: America’s Secret War in Afghanistan, 1979-89,notes that at one point “the U.S. embassy in Islamabad considered Haqqani[s] the finest and most capable Pashtun commander[s] in the war.” In this milieu, if Washington is to make a deal with the Taliban then the former will have to make a deal with the Haqqanis as well.
Pakistan’s role in the recent prisoner exchange has been stressed as crucial: last week, U.S. PresidentDonald J. Trumpcalled Prime Minister Imran Khan to thank him for facilitating the prison swap. As the United States is determined to secure a deal, Islamabad should be expected to extract maximum concessions to serve its security and political interests. Pakistan has had close ties not only with the Taliban, but also with the Haqqani network. Thus, the release of senior Haqqani members in exchange for two low-profile individuals would suit the interests of Islamabad.
In the coming days and weeks, the role of the Haqqani group and actors which support it can only be expected to grow in the Afghan peace process.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: Afghan Government Releases Militants In Apparent Exchange For American, Australian Captives
KABUL -- The Afghan government has released three key Taliban prisoners, including Anas Haqqani, the younger brother of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the leader of the Haqqani network, in exchange for two professors of the American University of Afgahnistan in Kabul, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani has announced.
The prisoners were released on November 12 from Bagram prison, Ghani said in a live press conference the same day.
Besides Haqqani, Afghan officials have said two other prominent Taliban militants -- Hafiz Rashid Omari and Haji Milli Khan -- were released.
Ahead of the release, Ghani said the prisoners would only be freed if the Taliban in turn released American Kevin King and Australian Timothy Weeks, who were abducted three years ago.
"Our joint effort in tracing the two professors gave no result, and information suggests that their health and safety while being held by the kidnapping terrorists have deteriorated," he said.
King, 60, and Weeks, 48, were kidnapped by the Taliban in August 2016.
They “will be sent to Qatar under U.S. supervision,” one unnamed Afghan official told RFE/RL.Neither the Taliban or the Haqqani network, which is part of the militant group, have commented so far.The U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan, John Bass, told RFE/RL that the United States "strongly" supported Ghani's "courageous" decision to release the three prisoners and called on the militants to release "Afghan security force prisoners and Western hostages" in return."We hope that it produces a gesture on the part of the Talibs which indicates that they are interested in moving past the current language of violence and again exploring ways to reduce the violence, to begin talking, and to find a political settlement that ends this war that has gone for far too many years," Bass said.The American University of Afghanistan said it was "encouraged to hear reports of the possible release of our two colleagues, Kevin King and Timothy Weeks."“We continue to urge the immediate and safe return of our faculty members who have been held in captivity, away from their friends and families, for more than three years,” astatementsaid.
No media source currently available
The deal could pave the way for peace talks between the Taliban and the Afghan government. The militant group has so far refused to talk to the Afghan government, which it says is a U.S. puppet.
The Haqqani network was founded by the late Jalaluddin Haqqani, the father of Sirajuddin and Anas Haqqani who died in September 2018.
The United States, after allying with Jalaluddin Haqqani to fight the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in the 1980s, by 2012 had designated his organization a terrorist group. It has been fighting against NATO and Afghan government forces since 2001.The Haqqani network, known for carrying out brutal attacks in Afghanistan, is believed to be based in Pakistan.According to Afghan officials, Anas Haqqani is an information-technology expert who played a key role in the network's "strategic decision-making" and fundraising.Hafiz Abdul Rashid Omari is the brother of Muhammad Nabi Omari, the former Guantanamo inmate who is currently a key member of the Taliban political office in Qatar.Operatives of the Afghan intelligence agency, the National Directorate of Security (NDS), arrested Anas Haqqani and Omari in the eastern Khost Province in 2014. Haji Milli Khan is the uncle of Anas Haqqani and was reportedly arrested by U.S. forces in eastern Paktika Province in 2011.
The development stems from marathon negotiations between U.S. special envoy to Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad and the Taliban.Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan had said during a three-day visit to Washington in July that he would do his best to help release the American University teachers.He told U.S. President Donald Trump on July 23 that Islamabad would have "good news" soon about the two captive teachers.
No media source currently available
Germany deported several dozen Afghans in August -- all of them convicted criminals -- for the first time since the Taliban takeover in 2021. But the move has fueled panic among Germany's large Afghan community, many of whom fear they could be next as Berlin tightens the country's asylum policies and anti-immigration parties rise in popularity.
Central Asian countries are taking steps to broaden relations with their southern neighbor, the Taliban-led Afghanistan, despite the hard-line group’s increasingly restrictive policies, particularly toward women.
Kyrgyzstan removed the Taliban from its list of terrorist organizations earlier this month, Turkmenistan resumed work with Afghanistan on a major gas-pipeline project, and Uzbekistan signed $2.5 billion worth of cooperation agreements with Kabul during the Uzbek prime minister’s high-profile visit to Afghanistan in August.
Kyrgyz Foreign Minister Jeenbek Kulubaev said on September 6 that the measure aims to "secure regional stability and further develop ongoing dialogue."
On September 11, Turkmen and Taliban officials held a ceremony to mark the resumption of the much-delayed Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India (TAPI) gas-pipeline project, which is designed to transport up to 33 billion cubic meters of natural gas from Turkmenistan to South Asia each year.
The ceremony in the Turkmen border town of Serhetabat was attended by former President Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov, the head of the powerful People’s Council of Turkmenistan, while the Taliban delegation was led by its prime minister, Mohammad Hassan Akhund, who is on a UN sanctions list.
Turkmen President Serdar Berdymukhammedov joined the ceremony via a video link.
The estimated $10 billion TAPI project was first designed in the 1990s but was repeatedly delayed due to war and instability in Afghanistan.
Turkmenistan hopes the proposed 1,800-kilometer pipeline will become a key source of revenue for cash-strapped Ashgabat.
And Afghanistan would earn about $500 million in transit fees annually, a major boost to its budget.
The future of TAPI, however, remains in doubt due to Western sanctions on the Taliban administration and the absence of official recognition of the government in Kabul that could hamper funding and investment in the project.
No country in the world has formally recognized the Taliban government.High-Profile Visit
In August, Uzbek Prime Minister Abdulla Oripov went to Kabul, marking the highest-level visit by a foreign government official since the Taliban took power in Kabul three years ago.
During the visit, Uzbek and Taliban officials reportedly signed investment and trade deals worth about $2.5 billion in the energy, agriculture, and manufacturing sectors.
Afghanistan and Kazakhstanannouncedin August 2023 that they were planning to increase bilateral trade to $3 billion.
Kazakhstan, Central Asia’s largest economy, was the first country to delist the Taliban as a terror organization in December 2023.
But while Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan were quick to make visits to Kabul after the Taliban returned to power, Tajikistan was the only Central Asian country to take a harsh stance on the new rulers in Afghanistan.'Accepting Reality'
Dushanbe’s position has been largely linked to its ethnic, linguistic, and historic connection to the mainly ethnic Tajik opponents to the Taliban, which is predominantly ethnic Pashto.
But Tajikistan now appears to be softening it policies toward the Taliban in a move that Tajik experts describe as “accepting reality.”
Tajikistan exports electricity to Kabul and has established severalmarketsin border towns where local merchants from the two sides sell goods. The governments also reportedly discussed cooperation in the fight against militants who target Tajikistan from inside Afghan territory.
Both Dushanbe and Kabul have a shared interest in defeating the Islamic State-Khurasan terrorist group, which has recruited many militants from Tajikistan.
Afghan media reported that the head of Tajikistan’s state Committee for National Security, Saimuddin Yatimov, had a meeting with Taliban intelligence chief Abdul Haq Wasiq in late August. Tajik authorities have neither confirmed nor denied those reports.
Speaking on condition of anonymity, a Dushanbe-based expert told RFE/RL’s Tajik Service that “given Tajikistan’s vast shared border with Afghanistan, the threats of terrorist attacks, and economic incentives, Tajik authorities have no choice but to opt for geopolitical cooperation” with the Taliban.
Some experts claim that China and Kazakhstan have played a role in convincing Dushanbe to change its attitude toward the Taliban administration.Addressing high-ranked officials from members of the Collective Security Treaty Organization in Almaty in June, Kazakh President Qasym-Zhomart Toqaev called the Taliban “a long-term factor” and highlighted what he described as “the importance of developing trade and economic cooperation with modern Afghanistan.”
Welcome to The Azadi Briefing, an RFE/RL newsletter that unpacks the key issues in Afghanistan. To subscribe,click here.
I'm Abubakar Siddique, a senior correspondent at RFE/RL's Radio Azadi. Here's what I've been tracking and what I'm keeping an eye on in the days ahead.
A new report by the United Nations has documented a significant uptick in violence in Taliban-ruled Afghanistan.In its quarterlyreport, the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) noted a 53 percent rise in violence between May 14 and July 31 compared to the same period last year.UNAMA recorded 2,127 security-related incidents. Many of the attacks were carried out by anti-Taliban resistance groups, including the National Resistance Front and the Afghanistan Freedom Front, as well as the Islamic State-Khorasan (IS-K) extremist group.There was also an increase in armed clashes, detonations of improvised explosive devices, and land disputes.
Why It's Important:Rising violence in Afghanistan contradicts the Taliban's claims that it has restored order in the country three years after it seized power.But the increasing violence is unlikely to lead to the immediate downfall of the Taliban government or trigger a civil war.The two main anti-Taliban resistance groups carried out a total of 73 attacks during the reporting period. Most were "hit-and-run" attacks and targeted assassinations of Taliban members.UNAMA said that "the armed opposition continued to pose no significant challenge to the Taliban's hold on territorial control."IS-K has continued its attacks against the Taliban, religious minorities, and foreigners, despite a brutal Taliban crackdown."The simmering levels of violence are concerning," said Graeme Smith, a senior Afghanistan analyst at the Brussels-based International Crisis Group. "Still, the latest figures make it clear that the country remains a postwar environment."A database of violent attacks and fatalities by ACLED, a data-collection, analysis, and crisis-mapping project, shows that violence peaked during the summer of 2022 after the Taliban’s return to power a year earlier. Attacks reached their lowest levels in January of this year but have peaked since then."Some of these trends are seasonal," Smith said of the historical pattern of violence in Afghanistan, which rises in the warmer months and declines in winter.
What's Next:Anti-Taliban resistance groups are likely to continue their low-level conflict against the Taliban.A mostly Pashtun group dominated by clerics, the Taliban has monopolized power and sidelined many of the country’s ethnic and religious groups as well as political factions.IS-K is likely to remain the biggest threat to the Taliban, which has eroded but not eliminated its rival's capabilities.
A diplomatic spat has erupted after a Taliban diplomat refused tostand upwhen the Pakistani national anthem was played during an event in the country's northwest.Islamabad complained to Kabul and summoned Afghanistan's most senior diplomat in Pakistan in protest over the incident on September 17.Pakistan's Foreign Ministry accused the Taliban diplomat of "disrespect" and said the incident was "reprehensible."The Taliban has not officially commented on the incident. But pro-Taliban figures on social media rejected Islamabad's criticism. They said the diplomat did not stand up during the anthem because the Taliban has banned music and considers it forbidden.
Why It's Important:This diplomatic spat marks a new low in bilateral relations marked by regular accusations and threats, border clashes and closures, and Pakistan's expulsion of Afghan refugees.Islamabad has pressured the Taliban to rein in or expel members of the Tehrik-e Taliban Pakistan extremist group. Islamabad has accused the Taliban of sheltering the militants, which have increased their attacks in Pakistan.
That's all from me for now.
Don't forget to send me any questions, comments, or tips that you have. You can always reach us atazadi.english@rferl.org
Until next time,
Abubakar Siddique
If you enjoyed this briefing and don't want to miss the next edition,subscribe here. It will be sent to your inbox every Friday.
Afghanistan's decadeslong fight to eradicate the crippling polio virus has suffered a new blow after the Taliban suspended a national vaccination campaign.
The hard-line Islamist group informed UN agencies of its decision just before the start of the immunization drive in September, the world body said on September 16. The Taliban has denied halting the vaccinations.Afghans have expressed fear that any suspension would represent a major setback to eradicating polio, a childhood virus that leads to deformed limbs, paralysis, and even death.Afghanistan and neighboring Pakistan are the only countries in the world where polio remains endemic.
"This is very worrying for our children," Mari Amiri, a mother of four who lives in the northern Takhar Province, told RFE/RL's Radio Azadi. "They are the future of our country."
Noorullah, a resident of the capital, Kabul, criticized the Taliban's decision to "limit access to such a vital means for preventing a dangerous disease.""Instead of addressing our problems, they are creating new ones," Zuhal, a woman who lives in Kabul, told Radio Azadi.Rising Number Of CasesThe Taliban's suspension of vaccinations comes as the number of polio cases rise in Afghanistan.
The World Health Organization (WHO) says it has detected 18 new poliovirus cases so far this year, a significant increase compared to 2023, when six cases were recorded.The Taliban's Health Ministry on September 17 denied that the group had suspended or delayed the polio vaccination drive.
In astatement, ministry spokesman Sharafat Zaman said the Taliban was trying to implement the vaccination campaign "through the best possible means available."But a polio worker in the eastern province of Nangarhar, who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of retribution, said the polio-immunization campaign in the region was suspended because local Taliban officials were "demanding tax from aid organizations." The worker's claim could not be verified by RFE/RL.The Taliban has previously been accused of attempting todivertor manipulate aid distribution as well as imposing taxes on humanitarian groups and their activities.During a nationwide campaign in June, a house-to-house vaccination strategy was used for the first time in five years in a bid to reach more children.But in the southern province of Kandahar, a stronghold of the Taliban, less-effective site-to-site or mosque-to-mosque vaccination campaigns were used, WHO said.
Hamid Jafari, director of polio eradication at WHO, told theAssociated Pressthat the organization was holding discussions with the Taliban over "shifting from house-to-house polio vaccination campaigns to site-to-site vaccination in parts of Afghanistan."'Impede Or Influence'In recent decades, Afghanistan's battle to eradicate polio has been thwarted by militant attacks and anti-vaccination propaganda.Some radical Islamic clerics and militants have claimed that the polio vaccine is a Western conspiracy to harm or sterilize children.Anti-vaccination propaganda has been fueled by a distrust of Western governments who fund vaccine programs, including after the CIA reportedly staged a fake hepatitis-vaccination campaign in 2011 to confirm the location of Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden -- living in the Pakistani garrison town of Abbottabad -- where he was killed by U.S. SEALs.Insurgents in Afghanistan and Pakistan have even kidnapped, beaten, and assassinated dozens of vaccinators or their armed police escorts in recent years in a bid to stop local anti-polio campaigns.
Mullah Mohammad Omar, the Taliban's late founder, in 2007 issued a decree in support of polio vaccinations.But Ashley Jackson, the co-founder of the Center on Armed Groups, says the vaccinations have long been a source of contention within the Taliban."The Taliban cannot go against a decree from its founder," she said. "But they can try to impede or influence how vaccinations are carried out."Jackson added that there is a "feeling, especially with house-to-house vaccinations, that vaccinators ask invasive questions and might have ulterior motives."She said the Taliban's recent suspension is a setback, but "both sides will find some compromise that allows them to resume," as has happened in the past.The polio vaccination campaign is seen as a boon for the cash-strapped Taliban government.Vaccine campaigns employ thousands of health workers in Afghanistan, which is grappling with mass unemployment and rising poverty."Many within the [Taliban] government see this external funding as an essential form of support for the struggling health sector," Jackson said.
Afghanistan's Taliban-run Health Ministry on September 17 rejected reports saying the hard-line group has suspended or delayed a major polio vaccination drive.
Ministry spokesman Sharafat Zamancalled such reports falseand said there was no official directive to postpone or stop the anti-polio plans.Instead, he said, Taliban health officials are trying to implement the vaccination campaign in a legitimate and technical way that benefits society.A day earlier, APquoteda top official from the World Health Organization (WHO) as saying it was aware of discussions to move away from house-to-house vaccinations and instead administer immunizations site-to-site in places like mosques.
Local and international observers have repeatedly warned of humanitarian challenges since the Taliban took control of the country as the U.S.-led international coalition withdrew in mid-2021, heightened by a lack of recognition of the group's government in Kabul.The WHO has confirmed 18 polio cases in Afghanistan this year, up from six cases in 2023, and had announced a sweeping anti-polio drive for September.A nationwide house-to-house anti-polio campaign in June was the first in at least five years, and WHO authorities said the scheme allowed its vaccinators to reach most of the children it was targeting.Kamal Shah, a former communications officer at UNICEF, the UN agency responsible for humanitarian and other aid to children worldwide, has urged officials to better integrate the Taliban into polio vaccination efforts.
Afghanistan and neighboring Pakistan are the only countries in the world where polio is still endemic.The WHO has warned that high cross-border traffic between those two countries heightens the risk of polio spreading.
The Taliban has suspended polio vaccination campaigns in Afghanistan, the UN said on September 16. Afghanistan is one of two countries in which the spread of the potentially fatal, paralyzing disease has never been stopped. The other is Pakistan. News of the suspension was relayed to UN agencies right before the September immunization campaign was due to start. No reason was given for the suspension, and no one from the Taliban-controlled government was immediately available for comment. A top official from the World Health Organization (WHO) said it was aware of discussions to move away from house-to-house vaccinations and instead have immunizations in places like mosques. The WHO has confirmed 18 polio cases in Afghanistan this year, up from six cases in 2023.
Veteran Afghan warlord and former politician Abdul Rashid Dostum hasurged groupsthat oppose the fundamentalist Taliban to unite to form a government-in-exile for Afghanistan to challenge that extremist group's unrecognized leadership.
Dostum, an ethnic Uzbek and longtime kingmaker who along with his private army has been accused of past rights abuses, was speaking to a virtual gathering of a Turkish-based Afghan resistance group on September 15.
Dostum said last year that his fighters were prepared to take on the Taliban once the international community concluded that it cannot deal with the hard-line extremist group.
The chameleonic Dostum formerly served under the UN-backed former Afghan government as a deputy defense minister.
He also held other party and military posts in Afghanistan before the U.S.-led international forces withdrew in mid-2021.
Dostum, whose historical power bases were in northern and western Afghanistan, ran unsuccessfully for the Afghan presidency in 2004.
He was also widely thought to be a major figure in factional fighting that plagued the country for decades and sometimes pitted ostensibly allied armed forces against each another.
In 2019, when he was first vice president, Dostum was said to have narrowly escaped when his convoy was attacked by Taliban forces in a northern province.
A day later, the Taliban, which was waging a fierce insurgency against the central government in Kabul,saidDostum remained on its hit list.
The Taliban raided homes and summarily executed many perceived enemies as the group swept into de facto power after capturing most of the country in 2020-21.
The subsequent Taliban-led government has waged a campaign of discrimination and abuse against women and been accused of persecuting minority groups in Afghanistan, among other alleged wrongdoing.
Welcome to The Azadi Briefing, an RFE/RL newsletter that unpacks the key issues in Afghanistan. To subscribe,click here.
I'm Abubakar Siddique, a senior correspondent at RFE/RL's Radio Azadi. Here's what I've been tracking and what I'm keeping an eye on in the days ahead.
Afghanistan has briefly returned to the headlines as the United States heads toward a crucial November presidential election.
Republicans and Democrats blamed each other for failing to conclude an orderly withdrawal to end the conflict in Afghanistan, the longest war in American history.
In the September 10 presidentialdebate, Vice President and Democratic presidential candidate Kamala Harris defended President Joe Biden's decision to withdraw from Afghanistan. She blamed her opponent, former President and Republican candidate Donald Trump, for concluding the 2020 Doha agreement with the Taliban, which "bypassed the Afghan government."
In response, Trump defended the Doha deal as "a very good agreement." He blamed the Biden administration for losing soldiers during the withdrawal, leaving behind weapons, and not enforcing the terms of the agreement.
On September 8, a new investigative report by House Republicans blamed Biden's administration for the chaotic final withdrawal from Afghanistan.
Representative Michael McCaul (Republican-Texas), who led the probe as chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said the Biden administration "had the information and opportunity" to plan for the inevitable collapse of the Afghan government. Still, it chose, "optics over security," he said.
However, the State Departmentaccusedthe committee of issuing partisan statements, cherry-picking facts, and obfuscating "the truth behind conjecture."
Why It's Important:America's war in Afghanistan -- particularly its disastrous end -- is unlikely to vanish from public memory and from political debates on how the U.S.-led war on terrorism was conducted and how it ended.
Another ongoing probe will likely shed even more light on the war, which lasted for over two decades, between 2001 and 2021.
The Afghanistan War Commission, a bipartisan legislative body comprised of former U.S. government officials with experience of the war, is probing the conflict. Its report is slated to be released in 2026.
Like the 9/11 Commission report, on which it is modeled, it is likely to attract a great deal of public interest and scrutiny.
What's Next:Renewed attention on Afghanistan will likely increase amid the partisan rancor ahead of the November 5 presidential election.
However, it is unlikely to prompt a significant change in Washington's policy toward the country in the short term.
Afghanistan's Taliban rulers and Turkmen leader Gurbanguly Berdymukhammedov inaugurated the construction of the Afghan section of the Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India (TAPI) pipeline.
On September 11, the Taliban held a groundbreaking ceremony for the long-delayed pipeline.
Zabihullah Mujahid, the Taliban's top spokesman,saidAshgabat will invest in building the pipeline, money that will be returned, the group says, when his government begins collecting transit fees estimated to be more than $500 million per annum.
Mujahid said that the pipeline inside Afghanistan will be built in three phases. The first phase, according to the spokesman, will connect the Turkmen border to the western Afghan city of Herat and will be built within two years from now. It will then begin supplying gas to the energy-starved country. The second phase will extend the pipeline to the southern province of Helmand. In the third phase, TAPI will go through the southern province of Kandahar and on to Pakistan.
The 1,800-kilometer pipeline will carry 33 billion cubic meters of natural gas annually through southern Afghanistan to Pakistan's southwestern Balochistan Province. From there, it will go through Pakistan's eastern Punjab Province to Fazilka in India's northwestern Punjab state.
Why It's Important:TAPI has long been touted as a significant regional energy project.
But insecurity in Afghanistan and the lack of international investment has prevented it from taking shape.
Given the Taliban's lack of transparency about significant infrastructure projects, it is still possible that TAPI will remain just a pipe dream.
That's all from me for now.
Don't forget to send me any questions, comments, or tips that you have. You can always reach us atazadi.english@rferl.org
Until next time,
Abubakar Siddique
If you enjoyed this briefing and don't want to miss the next edition,subscribe here. It will be sent to your inbox every Friday.
A regional branch of the Islamic State (IS) extremist group has claimed responsibility for a deadly attackin central Afghanistan targeting Shi'ite pilgrims.
The Islamic State-Khorasan (IS-K) group on September 12 published images showing the massacred pilgrims, believed to belong to the Hazara minority persecuted by the Sunni IS-K.
Hadi Rahimi Zada, a former council member in Daykundi Province, where the killings took place,toldRFE/RL's Radio Azadi that 14 people were killed by unidentified gunmen in the attack.
Some other local sources told Radio Azadi that the killings were carried out by armed men on motorcycles.
A resident of Daykundi Province who spoke on condition of anonymity out of security concerns said that the group targeted had gathered to welcome pilgrims returning from Karbala in Iraq, a Shi'ite holy site.
"Their relatives had returned to Firouzkoh from Karbala. These people were going to welcome them. Four people attacked them and 14 people were killed," the source said. "They were all young men, and five others were injured."
Abdul Matin Qani, a spokesman for the Taliban's Interior Ministry confirmed the attack in Daykundi Province, saying on September 12 that further details would be announced.
The IS-K has carried out numerous attacks since the Taliban seized power in August 2021, often targeting Taliban officials, foreign nationals, and the Shi'ite Hazara community.
TheIS-K wasfounded in Afghanistanin 2014 as a regional branch of the Islamic State extremist group that aims to expand throughout South and Central Asia. Khorasan refers to a historical region that comprised parts of modern-day Afghanistan, Iran, and Central Asia.
After the Taliban's de facto government cut ties with a number of diplomatic missions operated abroad by diplomats loyal to the ousted Afghan republic, the British and Norwegian authorities have opted to shut down Afghan embassies on their soil.
Both Oslo and London say their decisions in no way represent official recognition of the Taliban's rule in Afghanistan, which no country recognizes due to concerns over a woeful human rights record and other failures to live up to promises it made before seizing power in August 2021.
But experts say the embassy closures are likely to pave the way for more engagement with the Taliban, which controls all of Afghanistan's territory and has increased its hold on power.
Diplomats who served the former Afghan government were left in limbo when the Taliban took control, but remained open for business in some Western states and continued to assist Afghan citizens.
The window on their operations began to close when the Talibanannouncedin July that it was cutting ties with 14 such missions in Western countries and that it would not accept any consular documents they processed, a critical source of funding to keep them running.
Many of the consular services, such as verification of identity documents or police clearance, offered by the embassies do require a degree of cooperation from the country's government because diplomatic missions might not be able to access all government data.
This month, the British Foreign Office announced that it was shutting down the Afghan Embassy in London, explaining to RFE/RL on September 9 that the decision was made after the "dismissal of its staff by the Taliban."
Norway quickly followed suit, announcing that the Afghan Embassy in Oslo would be shut down on September 12.
Both the British and Norwegian governments have indicated that the move does not amount to a formal recognition of the Taliban's hard-line government. And the embassy buildings, which are Afghanistan's properties, will be eventually handed over to a "recognized" government of Afghanistan.
But Hameed Hakimi, an Afghanistan expert, says the decisions to shut the embassies can be taken as "reality setting in" that the Taliban is "unlikely to be replaced in the immediate future."
And for the Taliban, he says, it creates an opportunity to argue that its rule is being acknowledged, even without formal recognition.
"The Taliban can use this to their advantage in their pursuit of claiming legitimacy with the Afghans and internationally," said Hakimi, an associate fellow at London's Chatham House think tank.
More than a dozen countries, mostly Afghanistan'sneighbors, already operate embassies in Kabul, and some have accredited Taliban diplomats. The Taliban government also partially controls diplomatic missions in some countries, and has established working relations with Afghan diplomatic missions in the Czech Republic, Spain, the Netherlands, Bulgaria, and the Afghan Consulate in Munich.
The missions operating in Western countries staffed by diplomats appointed by the previous government are the outlier.
Hakimi said that if all those missions are shut down, it "truly signifies the closure of the chapter of the Afghan Islamic Republic."
The Afghan Islamic Republic, as it was formally known, emerged soon after a U.S.-led military alliance toppled the Taliban government in November 2001 following the 9/11 terrorist attacks in New York and Washington.
Nearly two decades later, the internationally recognized Afghan republic collapsed as the Taliban seized power in the wake of the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan.
The Taliban, meanwhile, recreated its brutal emirate from the 1990s by imposing harsh bans and discriminatory laws that resulted in widespread human rights violations. Afghan women and girls are deprived of education and employment in most sectors and lack fundamental freedoms.
These Taliban policies have so far kept its government from being officially recognized. This absence of recognition has complicated engagement with the Taliban government on important issues, such as humanitarian aid, and made it difficult for the estimated 2 million Afghans living in Western countries to access consular services.
Graeme Smith, a senior Afghanistan analyst at the Brussels-based International Crisis Group, says Western governments might be acting on the UN special coordinator's recommendation to facilitate the processing of documentation for Afghans abroad.
In his report endorsed by the UN Security Council in December 2023, Feridun Sinirlioglu, the UN special coordinator for Afghanistan, called for better cooperation between the Taliban regime and the outside world to ensure that Afghans can obtain the paperwork they need to continue with their daily lives.
"Afghans have been suffering in limbo without clarity about where to go when they need identity papers or travel documents," Smith said, describing how Afghans who still do not have travel documents from another country suffer from the lack of consular services.
"The steps we are witnessing now may represent practical efforts by some governments" to remedy the situation, Smith said.
The challenge remains, he said, to ensure that efforts "aimed at pressuring the regime do not sabotage the lives and livelihoods of Afghans."
Many Western capitals are also grappling with the complex issue of what to do with Afghan asylum seekers whose applications were rejected.
Last month, Germanydeported28 Afghan men convicted of crimes in the country to Kabul, with Qatar playing an intermediary role in securing the Taliban's cooperation in accepting the returning Afghans.
Smith said that some countries "are discovering the usefulness" of having a consular presence "connected to the authorities in Kabul" if they need to arrange the return of Afghan migrants.
"But it's unclear if that motivated the recent closures," he said.
Both Britain and Norway have not said anything about whether they will allow the Taliban government to offer consular services in London and Oslo.
The fates of the Afghan Embassy in Berlin and consulate in Bonn are not clear, although the consulate in Munich is likely to remain open because it cooperates with the Taliban government on consular services.
In London, Afghanistan expert Hakimi said the closure could create an "opportunity for the Taliban to lobby with the Western countries" and allow its representatives to at least run counselor services.
These Afghan diplomatic missions can remain closed indefinitely, similar to what happened in the United States, where the Afghan Embassy and two consulates have been closed since March 2002. The Afghan Embassy in Canada offers remote consular services to Afghans living in the United States.
In Norway, Afghans have mixed feelings about their embassy's closure.
Sima Nouri, an Afghan woman living in Oslo, is worried over how her compatriots will now access consular services.
"There is a possibility that the process of forced deportation of Afghan refugees will begin," she told RFE/RL's Radio Azadi. "This process, however, must be stopped."
Mina Rafiq, another Afghan woman in Norway, prefers shutting the embassy down to cooperating with the Taliban.
"This might work to the advantage of Afghan asylum seekers," she said, "because the Norwegian government will now have to give them necessary documents."
Taliban authorities confirmed on September 12 that civilians had been shot dead that day in an attack in central Afghanistan but provided no further details. "Unknown gunmen have opened fire and have killed the civilians," Abdul Matin Qani, a spokesman for the Taliban's Interior Ministry told the AFP news agency, adding that further details on the attack in Daykundi Province would be announced later. Local sources told RFE/RL that unidentified armed men on motorbikes shot dead at least 12 Hazara civilians at the border of Afghanistan’s Ghor and Daykundi provinces. The sources spoke with RFE/RL on condition of anonymity for security reasons. A source in the province who spoke with AFP said 14 people were killed and at least four wounded. The source said a group had gathered to welcome pilgrims returning from Karbala in Iraq, a Shi’ite holy site. The Islamic State extremist group claimed responsibility for the attack.
A small group of Afghan women took to the streets of Kabul on September 11 in a rare protest to demand their rights and call on the international community to denounce Taliban rule. More than 10 women participated in the demonstration, advocating for the restoration of basic freedoms that have been severely curtailed under the Taliban-led government since the group seized power three years ago. The protest was organized by the Afghan Women's History Transformation Movement. Ruqiya Sa'i, head of the movement, said the women ended the protest after 30 minutes because of the possibility of a violent attack by the Taliban. The severe restrictions on women ban education beyond the sixth grade and bar them from working in many offices.To read the full story by RFE/RL’s Radio Azadi, clickhere.
In the immediate aftermath of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks against the United States, Secretary of State Colin Powell gave assurances that America would deal with the tragedy by bringing those responsible to justice while protecting the world's democracies.
"They will never be allowed to kill the spirit of democracy," Powell said. "They cannot destroy our society. Theycannot destroy our beliefin the democratic way."
President George W. Bush, who won office in 2000 as a candidate who would be cautious about committing U.S. troops to foreign wars, quickly made fighting global terrorism a top policy, and set about establishing an international "coalition of the willing" to carry out the mission.
The U.S.-led invasion of Afghanistan had the primary goal of punishing the Al-Qaeda terrorist network, which had been given refuge in Afghanistan and carried out the deadly 9/11 attacks. And once on Afghan soil, Washington quickly ousted the Taliban regime accused of sheltering Al-Qaeda from power.
Costly Campaign
But the U.S. experience in Afghanistan ultimately ended in failure, and with the hard-line Taliban group back in power. The nearly 20-year war ended with immense costs in terms of lives lost and money spent. And it made the U.S. public and politicians on both sides of the aisle in Washington reluctant to get involved in "forever wars" that could not be won.
"More than $2 trillion spent in Afghanistan," U.S. President Joe Biden said on August 31, 2021, inannouncingthe official endof the United States' longest-ever war. "20,744 American servicemen and women injured, and the loss of 2,461 American personnel."
In explaining to the U.S. public that he was "not going to extend this forever war," Biden did not mention the estimated 70,000deaths among Afghan security forces, more than 46,000 Afghan civilian deaths, and the deaths of more than 4,000 allied troops and U.S. contractors.
The withdrawal under Biden has become a lightning rod for debate ahead of the U.S. presidential election on November 5. Republican nominee and former President Donald Trump has blasted Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris, who is running against Trump, for the "humiliation in Afghanistan," with much of the criticism centered on the chaotic last days of the withdrawal, when 13 U.S. soldiers and 170 Afghan civilians died in a bombing by the Islamic State-Khorasan extremist group.
Harris's campaign, meanwhile, has highlighted Trump's role as president in signing the 2020 deal with the Taliban that paved the way for the withdrawal and provided a"virtually impossible"deadline.
But experts who spoke to RFE/RL stressed that multiple U.S. administrations, beginning with Democratic President Barack Obama's from 2009 to 2017 -- had come to the realization that what had begun as a fight against terrorism had become an overly costly and potentially "forever" endeavor.
"It was an extremely expensive war in a place that was probably least important to the United States," said Vali Nasr, a professor of international affairs and Middle East studies at Johns Hopkins University. "It was a war that the United States started to destroy Al-Qaeda, which it did very quickly, then to dislodge the Taliban from Afghanistan, which it did, and then it became something much bigger, like how to establish a democracy and a functioning government in Afghanistan and sustain it."
The question asked by Obama, who initiated an exit strategy by reducing the number of U.S. troops in Afghanistan, and later Trump, was whether there was a compelling reason to stay.
The United States "was becoming committed to a forever war, or a forever presence at the tune of billions of dollars a year and tens of thousands of troops, in a condition that the threat from Afghanistan had declined and the strategic value of the country was declining," Nasr said.
And the economy and civil society established under the protection of the U.S. military, he says, was not something Afghanistan could sustain on its own.
"What the United States created is like a tree that never grew roots," Nasr said. "So, at some point you're going to say, 'I'm going to stop watering it, and I'm going to take my hand off from trying to forcibly keep it upright.'"
No Good Outcome
Rajan Menon, an emeritus professor of international relations at the City College of New York and director of the Grand Strategy Program at Defense Priorities, said that "no matter how long [the United States] had stayed, I don't see what a good ending could have been."
The minimal good outcome, Menon says, would have been "a stable country with a government that may not have been democratic, but which could be counted upon not to serve as a platform for terror and which would have a positive relationship with the United States."
But in attempting to realize that goal, what you are essentially "trying to do is engage in nation-building," Menon said. Even a "very, very powerful military machine" like the United States has difficulties pulling that off, he said, and there "are no pretty exits."
To avoid the chaotic type of withdrawal that took place in Afghanistan, Menon said, "you have to build institutions, political and military and civic in nature." Without that, "once you leave and remove the military protection, the institutions will start crumbling, and that is exactly what happened."
U.S. wars and democracy-building efforts were not isolated to Afghanistan during its nearly 20-year campaign there. There were others -- most notably the costly war in Iraq from 2003 to 2011 -- that former Secretary of State Powell argued was necessitated by an alleged Iraqi program to build weapons of mass destruction that was later determined to be nonexistent.
Prior to his death in 2021 just six weeks after the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan, Powell said that his arguments before the UN Security Council "wasa great intelligence failure."
Baghdad and the United States, which sent troops back to Iraq in 2014 to help fight the Islamic State (IS) extremist group, are still trying to repair relations. According to the Soufan Center think tank on September 9, the two sides reportedly have reached an agreement to transition from the United States leading the effort against IS to a bilateral partnership.
'Forever' Ending?
So is the U.S. era of "forever wars" over?
Many of the unique circumstances that accompanied the Afghan invasion -- a direct attack on U.S. soil, counterterrorism becoming a focal point of U.S. policy, and the idea that nation-building is an effective solution -- are unlikely to repeat themselves, Nasr says.
And the mood in the United States amid a hotly contested election campaign could indicate that it will at least think twice.
With both Trump and Harris there is "a little bit of a backlash against the so-called forever wars...and I think the American public probably will be much less supportive" of involvement in them in the future," Menon said.
But Madiha Afzal, a fellow in the foreign policy program at Brookings, said in written comments that while "some of the lessons from the Afghanistan war" had started being discussed, particularly in the last couple of years of the conflict, "the disaster of the withdrawal...really focused the conversation in America on Afghanistan to be just about the withdrawal."
The larger discussion about the war, Afzal said, "has been entirely obscured," with much of the conversation becoming intensely partisan.
"I fear that the larger lessons of the 20-year war have been lost along the way," Afzal concluded.
The Tehrik-e Taliban Pakistan (TTP) extremist group has regained a foothold in northwestern Pakistan, imposing its brutal rule on hundreds of thousands of people.
Those who live under the TTP say the hard-line Islamist group has severely curbed freedoms and rights, including those of women. Assassinations, kidnappings, extortion, and harassment dominate daily life in some areas, they say.
The TTP was ousted from its bases by a major Pakistani military offensive in 2014. But in recent years it has reestablished its control in pockets of Pakistan’s northwestern province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, where it is currently active in 10 of the 34 districts.
The TTP often rules during the night. After dark, government forces frequently retreat to their posts and bases, and many civilians refuse to venture outside for fear of the militants, locals say.
The return of the TTP to the region has triggered an exodus that has seen thousands of professionals, businesspeople, and wealthy landowners flee the region.
“No one is safe, and no place is immune from their presence,” said Humayun Mehsud, who recently fled the district of South Waziristan. “They have returned in strength.”
Mehsud said he escaped his village after the TTP, also known as the Pakistani Taliban, kidnapped and killed his brother, a government worker.
Mehsud, who now lives in the Pakistani capital, Islamabad, said the TTP has established its own government in South Waziristan, which is home to around 900,000 people. The militants, he said, control the local economy and have established makeshift courts to settle disputes among locals.'Atmosphere Of Fear'
The TTP has imposed its extremist version of Islam in areas they control, locals say.
Listening to or playing music is banned. Barbers are barred from shaving or trimming men’s beards. Some girls’ schools have been shut or destroyed and restrictions have been placed on women leaving their homes in some areas.
"They want to limit our lives here the same way the Afghan Taliban did in their country,” said Saleem, a resident of the district of Lakki Marwat.
The TTP and Afghan Taliban have close ideological and organizational ties. Pakistan has accused the Afghan Taliban, which seized power in 2021, of sheltering the Pakistani militants.
Saleem, whose name has been changed to protect his identity, said the TTP has replaced the local authorities in Lakki Marwat, which is home to around 1 million people.
The police, he said, have abandoned their posts after coming under constant TTP attacks and locals are fleeing by their thousands.
Mohsin Tabeer Khan, a political activist and former university lecturer, is among those who have stayed in Lakki Marwat. Critical of the TTP, he has received threats from the militant group.
"The atmosphere of fear is pervasive," said Khan. "Everyone locks themselves up after sunset."
Khan said the TTP has targeted local government workers and security personnel in the district.
“If they catch you carrying a government ID card, you have to worry about your life,” he said.
Abubakar Kurmiwal said the TTP has recently made inroads in the district of Kurram.
He said the TTP on August 14 kidnapped his cousin, who was accused of being a government spy. Four days later, his body was found on the side of the road, he said.
“Women cannot leave their houses because of these militants,” he said. ‘The militants often force locals to feed them.”
Last month, the only school in his village was closed after all its teachers fled, he said.
'State Authority Collapses'Mohsin Dawar, a former lawmaker, has witnessed the TTP’s growing influence in his native district of North Waziristan.
First, it started with TTP fighters forcing locals to feed them, said Dawar. Soon after, the militants extorted businessmen and wealthy landowners. Now, they are destroying schools for girls in the district, he said.
“As the [Pakistani] Taliban gains strength, the state authority collapses,” said Dawar, who heads the secular National Democratic Movement (NDM) party.
“They first want to kill people whose deaths will generate news,” he said. "Everyone is at risk, but those who have some prominence in society are in their crosshairs,” added Dawar, who has survived several assassination attempts.
The TTP’s attacks have surged in Pakistan in recent years. The militant group has often targeted the army and police and largely refrained from hitting civilian targets.
Abdul Sayed, a Sweden-based researcher who tracks the TTP, said the group is “primarily targeting” the security forces in an attempt to drive them out of the region.
Pakistan earlier this year said the military would launch a new offensive to root out militants in the region. The planned military operation has beenfiercely opposedby locals in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, the scene of numerous offensives that killed thousands and uprooted millions of civilians in the past.
Protests have similarly been staged against the TTP and its return to the region.
Abdul Wahid, a local leader of the secular Awami National Party, said locals no longer fear the militants or the Pakistani military after enduring years of strife.
“There is a lot of political awareness here now,” said Wahid, who is from the district of Khyber. “We will protest and resist peacefully.”
The Afghan Embassy in London is being shut down after its diplomats were dismissed by the country's Taliban rulers, Britain's Foreign Office said on September 9.
A Foreign Office statement e-mailed to RFE/RL said the embassy "is being closed following the dismissal of its staff by the Taliban." Britain does not recognize the Taliban-led government.
But the Afghan ambassador said the decision was made "based on the requirements of the host country's authorities." Zalmai Rassoulsaidon X that the embassy would shut its doors on September 27 "at the official request of the host country."
Neither the U.K. government nor the ambassador said what would happen to the embassy's staff, but a source at the Afghan Embassy who spoke with RFE/RLsaidthe British government had given embassy staff 90 days to leave the country or apply for political asylum.
The source said the British Foreign Office also said that the embassy building would not be handed over to the Taliban and that the British government would not allow any Afghan political representation or consulate to operate until a recognized government was established in Afghanistan.
The Taliban-led government had asked the embassy staff to interact with the Foreign Office, but the embassy staff refused, and as a result, the embassy's services were declared invalid by the Taliban.
The news has worried Afghans living in Britain, who fear problems without the diplomatic services.
"After this, we Afghans will face many challenges because Afghans need to renew their passports, identity cards, and other documents," Sayed Shah Kharoti and Malik, two Afghans living in London, told RFE/RL.
Diplomats who served under Afghanistan's former Western-backed government were left in limbo when the Taliban seized Kabul and returned to power in August 2021. Many embassies in Europe and beyond have continued to operate.
In another indication that this could be changing, the Afghan Embassy in Oslo announced on September 9 that it will cease its activities as of September 12 and hand over the embassy building, which is the property of Afghanistan, to the Norwegian Foreign Ministry.
The Taliban administration announced in July that it no longer recognized diplomatic missions set up by the former Western-backed government and that documents issued by embassies in Britain and 13 other mostly European countries were invalid.
Many Taliban leaders are under sanctions, and no country officially recognizes them as Afghanistan's legitimate rulers, though some countries retain active diplomatic missions in Afghanistan, including Pakistan, Turkey, Qatar, and China.
Afghanistan has sent Taliban-approved diplomats to some of those countries, including Pakistan and China.
Britain and other Western countries are grappling with how to provide humanitarian aid Afghans without recognizing the Taliban-led government, which has dramatically curtailed education, employment, and personal freedom for women and girls.
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Volker Turk launched a four-week session of the UN's Human Rights Council with a call for global leadership to avert a "dystopian future," invoking urgent warnings about the treatment of women in Taliban-led Afghanistan and Ukrainians under near-constant Russian attack.
Midway through his four-year mandate as the UN's leading voice on human rights, Turk said the world was "at a fork in the road."
The world faces a choice between continuing into "a treacherous 'new normal'" that fosters "sleepwalk[ing] into a dystopian future" or "wak[ing] up and turn[ing] things around for the better, for humanity and the planet," he said.
Turk cited "endless, vicious military escalation and increasingly horrifying, technologically 'advanced' methods of warfare, control, and repression."
He also cited indifference to inequalities between and within countries, a disinformation "free-for-all," the twisting of national sovereignty "to shroud -- or excuse -- horrific violations," and the discrediting of multilateral institutions or trying to "rewrite the international rules."
Turk said human rights aren't in crisis, "but political leadership needed to make them a reality is."
"At their most extreme, for example in Afghanistan, despicable laws and policies are effectively erasing women from public life," Turk said in reference to the Taliban-led government that has led that country since a U.S.-led international coalition withdrew in mid-2021.
The Taliban seized power promising more moderate policies than when the hard-line fundamentalist group ruled the country some two decades earlier, but its leaders have since doubled down on the recreation of a totalitarian clerical regime, especially with regard to women, who have effectively been denied any public role in society.
Afghan women have been banned from working in many sectors and are barred from recreation and leisure activities such as visiting public parks and public baths, and also face severe restrictions on where and how they can appear in public.
Turk's concerns on Afghanistan were echoed in a warning ahead of the session by a Human Rights Watch (HRW) statement saying the UN Human Rights Council "should urgently create an independent body to pursue accountability for all those responsible for serious abuses -- past and present -- in Afghanistan."
HRW said the human rights and humanitarian reality there had "gravely spiraled downward" since August 2021.
Richard Bennett, the UN special rapporteur on human rights in Afghanistan,saidin his report ahead of the 57th session of the Human Rights Council that women and girls had been victim to ever-greater restrictions under the Taliban.
In his wide-rangingspeech, Turk also talked about horrific conditions for millions of Ukrainians and a region of Russia recently occupied by Ukraine as Russia's full-scale invasion grinds through its third year.
"In Ukraine, civilians are trapped in cycles of terror, through ongoing attacks by the Russian Federation striking civilian facilities like hospitals, schools, and supermarkets, and repeated waves of targeting of energy infrastructure leading to country-wide blackouts," Turk said. "I fear for Ukrainians this coming winter."
He also cited the "horrific" attacks in Israel by the U.S.- and EU-designated terrorist organization Hamas that killed more than 1,200 people and injured many more, and the subsequent deaths of more than 40,000 Palestinians at the hands of Israeli forces.
Fighting erupted again on September 9 between Taliban forces and Pakistani security forces in the Kurram-Khost border areas, with eyewitnesses saying the violence included heavy weaponry and one elder saying a Pakistani soldier had been killed, although that could not be confirmed.
The outbreak follows reports of intense clashes in the same border region between Afghanistan and Pakistan that caused multiple casualties over the weekend.Locals on the Afghan side of the bordertoldRadio Mashaal that the latest fighting started around 1 p.m. local time on September 9.Residents were said to be fleeing the villages of Palotsa and Setwan in the Zazai Maidan district of Afghanistan's Khost Province.
A local elder told Radio Mashaal that a Pakistani soldier had been killed but Radio Mashaal could not independently confirm that report.Intermittent outbreaks of violence have heightened concerns about security in the region, with recent fighting sparked by an attempt to erect a security outpost on the Afghan side that Pakistani troops tried to stop.Islamabad insists mutual agreements preclude the construction of new security posts by either side.The Taliban-led government in Afghanistan has disputed Pakistani accusations that it is allowing gunmen linked to the outlawed Tehrik-e Taliban to shelter in the area and launch cross-border attacks in Pakistan.The Taliban has moved reinforcement troops, artillery, and tanks to the area.Radio Mashaal's Khost correspondent said the Taliban was preventing locals and journalists from sharing information with media or outsiders.
The State Department accused House Republicans of cherry-picking the facts and withholding information in a lengthy report on the withdrawal of U.S. troops in Afghanistan in August 2021.
The State Department's response to the report issued by the House Foreign Affairs Committee on September 9 also highlighted the deeply partisan nature of the report in the midst of the U.S. presidential campaign.
The Republicans on the committee and other Republicans in the House of Representatives, where the party holds the majority, "issued partisan statements, cherry-picked facts, withheld testimonies from the American people, and obfuscated the truth behind conjecture," the State Departmentsaid.
The report specificallypointsto the Biden-Harris administration and their "failure to plan for all contingencies."
The House Republicans blamed the disastrous end of the United States' longest war on the Biden administration and Vice President Kamala Harris, the Democrats' current presidential nominee. The role of former President Donald Trump, who had signed the withdrawal deal with the Taliban, was minimized.
Representative Michael McCaul (Republican-Texas), chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said the review revealed that the Biden administration "had the information and opportunity to take necessary steps to plan for the inevitable collapse of the Afghan government."
But instead of taking steps toward a safe evacuatation "the administration picked optics over security," McCaul said in a statement.
The review lays out the final months of military and civilian failures, following Trump's February 2020 withdrawal deal, that allowed the fundamentalist Taliban to sweep through and conquer all of the country even before the last U.S. officials flew out on August 30, 2021.
The chaotic exit left behind many U.S. citizens, Afghan battlefield allies, women activists, and others at risk from the Taliban.
The State Department said Biden "acted in the best interests of the American people when he decided to bring our troops home and end America's longest war."
The department's response also drew similarities to a 2022 report prepared by Republican lawmakers, which it said "did a deep disservice to the American people by further politicizing U.S. policy towards Afghanistan instead of focusing on bipartisan solutions."
Kyrgyzstan's foreign minister said on September 6 that the country had taken the Taliban off of its terrorist list "to secure regional stability and further develop the ongoing dialogue." A day earlier, the Taliban-led Afghan government's Foreign Ministry expressed thanks to Bishkek for removing the group from its terrorist list. The Kyrgyz Prosecutor-General's Office earlier this week issued a list of 20 groups labeled as terrorist organizations. It did not include the Taliban. In early June, Kazakhstan said it removed the Taliban from its terrorist list. The Taliban regained control over Afghanistan in August 2021 after the withdrawal of U.S. troops from the country.To read the original story by RFE/RL's Kyrgyz Service, clickhere.
Welcome to The Azadi Briefing, an RFE/RL newsletter that unpacks the key issues in Afghanistan. To subscribe,click here.
I'm Abubakar Siddique, a senior correspondent at RFE/RL's Radio Azadi. Here's what I've been tracking and what I'm keeping an eye on in the days ahead.
The Taliban's spiritual leader, Mullah Haibatullah Akhundzada, appears to have made a rare trip outside his stronghold in southern Afghanistan.
The reclusive leader seldom leaves the southern city of Kandahar, which is known as the birthplace of the Taliban and has become the de facto capital under the militant group’s rule.
But this week, the Taliban said Akhundzada travelled to northern Afghanistan in what is believed to be his first trip to the region since the group’s takeover in 2021.
Videos uploaded by the Taliban on social mediashoweda long convoy of armored cars traveling to cities and towns in the provinces of Badghis, Faryab, Jowzjan, Balkh, and Samangan.
Akhundzada was not seen in any of the videos or photos released by the Taliban. In its press statements, the Taliban said he met local officials and called on them toenforcea new draconian morality law.
Adopted on August 21, the widely condemned law imposes severe restrictions on the appearances and movements of women and men.
Why It's Important:Akhundzada, a hard-line cleric, is believed to only meet a small cadre of Taliban officials and avoids public appearances. He has rarely met foreign diplomats or dignitaries visiting Afghanistan. The Taliban chief also avoids being photographed or filmed.
Sami Yousafzai, a veteran Afghan journalist and commentator,saidAkhundzada’s trip to northern Afghanistan was aimed at projecting power and confidence.
As the Taliban’s “Amir ul-Momineen," or leader of the faithful, Akhundzada has the final say on all important matters.
Akhundzada’s extremist policies, many of them reminiscent of those under the Taliban’s brutal regime in the 1990s, has made the militant group an international pariah.
What's Next:It’s unclear whether Akhundzada will play a more active and visible role, or if his recent trip was a one-off.
But what is clear is that he has consolidated power and empowered extremist clerics within the Taliban, despite growing internal opposition to his policies.
Afghan migrants and refugees have complained that they are being detained and harassed in neighboring Pakistan.
Police detained a group of Afghans in a neighborhood in the capital, Islamabad, on September 4.
"We were scared and surprised," Sabira, an Afghan woman, told RFE/RL'sRadio Azadi.
She said police questioned several Afghan families visiting a park in Islamabad's B-17 neighborhood.
Why It's Important:The detentions appear to suggest the Pakistani authorities could launch a new crackdown on Afghans.
Last year, Islamabad expelled more than 500,000 Afghans as part of its campaign to deport undocumented migrants from the country.
Earlier this year, Pakistan suspended the planned expulsion of more Afghans amid mounting international pressure.
That's all from me for now.
Don't forget to send me any questions, comments, or tips that you have. You can always reach us atazadi.english@rferl.org
Until next time,
Abubakar Siddique
If you enjoyed this briefing and don't want to miss the next edition,subscribe here. It will be sent to your inbox every Friday.
The Islamic State (IS) extremist group claimed responsibility on September 3 for an attack in the Afghan capital a day earlier that killed at least six people and injured 13 more. The attack is believed to have been targeting the Taliban-led government's prosecution offices. VOA's Pashto service and the AFP news agency quoted the IS group's Amaq media wing as claiming IS was behind what it said was a suicide attack once "prosecutor's employees were leaving their shifts." Some witnesses claimed a much higher death toll, and the Amaq report claimed "more than 45" had been killed or wounded. The Sunni-led Islamic State-Khorasan (IS-K) branch has carried out numerous attacks since the Taliban seized power in August 2021, often targeting Taliban officials, foreign nationals, and the Shi'ite Hazara community.
At least six people were killed and 13 injured in a blast in the Afghan capital, Kabul, on September 2, representatives of the de facto Taliban rulers said. Witnesses said the incident took place near the Attorney General's Office in the capital, with some residents telling RFE/RL's Radio Adazi that at least 15 people had been killed. Police officials declared it a "suicide attack," but details remain scarce. Residents near the emergency hospital in the Shahr-e Naw neighborhood told Radio Azadi they saw bodies and injured being taken by ambulance to the hospital. No group immediately claimed responsibility, but the Sunni-led Islamic State-Khorasan (IS-K) branch has carried out numerous attacks since the Taliban seized power in August 2021, often targeting Taliban officials, foreign nationals, and the Shi'ite Hazara community.To read the original story by RFE/RL’s Radio Azadi, clickhere.
Richard Bennett, the UN's special rapporteur on human rights in Afghanistan,sayshe has arrived in Qatar to meet with "diverse groups" of Afghan men and women, along with government representatives, on the situation in Afghanistan. The country's de facto Taliban rulersbarred Bennettfrom entering Afghanistan late last month, accusing him of "spreading propaganda." Since being appointed to the UN post in May 2022, Bennett has made several trips to Afghanistan and has accused the Taliban of violating human rights, especially in regard to the rights of girls and women.To read the original story by RFE/RL's Radio Azadi, clickhere.
The United Nations said it will continue to engage with all partiesin Afghanistan, including the Taliban, even after the hard-line rulers issued a “distressing” new morality law that severely bans women’s activities in public.
“We have been very vocal on the decision to further make women’s presence almost disappear in Afghanistan,” UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric told a news conference in New York on August 31.
“In terms of the contacts with the de facto authorities...we will continue to engage with all stakeholders in Afghanistan, including the Taliban.”
"We have always done so following our mandate. And I would say impartially and in good faith, always upholding the norms of the UN, pushing the messages of human rights and equality. And we will continue our work as mandated by the Security Council,” he added.
Roza Otunbayeva, the head of the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA), said on August 25 that the laws presented a “distressing vision” for Afghanistan’s future.
The laws expand the "already intolerable restrictions” on the rights of women and girls -- with “even the sound of a female voice” in public deemed a violation of morality laws.
The Taliban has attempted to police the public appearances and behavior of millions of Afghans, especially women, since seizing power in 2021.
Enforcement of the extremist group’s rules governing morality, including its strict Islamic dress code and gender segregation in society, was sporadic and uneven across the country.
But on August 21, the hard-line Islamist group formally codified into law its long set of draconian restrictions, triggering fear among Afghans of stricter enforcement.
The Law on the Propagation of Virtue and Prevention of Vice imposes severe restrictions on the appearances, behavior, and movement of women. The law also enforces constraints on men.
Taliban leaders say the laws are based on their interpretation of Shari'a law.
Several leading Afghan clerics have come out publicly to oppose the latest restrictions.
Mawlawi Abdul Sami Ghaznavi, said it was the Taliban’s "responsibility to create favorable conditions for women's education."
On August 27, theUN Human Commission on Human Rightsdemanded that the "repressive law be immediately repealed."
"This is utterly intolerable," it said.
"We call on the de facto authorities to immediately repeal this legislation, which is in clear violation of Afghanistan’s obligations under international human rights law."
Welcome to The Azadi Briefing, an RFE/RL newsletter that unpacks the key issues in Afghanistan. To subscribe,click here.
I'm Abubakar Siddique, a senior correspondent at RFE/RL's Radio Azadi. Here's what I've been tracking and what I'm keeping an eye on in the days ahead.
The Taliban's hard-line higher education minister has defended the extremist group's severe restrictions on female education.The Islamist group has barred girls from attending school past the sixth grade and banned women from going to university.In a press conference on August 24, Nida Mohammad Nadim said the Taliban's widely condemned restrictions were "not in conflict with Islam."He added that questioning the Taliban's policies on education were also banned.But that has not stopped senior Afghan clerics from criticizing Nadim and the Taliban's controversial education policies.Mawlana Sibghatullah Mawlawizada, one of the most senior clerics in the western city of Herat, on August 25 challenged Nadim to a public debate."I urge him to discuss the [religious] legality of [of the ban on] female education in the presence of national and international media," Mawlawizada said in avideomessage.Nadim has not publicly responded to Mawlawizada.Another leading Afghan cleric, Mawlawi Abdul Sami Ghaznavi, also challenged the Taliban. Hesaidit was the group's "responsibility to create favorable conditions for women's education."
Why It's Important:A growing number of Afghan religious scholars are openly challenging the Taliban's restrictions on female education.Even some Afghan clerics working for the Taliban-led government have publicly opposed the bans. They have said there is no justification for banning female education under Islam.Islamic scholars across the world have condemned the Taliban's restrictions. Afghanistan is the only country in the Muslim world where teenage girls and women are banned from receiving an education.
What's Next:Despite domestic and international criticism and pressure, the Taliban is unlikely to reverse its education bans.Since seizing power in 2021, the Taliban's extremist policies have made its unrecognized government an international pariah.
Protesters in northwestern Pakistan have blocked Torkham, a key border crossing with Afghanistan. The move has concerned Afghan traders who fear a big financial hit.Khan Jan Alakozai, a senior official of the Afghanistan-Pakistan Joint Chamber of Commerce, said thousands of trucks transporting fresh Afghan fruits and vegetables have been stranded at the crossing."If the border is not opened, some traders will lose their businesses altogether while others will incur mourning custom duties," he told RFE/RL'sRadio Azadion August 29.Since August 22, members of a Pashtun tribe displaced by a Pakistani military operation have blocked the crossing in protest.
Why It's Important: The frequent closures of Torkham and Chaman, another key crossing, have disrupted trade between the two neighbors.In recent years, Islamabad has closed the border crossings after clashes between Pakistani and Taliban border guards.Pakistan has also shuttered the border to pressure the Afghan Taliban to expel the Tehrik-e Taliban Pakistan extremist group, which is believed to be based in Afghanistan.
That's all from me for now.
Don't forget to send me any questions, comments, or tips that you have. You can always reach us atazadi.english@rferl.org
Until next time,
Abubakar Siddique
If you enjoyed this briefing and don't want to miss the next edition,subscribe here. It will be sent to your inbox every Friday.
Load more

RFE/RL has been declared an "undesirable organization" by the Russian government.
If you are in Russia or the Russia-controlled parts of Ukraine and hold a Russian passport or are a stateless person residing permanently in Russia or the Russia-controlled parts of Ukraine, please note that you could face fines or imprisonment for sharing, liking, commenting on, or saving our content, or for contacting us.
To find out more,click here.
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty © 2024 RFE/RL, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Title: Ghani confirms release of Haqqani Network prisoners
Kabul, Nov 12 :Afghan President Ashraf Ghani on Tuesday confirmed that three leaders of the Haqqani Network were "conditionally" freed from prison and would be swapped for the release of a US and an Australian professor who were abducted by the terror group here in August 2016.
Ghani named the prisoners as Anas Haqqani, Haji Mali Khan and Hafiz Rashid, Xinhua news agency.
"The decision was taken in close consultation with our international partners, including the US, to pave the ground for direct talks with theTalibanand to find negotiated settlement for Afghanistan's crisis," Ghani said in an address broadcast live in state-run RTA TV.
Ghani did not give details where and when the swap of the prisoners will take place, saying the exchange would be on conditions for safe release of the professors.
The two lecturers worked in the American University of Afghanistan.
Anas Haqqani is the son of the late Jalaluddin Haqqani, former leader of the Haqqani Network.
As a Taliban-linked militant group, the Haqqani Network is mostly operating in eastern provinces and capital Kabul and responsible for many high-profile attacks on security forces.
The network was designated as a terrorist group by the US in 2012.