Title: Taliban car bomb kills at least 12 in attack on Afghan security compound | World News - The Indian Express
Taliban Islamist fighters killed at least eight Afghan security force members and four civilians, as well as wounding more than 50 civilians, by blowing up a car bomb in central Ghazni province on Sunday, government officials and the Taliban said. The Taliban claimed responsibility for detonating the bomb near the National Directorate of Security (NDS) compound in Ghazni city during Sunday morning’s rush hour. “Dozens of NDS officers were killed or wounded,” Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said in a statement.
Arif Noori, a provincial government spokesman in Ghazni, confirmed eight members of the NDS and four civilians died in the blast, with more than 50 civilians injured. “Many injured people were being rushed to the hospital,” he said.
It wasn’t immediately clear whether the attack was carried out by a suicide bomber.
The blast in a crowded area of Ghazni city was the latest in a wave of near-daily attacks by the Taliban, who now hold sway over about half of Afghanistan and continue to intensify attacks on Afghan forces despite increased efforts towards a peace agreement to end the 18-year war.
Sanjeev Kumar, a talented actor, had a passion for food and even rented a house to satisfy his love for non-vegetarian dishes. Fellow actors Shammi Kapoor, Shatrughan Sinha, and Randhir Kapoor would often join him for late-night feasts. Sachin Pilgaonkar revealed this in a recent interview, highlighting Sanjeev's love for food and his bond with his colleagues.



Title: 
            Afghan radio station shuts down after threats by suspected Taliban
          
US
Taliban commander objects to women working as presenters, officials at radio station
COMMENTS
Comments are moderated and generally will be posted if they are on-topic and not abusive.
For more information, please see ourComments FAQ
Ryan Murphy responds to Erik Menendez's criticism of Netflix's 'Monsters: The Lyle and Erik Menendez Story’
This news follows reports that Kim is becoming increasingly worried about Kanye’s recent behavior.
Fans react as Meek Mill declares, 'I wanna hire an investigative team,' offering $100K to clear his name in Diddy case
TikToker Jacob Savage faces controversy after alleged explicit video of him cheating with ex Rachel Weaver goes viral.
Trump vows to call Xi Jinping to enforce trade deal if re-elected
Zelensky favours Democrats in 2024 US election: Donald Trump
Images show massive crater from Russia's apparently failed ICBM test
Idaho man charged with threatening to kill Trump in calls to Mar-a-Lago
Outrage after woman sexually assaulted at police station in India's Odisha
Donald Trump surprises Pennsylvania mom with grocery gift of $100
Increasing Commercial Confidence through Meditation
Future of higher education
TAPI progression and prospect of Pakistan-Iran gas pipeline
Understanding constitutional package: a logical approach
Pakistan-BD proximity and scepticism in India
Bharat and the idea of India
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
redistributed or derived from. Unless otherwise stated, all content is
copyrighted © 2024 The Express Tribune.

Title: If Taliban returns | The Indian Express
The US-Taliban talks have bogged down because the latter is not willing to negotiate with the Ashraf Ghani government in Kabul. Washington is keen to leave Afghanistan and save the $45 billion it spends there annually but is troubled over what the Taliban will do to Afghanistan after it leaves. The Taliban has refused to talk to the US-supported Ghani government because they already control half of Afghanistan and fear internal splits if they play ball and negotiate.
Pakistan had tried to manipulate the Taliban over policy and suffered damage at the hands of the Pakistani Taliban. It fears the return of the Taliban government after the Americans leave and wants to keep its options open. Pakistani Taliban, operating from inside Afghanistan, will be strengthened after the Americans leave; and the Ghani government is unable to control the situation. There was a time when Pakistan was hosting around four million Afghan refugees, most of whom returned home in 2002 leaving 1.3 million “registered” ones still stuck in Pakistan while the “unregistered” ones remain outside this count. Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province has 81 per cent of them, Punjab 10 per cent, Balochistan seven per cent and Sindh one per cent.
What is the plight of these “registered” Afghan refugees? According to a recently published report, “nearly half this number is believed to be children under the age of 14, with another 20 per cent reportedly between 15 and 24 years old”. In 2015, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees had reported that “a staggering 80 per cent of Afghan children in Pakistan were out of school”. Add to this number, the “44 per cent of all children in Pakistan that don’t receive any education”. Pakistan’s future will be decided by these children who are destined to come of age without any education. Add to this number the Afghan children who will grow up not feeling a part of Pakistan.
An article by Mahwish Qayyum in Newsweek Pakistan has lifted the curtain slightly on what is in store. She reports that one Saeed Agha, a refugee himself, had established a low-cost school consisting of six rooms and one bathroom at an informal settlement in Islamabad’s I-12 sector with a donation of Rs 1,70,000. (This Islamabad sector has 3,424 refugees, including 2,136 children.) The primary school had enrolled 400 local children, but it was forced to shut down after three months because Agha could not come up with more money.
What will over a million Afghan refugees do in Pakistan? First, there is the prospect of a couple of million more refugees coming to Pakistan if there is no solution to the crisis in Afghanistan where America is not winning and is keen to leave; and the Taliban controls half of the country. The Taliban doesn’t like modern “un-Islamic” education and is opposed to girls getting any education at all. Even today it is able to target and kill “progressive” women who venture out of their homes to take up jobs to sustain their starving, often “fatherless”, families. Pakistani Taliban, aligned with Uzbek warriors and sworn to the same “piety” as the Afghan Taliban, had destroyed all girls’ schools in the valley of Swat in 2012 and shot Pakistan’s Nobel Laureate Malala Yusufzai in the head because she wouldn’t stop going to school.
The mood is no different in Afghanistan. The Taliban simply don’t want modern education and prefer the madrassa that they see as the future inspiration of Afghanistan. They destroy schools wherever they see them: The number of attacks on schools tripled, according to UNICEF, rising from 68 in 2017 to 192 in 2018. The war has closed down 1,000 schools, depriving some 5,00,000 children of their right to learning. Pakistan has its own 32,000 madrassas doing far better than the state-run schools where conditions are hostile to learning because of ramshackle buildings and savagely illiterate teachers.
Afghanistan, like Somalia, is hardly a “centralised” state. Kabul didn’t ever control most of the territory where Uzbek and Tajik warlords ruled with or without the government’s consent. Pakistan, unfortunately, didn’t learn from the chaos of Afghanistan and kept itself “uncentralised” without proper writ of the state in almost 60 per cent of its territory, somewhat in imitation of Afghanistan. The Tribal Areas in the north and northwest, almost the whole of Balochistan and interior Sindh — with some Sindhi feudal influence rubbing off on South Punjab — remained without proper policing. The next post-US withdrawal war in Afghanistan is bound to send more refugees into Pakistan that is now fencing the 1,640 mile-long Durand Line border, which the Taliban doesn’t recognise. It has 235 “crossing points”, where infiltration goes on.
Ideology and a collapsing economy don’t let Pakistan look after its children the way it should. What a child needs growing up anywhere is good education. Pakistan has neither the money nor the thinking to provide it. In fact, due to its ideological orientation, even if it succeeds in providing education to its children, it is going to be close to what the madrassas are already doing free of cost.
The writer is consulting editor, Newsweek Pakistan
How Marxist Anura Kumara Dissanayake won Sri Lanka’s PresidencySubscriber Only
Sound of guns is normal: No rest for village onSubscriber Only
Why AAP chose Atishi: How it gives party chance toSubscriber Only
PM Modi in US: What is the Quad grouping?
UPSC Key | Takeaways of Quad Summit, Joint Commanders’ Conference,Subscriber Only
17 years on, kidnap victim gives closing argument in ownSubscriber Only
If we still have a Kashmir problem, it’s because ofSubscriber Only
100 years of the discovery of the Indus CivilisationSubscriber Only
India’s data centre ambitions will have to go through Malaysia,Subscriber Only
Sanjeev Kumar, a talented actor, had a passion for food and even rented a house to satisfy his love for non-vegetarian dishes. Fellow actors Shammi Kapoor, Shatrughan Sinha, and Randhir Kapoor would often join him for late-night feasts. Sachin Pilgaonkar revealed this in a recent interview, highlighting Sanjeev's love for food and his bond with his colleagues.



Title: Afghan University Teacher, Students Among IS Operatives Arrested in Kabul
Print
Afghan authorities say they have arrested four Islamic State (IS) operatives, including a university teacher, during a counterterrorism raid in Kabul.
The arrests come amid recent reports the Middle Eastern terrorist group has grown into a major security challenge for U.S.-backed Afghan forces struggling to contain the Taliban insurgency.
Afghanistan's spy agency, National Directorate of Security (NDS), while announcing the arrests, said in a statement the suspects were involved in recruiting fighters for IS and organizing terrorist attacks in and around the capital city.
It identified one of the detainees as a Kabul University lecturer, Mubashir Muslimyar, while the rest as graduates of the same institution. The men are said to have told investigators they were working closely with IS operatives in eastern Nangarhar province and many educated young Afghans were joining their ranks.
This is not the first time that the NDS has arrested suspected IS operatives from Kabul University. Weeks back, another lecturer was also taken into custody on the same charges.
IS has not commented on the arrests.
The Afghan branch of IS operates under the name of Khorasan Province (ISKP). It is estimated to have about 2,000 fighters in the country.
Locally known as Daesh, the terrorist outfit has carried out major attacks in Kabul and Nangarhar, where it is believed to have set up strong bases in several districts. The militants are also active in parts of the adjoining eastern Kunar province.
Former Afghan national security advisrr, Haneef Atmar, told VOA militants linked to IS also are present in northeastern Badakhshan and northern provinces of Jowzjan and Faryab.
“They are a threat and they are not just a threat to Afghanistan they are a threat to the entire region and global security. So, it is not an exaggeration, it’s a sad reality and we have to deal with it,” said Atmar, who is also a key candidate in Afghanistan's presidential election due in September.
Atmar noted that "thousands of foreign fighters" associated with regional and global terrorist groups are operating in Afghanistan. They include Daesh, al-Qaida, Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) and East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM), which is blamed for attacks in China, he said.
The U.S. commander of American and NATO forces in Afghanistan, General Austin Miller, in a recent interview described IS as “a problem to all of us” and cautioned it could stage and plan attacks in the West.
“I think they're a very dangerous group internal to Afghanistan, certainly to the region as well as Europe and the United States of America,” Miller told RFE/RL's Radio Free Afghanistan.
U.S. counterterrorism forces, in coordination with Afghan partners, routinely conduct operations against ISKP bases in the country, killing hundreds of militants. The Taliban also has engaged in deadly clashes with the ultra-radical IS militants. But despite those pressures, IS continues to operate in Afghanistan.
Atmar, who is a presidential candidate, praised ongoing U.S.-led efforts to strike a peace deal with the Taliban, saying such an eventuality will enable his country to effectively fight terrorism.
“While it is absolutely necessary to make peace between the Taliban and the government of Afghanistan, it is equally important to address the problem of foreign fighters. If we resolve the first problem, (peace between) the Taliban and the government of Afghanistan, then it will be a lot more feasible to solve the second problem.”



Title: Afghan University Teacher, Students Among IS Operatives Arrested in Kabul
By Ayaz Gul July 8, 2019
Afghan authorities say they have arrested four Islamic State (IS) operatives, including a university teacher, during a counterterrorism raid in Kabul.
The arrests come amid recent reports the Middle Eastern terrorist group has grown into a major security challenge for U.S.-backed Afghan forces struggling to contain the Taliban insurgency.
Afghanistan's spy agency, National Directorate of Security (NDS), while announcing the arrests, said in a statement the suspects were involved in recruiting fighters for IS and organizing terrorist attacks in and around the capital city.
It identified one of the detainees as a Kabul University lecturer, Mubashir Muslimyar, while the rest as graduates of the same institution. The men are said to have told investigators they were working closely with IS operatives in eastern Nangarhar province and many educated young Afghans were joining their ranks.
This is not the first time that the NDS has arrested suspected IS operatives from Kabul University. Weeks back, another lecturer was also taken into custody on the same charges.
IS has not commented on the arrests.
The Afghan branch of IS operates under the name of Khorasan Province (ISKP). It is estimated to have about 2,000 fighters in the country.
Locally known as Daesh, the terrorist outfit has carried out major attacks in Kabul and Nangarhar, where it is believed to have set up strong bases in several districts. The militants are also active in parts of the adjoining eastern Kunar province.
Former Afghan national security advisrr, Haneef Atmar, told VOA militants linked to IS also are present in northeastern Badakhshan and northern provinces of Jowzjan and Faryab.
"They are a threat and they are not just a threat to Afghanistan they are a threat to the entire region and global security. So, it is not an exaggeration, it's a sad reality and we have to deal with it," said Atmar, who is also a key candidate in Afghanistan's presidential election due in September.
Atmar noted that "thousands of foreign fighters" associated with regional and global terrorist groups are operating in Afghanistan. They include Daesh, al-Qaida, Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) and East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM), which is blamed for attacks in China, he said.
The U.S. commander of American and NATO forces in Afghanistan, General Austin Miller, in a recent interview described IS as "a problem to all of us" and cautioned it could stage and plan attacks in the West.
"I think they're a very dangerous group internal to Afghanistan, certainly to the region as well as Europe and the United States of America," Miller told RFE/RL's Radio Free Afghanistan.
U.S. counterterrorism forces, in coordination with Afghan partners, routinely conduct operations against ISKP bases in the country, killing hundreds of militants. The Taliban also has engaged in deadly clashes with the ultra-radical IS militants. But despite those pressures, IS continues to operate in Afghanistan.
Atmar, who is a presidential candidate, praised ongoing U.S.-led efforts to strike a peace deal with the Taliban, saying such an eventuality will enable his country to effectively fight terrorism.
"While it is absolutely necessary to make peace between the Taliban and the government of Afghanistan, it is equally important to address the problem of foreign fighters. If we resolve the first problem, (peace between) the Taliban and the government of Afghanistan, then it will be a lot more feasible to solve the second problem."



Title: Let’s Talk Terrorism (Again) – In  Saner  Thought
Enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
Email Address:
Sign me up!

A subject that gets little attention these days is that of terrorism…..the media is too consumed with the 2020 elections and whatever silly utterances come from the mouth of our Dear Supreme Leader……
IST would like to keep a finger on the pulse of our potential threats…..most namely AQ and ISIS…..
ISIS has been defeated according to the words of Trump…..sadly that is BS….ISIS doing what AQ did after Afghanistan in 2001….re-group and re-direct energies…..
The Islamic State of Iraq and Al-Sham (ISIS) is not defeated despite the loss of the territory it claimed as its so-called ‘Caliphate’ in Iraq and Syria. It is stronger today than its predecessor Al Qaeda in Iraq (AQI) was in 2011, when the U.S. withdrew from Iraq. AQI had around 700-1000 fighters then.  ISIS had as many as 30,000 fighters in Iraq and Syria in August 2018 according to a Defense Intelligence Agency estimate. ISIS built from the small remnant left in 2011 an army large enough to recapture Fallujah, Mosul, and other cities in Iraq and dominate much of eastern Syria in only three years.  It will recover much faster and to a much more dangerous level from the far larger force it still has today.
[Download the full reporthere.]
http://www.understandingwar.org/report/isiss-second-comeback-assessing-next-isis-insurgency
ISIS has eyes on South Asia……
the Islamic State (IS)formally announced the creation ofwilayah(provinces) in Pakistan and India. The announcement was made by the Islamic State’s media front, the Amaq News Agency.
The two provinces have been carved out of the erstwhile Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP), which encompassed the Af-Pak border region. ISKP,which was founded in January 2015, months after IS had announced its so called caliphate in the Iraq and Levant, spearheaded all activity in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and was the source of IS-affiliated militant activity in India as well.
The two IS provinces in India and Pakistan were announced in the immediate aftermath of the group claiming responsibility forgun attacks on security forcesin Shopian district of Indian-administered Kashmir. During the same week, IS claimed a similar gun attack inMastungdistrict of Pakistan’s Balochistan province.
https://thediplomat.com/2019/06/islamic-state-comes-for-south-asia/
Keep in mind that old saying…”You can kill the messanger but not the message”…..
“Lego Ergo Scribo”
Learn Stuff!

Very true. It is impossible to kill an idea. History has taught us that.Best wishes, Pete.
And yet nothing has been learned and the beat drums on….and on  chuq

Δ
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.Learn how your comment data is processed.

Title: UN: Nearly 4,000 Afghans killed and wounded in first half of 2019 | News | Al Jazeera
Civilians are being killed and wounded at a ‘shocking and unacceptable’ rate despite push to end Afghan war, says UN.
At least 3,812 civilians have been killed or wounded in Afghanistan’s war in the first half of 2019, theUnited Nationssaid, noting a big increase in the number of casualties caused by government and NATO-led troops.
TheUN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) called the toll “shocking andunacceptable” on Tuesday, and urged parties to Afghanistan’s 18-year war to heed ademandfrom Afghan delegates at a recent peace conference in Doha, the capital city of Qatar, to reduce civilian casualties to zero




The UNAMAreportsaid 1,366 civilians were killed and another 2,446 wounded in the six months to June 30.
In that period, theTalibanand other armed groups caused the majority of civilian casualties, but Afghan and NATO-led forces were responsible for more civilian killings, it said.
The pro-government forces killed 717 civilians and wounded 680, representing a 31 percent increase from the corresponding period in 2018.
Taliban and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISILor ISIS) fighters killed 531 Afghans and wounded 1,437.
UNAMA said it also documented 985 civilian casualties from armed group attacks that deliberately targeted civilians, including government officials, tribal elders, aid workers, and religious scholars.
Meanwhile, at least 144 women and 327 children were killed and more than 1,000 wounded in attacks across the country.
“Everyone heard the message loud and clear from Afghan delegates in the Doha talks – ‘reduce civilian casualties to zero!’,” said Tadamichi Yamamoto, the head of UNAMA. “We urge all parties to heed this imperative, to answer the call of Afghans for immediate steps to be taken to reduce the terrible harm being inflicted.”
Latest UN update: Anti-Govt elements (Taliban, ISKP & other) responsible for 52% civilian casualties in first half 2019. Pro-Govt forces (Afghan security, international military & others) responsible for 37%.#ZeroCivilianCasualtiesNow#AfghanistanRead:https://t.co/OWoVckeDbTpic.twitter.com/pqiXmmJhiS
— UNAMA News (@UNAMAnews)July 30, 2019

Colonel Sonny Leggett, a spokesman for US forces in Afghanistan, rejected the methods and findings used by UNAMA, saying the collection of evidence by US forces was “more thorough, evidentiary and accurate”.
Leggett, however, did not give anyUnited Statesmilitary figures for civilian casualties but said US forces worked closely with Afghan security forces to prevent them.
“We follow the highest standards of accuracy and accountability and always work to avoid harm to civilian non-combatants,” Leggett said.
The US formally ended its combat mission in Afghanistan in 2014 but still provides extensive air and other support to local forces battling both groups.
The US is trying to negotiate a deal under which foreign forces would pull out in return for security guarantees by the Taliban, including a pledge that the country will not become a safe haven for terror groups.
The Taliban controls or contests half the country, more than at any time since being overthrown by US-led Afghan forces in late 2001, but they have rejected calls for a ceasefire until all foreign forces leave Afghanistan.
The Afghan government and the Taliban were not immediately available to comment on the UN report.









Follow Al Jazeera English:

Title: Over 1,000 Afghan civilians killed in first half of 2019: UN - Times of Oman
Kabul:The conflict in Afghanistan continues to have a devastating impact on civilians, with the latest UN update released today documenting 3,812 civilian casualties (1,366 deaths and 2,446 injured) in the first half of 2019.While the number of civilians killed and injured is 27 per cent down from the same period in 2018 –the year that saw record high numbers of recorded civilian casualties– the UN noted with concern disturbing patterns such as the 27 per cent increase in civilian deaths in the second quarter of 2019 compared with the first.The UN welcomed the reduction in civilian casualties in the 1 January-30 June 2019 period, but continues to regard the level of harm done to civilians as shocking and unacceptable.“Everyone heard the message loud and clear from Afghan delegates in the Doha talks – ‘reduce civilian casualties to zero!’” said Tadamichi Yamamoto, the Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Afghanistan. “We urge all parties to heed this imperative, to answer the call of Afghans for immediate steps to be taken to reduce the terrible harm being inflicted,” added Yamamoto, who is also head of the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA).The UN supports the demand for all parties to reduce civilian casualties to zero, made in the joint declaration by Afghan participants from the 7-8 July 2019 Intra-Afghan Dialogue held in Doha.Anti-Government Elements (AGEs) continued to cause the majority of civilian casualties. However, civilian deaths attributed to Pro-Government Forces (PGFs) exceeded those caused by AGEs for the second quarter in succession.Ground engagements remained the leading cause of civilian casualties, causing one-third of the overall total, albeit a 16 per cent decrease compared to the first half of 2018. The use of improvised explosive devices (IEDs), mainly in non-suicide attacks, was the second leading cause, representing 28 per cent of the total. Civilian casualties from aerial operations amounted to 14 per cent.UNAMA attributed 52 per cent of all civilian casualties to AGEs, with 38 per cent attributed to Taliban, 11 per cent to Daesh/Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), and 3 per cent to unidentified AGEs.Civilian casualties attributed to AGEs decreased by 43 per cent during the first half of 2019 as compared to 2018. This was mainly due to a reduction in civilian casualties from suicide IEDs. Civilian casualties attributed to PGFs increased by 31 per cent, mostly caused by an increase of aerial and search operations.From 1 January to 30 June 2019, AGEs caused 1,968 civilian casualties (531 deaths and 1,437 injured). There was a sharp drop in civilian casualties from suicide and complex attacks, particularly by Daesh/ISKP.UNAMA documented 985 civilian casualties (306 deaths and 679 injured) from AGE attacks that deliberately targeted civilians, including government officials, tribal elders, aid workers, religious scholars, mullahs and places of worship and culture. UNAMA reiterates that civilians not directly participating in hostilities, including civilian government workers, and civilian objects may never be the target of attack. UNAMA urges AGEs to apply a definition of civilian and civilian object that accords with international humanitarian law.During the first six months of 2019, UNAMA attributed 1,397 civilian casualties (717 deaths and 680 injured) to Pro-Government Forces, a 31 per cent increase from the corresponding period in 2018. PGFs caused 37 per cent of all civilian casualties in the first half of 2019 (18 per cent by Afghan national security forces, 12 per cent by International Military Forces, 2 per cent by Pro-Government armed groups and the remainder to undetermined or multiple PGFs).Aerial operations caused 519 civilian casualties (363 deaths and 156 injured), 150 of which were child casualties (89 deaths and 61 injured). This represents a 39 per cent increase in overall civilian casualties from this tactic. While the number of injured decreased, the number of civilians killed more than doubled, highlighting the lethal character of this tactic. UNAMA continues to express concern about the rising level of civilian harm as a result of aerial operations, particularly those conducted in support of Afghan forces on the ground and strikes on civilian structures.UNAMA attributed 83 per cent of the civilian casualties resulting from aerial operations to International Military Forces, nine per cent to the Afghan Air Force, and the remaining eight per cent to undetermined PGFs.Women continue to be disproportionately impacted by the armed conflict in Afghanistan. Up to 30 June 2019, the conflict caused 430 women casualties (144 deaths and 286 injured), a decrease of 22 per cent compared to the same period in 2018.Child casualties represented almost one-third of the overall total of civilian casualties, with 327 deaths and 880 injured. Children continue to comprise the vast majority –84 per cent– of all civilian casualties from explosive remnants of war.“Parties to the conflict may give differing explanations for recent trends, each designed to justify their own military tactics,” said Richard Bennett, UNAMA’s Human Rights Chief. “The fact remains that only a determined effort to avoid civilian harm, not just by abiding by international humanitarian law but also by reducing the intensity of the fighting, will decrease the suffering of civilian Afghans.”
While the number of civilians killed and injured is 27 per cent down from the same period in 2018 –the year that saw record high numbers of recorded civilian casualties– the UN noted with concern disturbing patterns such as the 27 per cent increase in civilian deaths in the second quarter of 2019 compared with the first.The UN welcomed the reduction in civilian casualties in the 1 January-30 June 2019 period, but continues to regard the level of harm done to civilians as shocking and unacceptable.“Everyone heard the message loud and clear from Afghan delegates in the Doha talks – ‘reduce civilian casualties to zero!’” said Tadamichi Yamamoto, the Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Afghanistan. “We urge all parties to heed this imperative, to answer the call of Afghans for immediate steps to be taken to reduce the terrible harm being inflicted,” added Yamamoto, who is also head of the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA).The UN supports the demand for all parties to reduce civilian casualties to zero, made in the joint declaration by Afghan participants from the 7-8 July 2019 Intra-Afghan Dialogue held in Doha.Anti-Government Elements (AGEs) continued to cause the majority of civilian casualties. However, civilian deaths attributed to Pro-Government Forces (PGFs) exceeded those caused by AGEs for the second quarter in succession.Ground engagements remained the leading cause of civilian casualties, causing one-third of the overall total, albeit a 16 per cent decrease compared to the first half of 2018. The use of improvised explosive devices (IEDs), mainly in non-suicide attacks, was the second leading cause, representing 28 per cent of the total. Civilian casualties from aerial operations amounted to 14 per cent.UNAMA attributed 52 per cent of all civilian casualties to AGEs, with 38 per cent attributed to Taliban, 11 per cent to Daesh/Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), and 3 per cent to unidentified AGEs.Civilian casualties attributed to AGEs decreased by 43 per cent during the first half of 2019 as compared to 2018. This was mainly due to a reduction in civilian casualties from suicide IEDs. Civilian casualties attributed to PGFs increased by 31 per cent, mostly caused by an increase of aerial and search operations.From 1 January to 30 June 2019, AGEs caused 1,968 civilian casualties (531 deaths and 1,437 injured). There was a sharp drop in civilian casualties from suicide and complex attacks, particularly by Daesh/ISKP.UNAMA documented 985 civilian casualties (306 deaths and 679 injured) from AGE attacks that deliberately targeted civilians, including government officials, tribal elders, aid workers, religious scholars, mullahs and places of worship and culture. UNAMA reiterates that civilians not directly participating in hostilities, including civilian government workers, and civilian objects may never be the target of attack. UNAMA urges AGEs to apply a definition of civilian and civilian object that accords with international humanitarian law.During the first six months of 2019, UNAMA attributed 1,397 civilian casualties (717 deaths and 680 injured) to Pro-Government Forces, a 31 per cent increase from the corresponding period in 2018. PGFs caused 37 per cent of all civilian casualties in the first half of 2019 (18 per cent by Afghan national security forces, 12 per cent by International Military Forces, 2 per cent by Pro-Government armed groups and the remainder to undetermined or multiple PGFs).Aerial operations caused 519 civilian casualties (363 deaths and 156 injured), 150 of which were child casualties (89 deaths and 61 injured). This represents a 39 per cent increase in overall civilian casualties from this tactic. While the number of injured decreased, the number of civilians killed more than doubled, highlighting the lethal character of this tactic. UNAMA continues to express concern about the rising level of civilian harm as a result of aerial operations, particularly those conducted in support of Afghan forces on the ground and strikes on civilian structures.UNAMA attributed 83 per cent of the civilian casualties resulting from aerial operations to International Military Forces, nine per cent to the Afghan Air Force, and the remaining eight per cent to undetermined PGFs.Women continue to be disproportionately impacted by the armed conflict in Afghanistan. Up to 30 June 2019, the conflict caused 430 women casualties (144 deaths and 286 injured), a decrease of 22 per cent compared to the same period in 2018.Child casualties represented almost one-third of the overall total of civilian casualties, with 327 deaths and 880 injured. Children continue to comprise the vast majority –84 per cent– of all civilian casualties from explosive remnants of war.“Parties to the conflict may give differing explanations for recent trends, each designed to justify their own military tactics,” said Richard Bennett, UNAMA’s Human Rights Chief. “The fact remains that only a determined effort to avoid civilian harm, not just by abiding by international humanitarian law but also by reducing the intensity of the fighting, will decrease the suffering of civilian Afghans.”
The UN welcomed the reduction in civilian casualties in the 1 January-30 June 2019 period, but continues to regard the level of harm done to civilians as shocking and unacceptable.“Everyone heard the message loud and clear from Afghan delegates in the Doha talks – ‘reduce civilian casualties to zero!’” said Tadamichi Yamamoto, the Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Afghanistan. “We urge all parties to heed this imperative, to answer the call of Afghans for immediate steps to be taken to reduce the terrible harm being inflicted,” added Yamamoto, who is also head of the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA).The UN supports the demand for all parties to reduce civilian casualties to zero, made in the joint declaration by Afghan participants from the 7-8 July 2019 Intra-Afghan Dialogue held in Doha.Anti-Government Elements (AGEs) continued to cause the majority of civilian casualties. However, civilian deaths attributed to Pro-Government Forces (PGFs) exceeded those caused by AGEs for the second quarter in succession.Ground engagements remained the leading cause of civilian casualties, causing one-third of the overall total, albeit a 16 per cent decrease compared to the first half of 2018. The use of improvised explosive devices (IEDs), mainly in non-suicide attacks, was the second leading cause, representing 28 per cent of the total. Civilian casualties from aerial operations amounted to 14 per cent.UNAMA attributed 52 per cent of all civilian casualties to AGEs, with 38 per cent attributed to Taliban, 11 per cent to Daesh/Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), and 3 per cent to unidentified AGEs.Civilian casualties attributed to AGEs decreased by 43 per cent during the first half of 2019 as compared to 2018. This was mainly due to a reduction in civilian casualties from suicide IEDs. Civilian casualties attributed to PGFs increased by 31 per cent, mostly caused by an increase of aerial and search operations.From 1 January to 30 June 2019, AGEs caused 1,968 civilian casualties (531 deaths and 1,437 injured). There was a sharp drop in civilian casualties from suicide and complex attacks, particularly by Daesh/ISKP.UNAMA documented 985 civilian casualties (306 deaths and 679 injured) from AGE attacks that deliberately targeted civilians, including government officials, tribal elders, aid workers, religious scholars, mullahs and places of worship and culture. UNAMA reiterates that civilians not directly participating in hostilities, including civilian government workers, and civilian objects may never be the target of attack. UNAMA urges AGEs to apply a definition of civilian and civilian object that accords with international humanitarian law.During the first six months of 2019, UNAMA attributed 1,397 civilian casualties (717 deaths and 680 injured) to Pro-Government Forces, a 31 per cent increase from the corresponding period in 2018. PGFs caused 37 per cent of all civilian casualties in the first half of 2019 (18 per cent by Afghan national security forces, 12 per cent by International Military Forces, 2 per cent by Pro-Government armed groups and the remainder to undetermined or multiple PGFs).Aerial operations caused 519 civilian casualties (363 deaths and 156 injured), 150 of which were child casualties (89 deaths and 61 injured). This represents a 39 per cent increase in overall civilian casualties from this tactic. While the number of injured decreased, the number of civilians killed more than doubled, highlighting the lethal character of this tactic. UNAMA continues to express concern about the rising level of civilian harm as a result of aerial operations, particularly those conducted in support of Afghan forces on the ground and strikes on civilian structures.UNAMA attributed 83 per cent of the civilian casualties resulting from aerial operations to International Military Forces, nine per cent to the Afghan Air Force, and the remaining eight per cent to undetermined PGFs.Women continue to be disproportionately impacted by the armed conflict in Afghanistan. Up to 30 June 2019, the conflict caused 430 women casualties (144 deaths and 286 injured), a decrease of 22 per cent compared to the same period in 2018.Child casualties represented almost one-third of the overall total of civilian casualties, with 327 deaths and 880 injured. Children continue to comprise the vast majority –84 per cent– of all civilian casualties from explosive remnants of war.“Parties to the conflict may give differing explanations for recent trends, each designed to justify their own military tactics,” said Richard Bennett, UNAMA’s Human Rights Chief. “The fact remains that only a determined effort to avoid civilian harm, not just by abiding by international humanitarian law but also by reducing the intensity of the fighting, will decrease the suffering of civilian Afghans.”
“Everyone heard the message loud and clear from Afghan delegates in the Doha talks – ‘reduce civilian casualties to zero!’” said Tadamichi Yamamoto, the Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Afghanistan. “We urge all parties to heed this imperative, to answer the call of Afghans for immediate steps to be taken to reduce the terrible harm being inflicted,” added Yamamoto, who is also head of the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA).The UN supports the demand for all parties to reduce civilian casualties to zero, made in the joint declaration by Afghan participants from the 7-8 July 2019 Intra-Afghan Dialogue held in Doha.Anti-Government Elements (AGEs) continued to cause the majority of civilian casualties. However, civilian deaths attributed to Pro-Government Forces (PGFs) exceeded those caused by AGEs for the second quarter in succession.Ground engagements remained the leading cause of civilian casualties, causing one-third of the overall total, albeit a 16 per cent decrease compared to the first half of 2018. The use of improvised explosive devices (IEDs), mainly in non-suicide attacks, was the second leading cause, representing 28 per cent of the total. Civilian casualties from aerial operations amounted to 14 per cent.UNAMA attributed 52 per cent of all civilian casualties to AGEs, with 38 per cent attributed to Taliban, 11 per cent to Daesh/Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), and 3 per cent to unidentified AGEs.Civilian casualties attributed to AGEs decreased by 43 per cent during the first half of 2019 as compared to 2018. This was mainly due to a reduction in civilian casualties from suicide IEDs. Civilian casualties attributed to PGFs increased by 31 per cent, mostly caused by an increase of aerial and search operations.From 1 January to 30 June 2019, AGEs caused 1,968 civilian casualties (531 deaths and 1,437 injured). There was a sharp drop in civilian casualties from suicide and complex attacks, particularly by Daesh/ISKP.UNAMA documented 985 civilian casualties (306 deaths and 679 injured) from AGE attacks that deliberately targeted civilians, including government officials, tribal elders, aid workers, religious scholars, mullahs and places of worship and culture. UNAMA reiterates that civilians not directly participating in hostilities, including civilian government workers, and civilian objects may never be the target of attack. UNAMA urges AGEs to apply a definition of civilian and civilian object that accords with international humanitarian law.During the first six months of 2019, UNAMA attributed 1,397 civilian casualties (717 deaths and 680 injured) to Pro-Government Forces, a 31 per cent increase from the corresponding period in 2018. PGFs caused 37 per cent of all civilian casualties in the first half of 2019 (18 per cent by Afghan national security forces, 12 per cent by International Military Forces, 2 per cent by Pro-Government armed groups and the remainder to undetermined or multiple PGFs).Aerial operations caused 519 civilian casualties (363 deaths and 156 injured), 150 of which were child casualties (89 deaths and 61 injured). This represents a 39 per cent increase in overall civilian casualties from this tactic. While the number of injured decreased, the number of civilians killed more than doubled, highlighting the lethal character of this tactic. UNAMA continues to express concern about the rising level of civilian harm as a result of aerial operations, particularly those conducted in support of Afghan forces on the ground and strikes on civilian structures.UNAMA attributed 83 per cent of the civilian casualties resulting from aerial operations to International Military Forces, nine per cent to the Afghan Air Force, and the remaining eight per cent to undetermined PGFs.Women continue to be disproportionately impacted by the armed conflict in Afghanistan. Up to 30 June 2019, the conflict caused 430 women casualties (144 deaths and 286 injured), a decrease of 22 per cent compared to the same period in 2018.Child casualties represented almost one-third of the overall total of civilian casualties, with 327 deaths and 880 injured. Children continue to comprise the vast majority –84 per cent– of all civilian casualties from explosive remnants of war.“Parties to the conflict may give differing explanations for recent trends, each designed to justify their own military tactics,” said Richard Bennett, UNAMA’s Human Rights Chief. “The fact remains that only a determined effort to avoid civilian harm, not just by abiding by international humanitarian law but also by reducing the intensity of the fighting, will decrease the suffering of civilian Afghans.”
The UN supports the demand for all parties to reduce civilian casualties to zero, made in the joint declaration by Afghan participants from the 7-8 July 2019 Intra-Afghan Dialogue held in Doha.Anti-Government Elements (AGEs) continued to cause the majority of civilian casualties. However, civilian deaths attributed to Pro-Government Forces (PGFs) exceeded those caused by AGEs for the second quarter in succession.Ground engagements remained the leading cause of civilian casualties, causing one-third of the overall total, albeit a 16 per cent decrease compared to the first half of 2018. The use of improvised explosive devices (IEDs), mainly in non-suicide attacks, was the second leading cause, representing 28 per cent of the total. Civilian casualties from aerial operations amounted to 14 per cent.UNAMA attributed 52 per cent of all civilian casualties to AGEs, with 38 per cent attributed to Taliban, 11 per cent to Daesh/Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), and 3 per cent to unidentified AGEs.Civilian casualties attributed to AGEs decreased by 43 per cent during the first half of 2019 as compared to 2018. This was mainly due to a reduction in civilian casualties from suicide IEDs. Civilian casualties attributed to PGFs increased by 31 per cent, mostly caused by an increase of aerial and search operations.From 1 January to 30 June 2019, AGEs caused 1,968 civilian casualties (531 deaths and 1,437 injured). There was a sharp drop in civilian casualties from suicide and complex attacks, particularly by Daesh/ISKP.UNAMA documented 985 civilian casualties (306 deaths and 679 injured) from AGE attacks that deliberately targeted civilians, including government officials, tribal elders, aid workers, religious scholars, mullahs and places of worship and culture. UNAMA reiterates that civilians not directly participating in hostilities, including civilian government workers, and civilian objects may never be the target of attack. UNAMA urges AGEs to apply a definition of civilian and civilian object that accords with international humanitarian law.During the first six months of 2019, UNAMA attributed 1,397 civilian casualties (717 deaths and 680 injured) to Pro-Government Forces, a 31 per cent increase from the corresponding period in 2018. PGFs caused 37 per cent of all civilian casualties in the first half of 2019 (18 per cent by Afghan national security forces, 12 per cent by International Military Forces, 2 per cent by Pro-Government armed groups and the remainder to undetermined or multiple PGFs).Aerial operations caused 519 civilian casualties (363 deaths and 156 injured), 150 of which were child casualties (89 deaths and 61 injured). This represents a 39 per cent increase in overall civilian casualties from this tactic. While the number of injured decreased, the number of civilians killed more than doubled, highlighting the lethal character of this tactic. UNAMA continues to express concern about the rising level of civilian harm as a result of aerial operations, particularly those conducted in support of Afghan forces on the ground and strikes on civilian structures.UNAMA attributed 83 per cent of the civilian casualties resulting from aerial operations to International Military Forces, nine per cent to the Afghan Air Force, and the remaining eight per cent to undetermined PGFs.Women continue to be disproportionately impacted by the armed conflict in Afghanistan. Up to 30 June 2019, the conflict caused 430 women casualties (144 deaths and 286 injured), a decrease of 22 per cent compared to the same period in 2018.Child casualties represented almost one-third of the overall total of civilian casualties, with 327 deaths and 880 injured. Children continue to comprise the vast majority –84 per cent– of all civilian casualties from explosive remnants of war.“Parties to the conflict may give differing explanations for recent trends, each designed to justify their own military tactics,” said Richard Bennett, UNAMA’s Human Rights Chief. “The fact remains that only a determined effort to avoid civilian harm, not just by abiding by international humanitarian law but also by reducing the intensity of the fighting, will decrease the suffering of civilian Afghans.”
Ground engagements remained the leading cause of civilian casualties, causing one-third of the overall total, albeit a 16 per cent decrease compared to the first half of 2018. The use of improvised explosive devices (IEDs), mainly in non-suicide attacks, was the second leading cause, representing 28 per cent of the total. Civilian casualties from aerial operations amounted to 14 per cent.UNAMA attributed 52 per cent of all civilian casualties to AGEs, with 38 per cent attributed to Taliban, 11 per cent to Daesh/Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), and 3 per cent to unidentified AGEs.Civilian casualties attributed to AGEs decreased by 43 per cent during the first half of 2019 as compared to 2018. This was mainly due to a reduction in civilian casualties from suicide IEDs. Civilian casualties attributed to PGFs increased by 31 per cent, mostly caused by an increase of aerial and search operations.From 1 January to 30 June 2019, AGEs caused 1,968 civilian casualties (531 deaths and 1,437 injured). There was a sharp drop in civilian casualties from suicide and complex attacks, particularly by Daesh/ISKP.UNAMA documented 985 civilian casualties (306 deaths and 679 injured) from AGE attacks that deliberately targeted civilians, including government officials, tribal elders, aid workers, religious scholars, mullahs and places of worship and culture. UNAMA reiterates that civilians not directly participating in hostilities, including civilian government workers, and civilian objects may never be the target of attack. UNAMA urges AGEs to apply a definition of civilian and civilian object that accords with international humanitarian law.During the first six months of 2019, UNAMA attributed 1,397 civilian casualties (717 deaths and 680 injured) to Pro-Government Forces, a 31 per cent increase from the corresponding period in 2018. PGFs caused 37 per cent of all civilian casualties in the first half of 2019 (18 per cent by Afghan national security forces, 12 per cent by International Military Forces, 2 per cent by Pro-Government armed groups and the remainder to undetermined or multiple PGFs).Aerial operations caused 519 civilian casualties (363 deaths and 156 injured), 150 of which were child casualties (89 deaths and 61 injured). This represents a 39 per cent increase in overall civilian casualties from this tactic. While the number of injured decreased, the number of civilians killed more than doubled, highlighting the lethal character of this tactic. UNAMA continues to express concern about the rising level of civilian harm as a result of aerial operations, particularly those conducted in support of Afghan forces on the ground and strikes on civilian structures.UNAMA attributed 83 per cent of the civilian casualties resulting from aerial operations to International Military Forces, nine per cent to the Afghan Air Force, and the remaining eight per cent to undetermined PGFs.Women continue to be disproportionately impacted by the armed conflict in Afghanistan. Up to 30 June 2019, the conflict caused 430 women casualties (144 deaths and 286 injured), a decrease of 22 per cent compared to the same period in 2018.Child casualties represented almost one-third of the overall total of civilian casualties, with 327 deaths and 880 injured. Children continue to comprise the vast majority –84 per cent– of all civilian casualties from explosive remnants of war.“Parties to the conflict may give differing explanations for recent trends, each designed to justify their own military tactics,” said Richard Bennett, UNAMA’s Human Rights Chief. “The fact remains that only a determined effort to avoid civilian harm, not just by abiding by international humanitarian law but also by reducing the intensity of the fighting, will decrease the suffering of civilian Afghans.”
UNAMA attributed 52 per cent of all civilian casualties to AGEs, with 38 per cent attributed to Taliban, 11 per cent to Daesh/Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), and 3 per cent to unidentified AGEs.Civilian casualties attributed to AGEs decreased by 43 per cent during the first half of 2019 as compared to 2018. This was mainly due to a reduction in civilian casualties from suicide IEDs. Civilian casualties attributed to PGFs increased by 31 per cent, mostly caused by an increase of aerial and search operations.From 1 January to 30 June 2019, AGEs caused 1,968 civilian casualties (531 deaths and 1,437 injured). There was a sharp drop in civilian casualties from suicide and complex attacks, particularly by Daesh/ISKP.UNAMA documented 985 civilian casualties (306 deaths and 679 injured) from AGE attacks that deliberately targeted civilians, including government officials, tribal elders, aid workers, religious scholars, mullahs and places of worship and culture. UNAMA reiterates that civilians not directly participating in hostilities, including civilian government workers, and civilian objects may never be the target of attack. UNAMA urges AGEs to apply a definition of civilian and civilian object that accords with international humanitarian law.During the first six months of 2019, UNAMA attributed 1,397 civilian casualties (717 deaths and 680 injured) to Pro-Government Forces, a 31 per cent increase from the corresponding period in 2018. PGFs caused 37 per cent of all civilian casualties in the first half of 2019 (18 per cent by Afghan national security forces, 12 per cent by International Military Forces, 2 per cent by Pro-Government armed groups and the remainder to undetermined or multiple PGFs).Aerial operations caused 519 civilian casualties (363 deaths and 156 injured), 150 of which were child casualties (89 deaths and 61 injured). This represents a 39 per cent increase in overall civilian casualties from this tactic. While the number of injured decreased, the number of civilians killed more than doubled, highlighting the lethal character of this tactic. UNAMA continues to express concern about the rising level of civilian harm as a result of aerial operations, particularly those conducted in support of Afghan forces on the ground and strikes on civilian structures.UNAMA attributed 83 per cent of the civilian casualties resulting from aerial operations to International Military Forces, nine per cent to the Afghan Air Force, and the remaining eight per cent to undetermined PGFs.Women continue to be disproportionately impacted by the armed conflict in Afghanistan. Up to 30 June 2019, the conflict caused 430 women casualties (144 deaths and 286 injured), a decrease of 22 per cent compared to the same period in 2018.Child casualties represented almost one-third of the overall total of civilian casualties, with 327 deaths and 880 injured. Children continue to comprise the vast majority –84 per cent– of all civilian casualties from explosive remnants of war.“Parties to the conflict may give differing explanations for recent trends, each designed to justify their own military tactics,” said Richard Bennett, UNAMA’s Human Rights Chief. “The fact remains that only a determined effort to avoid civilian harm, not just by abiding by international humanitarian law but also by reducing the intensity of the fighting, will decrease the suffering of civilian Afghans.”
Civilian casualties attributed to AGEs decreased by 43 per cent during the first half of 2019 as compared to 2018. This was mainly due to a reduction in civilian casualties from suicide IEDs. Civilian casualties attributed to PGFs increased by 31 per cent, mostly caused by an increase of aerial and search operations.From 1 January to 30 June 2019, AGEs caused 1,968 civilian casualties (531 deaths and 1,437 injured). There was a sharp drop in civilian casualties from suicide and complex attacks, particularly by Daesh/ISKP.UNAMA documented 985 civilian casualties (306 deaths and 679 injured) from AGE attacks that deliberately targeted civilians, including government officials, tribal elders, aid workers, religious scholars, mullahs and places of worship and culture. UNAMA reiterates that civilians not directly participating in hostilities, including civilian government workers, and civilian objects may never be the target of attack. UNAMA urges AGEs to apply a definition of civilian and civilian object that accords with international humanitarian law.During the first six months of 2019, UNAMA attributed 1,397 civilian casualties (717 deaths and 680 injured) to Pro-Government Forces, a 31 per cent increase from the corresponding period in 2018. PGFs caused 37 per cent of all civilian casualties in the first half of 2019 (18 per cent by Afghan national security forces, 12 per cent by International Military Forces, 2 per cent by Pro-Government armed groups and the remainder to undetermined or multiple PGFs).Aerial operations caused 519 civilian casualties (363 deaths and 156 injured), 150 of which were child casualties (89 deaths and 61 injured). This represents a 39 per cent increase in overall civilian casualties from this tactic. While the number of injured decreased, the number of civilians killed more than doubled, highlighting the lethal character of this tactic. UNAMA continues to express concern about the rising level of civilian harm as a result of aerial operations, particularly those conducted in support of Afghan forces on the ground and strikes on civilian structures.UNAMA attributed 83 per cent of the civilian casualties resulting from aerial operations to International Military Forces, nine per cent to the Afghan Air Force, and the remaining eight per cent to undetermined PGFs.Women continue to be disproportionately impacted by the armed conflict in Afghanistan. Up to 30 June 2019, the conflict caused 430 women casualties (144 deaths and 286 injured), a decrease of 22 per cent compared to the same period in 2018.Child casualties represented almost one-third of the overall total of civilian casualties, with 327 deaths and 880 injured. Children continue to comprise the vast majority –84 per cent– of all civilian casualties from explosive remnants of war.“Parties to the conflict may give differing explanations for recent trends, each designed to justify their own military tactics,” said Richard Bennett, UNAMA’s Human Rights Chief. “The fact remains that only a determined effort to avoid civilian harm, not just by abiding by international humanitarian law but also by reducing the intensity of the fighting, will decrease the suffering of civilian Afghans.”
From 1 January to 30 June 2019, AGEs caused 1,968 civilian casualties (531 deaths and 1,437 injured). There was a sharp drop in civilian casualties from suicide and complex attacks, particularly by Daesh/ISKP.UNAMA documented 985 civilian casualties (306 deaths and 679 injured) from AGE attacks that deliberately targeted civilians, including government officials, tribal elders, aid workers, religious scholars, mullahs and places of worship and culture. UNAMA reiterates that civilians not directly participating in hostilities, including civilian government workers, and civilian objects may never be the target of attack. UNAMA urges AGEs to apply a definition of civilian and civilian object that accords with international humanitarian law.During the first six months of 2019, UNAMA attributed 1,397 civilian casualties (717 deaths and 680 injured) to Pro-Government Forces, a 31 per cent increase from the corresponding period in 2018. PGFs caused 37 per cent of all civilian casualties in the first half of 2019 (18 per cent by Afghan national security forces, 12 per cent by International Military Forces, 2 per cent by Pro-Government armed groups and the remainder to undetermined or multiple PGFs).Aerial operations caused 519 civilian casualties (363 deaths and 156 injured), 150 of which were child casualties (89 deaths and 61 injured). This represents a 39 per cent increase in overall civilian casualties from this tactic. While the number of injured decreased, the number of civilians killed more than doubled, highlighting the lethal character of this tactic. UNAMA continues to express concern about the rising level of civilian harm as a result of aerial operations, particularly those conducted in support of Afghan forces on the ground and strikes on civilian structures.UNAMA attributed 83 per cent of the civilian casualties resulting from aerial operations to International Military Forces, nine per cent to the Afghan Air Force, and the remaining eight per cent to undetermined PGFs.Women continue to be disproportionately impacted by the armed conflict in Afghanistan. Up to 30 June 2019, the conflict caused 430 women casualties (144 deaths and 286 injured), a decrease of 22 per cent compared to the same period in 2018.Child casualties represented almost one-third of the overall total of civilian casualties, with 327 deaths and 880 injured. Children continue to comprise the vast majority –84 per cent– of all civilian casualties from explosive remnants of war.“Parties to the conflict may give differing explanations for recent trends, each designed to justify their own military tactics,” said Richard Bennett, UNAMA’s Human Rights Chief. “The fact remains that only a determined effort to avoid civilian harm, not just by abiding by international humanitarian law but also by reducing the intensity of the fighting, will decrease the suffering of civilian Afghans.”
UNAMA documented 985 civilian casualties (306 deaths and 679 injured) from AGE attacks that deliberately targeted civilians, including government officials, tribal elders, aid workers, religious scholars, mullahs and places of worship and culture. UNAMA reiterates that civilians not directly participating in hostilities, including civilian government workers, and civilian objects may never be the target of attack. UNAMA urges AGEs to apply a definition of civilian and civilian object that accords with international humanitarian law.During the first six months of 2019, UNAMA attributed 1,397 civilian casualties (717 deaths and 680 injured) to Pro-Government Forces, a 31 per cent increase from the corresponding period in 2018. PGFs caused 37 per cent of all civilian casualties in the first half of 2019 (18 per cent by Afghan national security forces, 12 per cent by International Military Forces, 2 per cent by Pro-Government armed groups and the remainder to undetermined or multiple PGFs).Aerial operations caused 519 civilian casualties (363 deaths and 156 injured), 150 of which were child casualties (89 deaths and 61 injured). This represents a 39 per cent increase in overall civilian casualties from this tactic. While the number of injured decreased, the number of civilians killed more than doubled, highlighting the lethal character of this tactic. UNAMA continues to express concern about the rising level of civilian harm as a result of aerial operations, particularly those conducted in support of Afghan forces on the ground and strikes on civilian structures.UNAMA attributed 83 per cent of the civilian casualties resulting from aerial operations to International Military Forces, nine per cent to the Afghan Air Force, and the remaining eight per cent to undetermined PGFs.Women continue to be disproportionately impacted by the armed conflict in Afghanistan. Up to 30 June 2019, the conflict caused 430 women casualties (144 deaths and 286 injured), a decrease of 22 per cent compared to the same period in 2018.Child casualties represented almost one-third of the overall total of civilian casualties, with 327 deaths and 880 injured. Children continue to comprise the vast majority –84 per cent– of all civilian casualties from explosive remnants of war.“Parties to the conflict may give differing explanations for recent trends, each designed to justify their own military tactics,” said Richard Bennett, UNAMA’s Human Rights Chief. “The fact remains that only a determined effort to avoid civilian harm, not just by abiding by international humanitarian law but also by reducing the intensity of the fighting, will decrease the suffering of civilian Afghans.”
During the first six months of 2019, UNAMA attributed 1,397 civilian casualties (717 deaths and 680 injured) to Pro-Government Forces, a 31 per cent increase from the corresponding period in 2018. PGFs caused 37 per cent of all civilian casualties in the first half of 2019 (18 per cent by Afghan national security forces, 12 per cent by International Military Forces, 2 per cent by Pro-Government armed groups and the remainder to undetermined or multiple PGFs).Aerial operations caused 519 civilian casualties (363 deaths and 156 injured), 150 of which were child casualties (89 deaths and 61 injured). This represents a 39 per cent increase in overall civilian casualties from this tactic. While the number of injured decreased, the number of civilians killed more than doubled, highlighting the lethal character of this tactic. UNAMA continues to express concern about the rising level of civilian harm as a result of aerial operations, particularly those conducted in support of Afghan forces on the ground and strikes on civilian structures.UNAMA attributed 83 per cent of the civilian casualties resulting from aerial operations to International Military Forces, nine per cent to the Afghan Air Force, and the remaining eight per cent to undetermined PGFs.Women continue to be disproportionately impacted by the armed conflict in Afghanistan. Up to 30 June 2019, the conflict caused 430 women casualties (144 deaths and 286 injured), a decrease of 22 per cent compared to the same period in 2018.Child casualties represented almost one-third of the overall total of civilian casualties, with 327 deaths and 880 injured. Children continue to comprise the vast majority –84 per cent– of all civilian casualties from explosive remnants of war.“Parties to the conflict may give differing explanations for recent trends, each designed to justify their own military tactics,” said Richard Bennett, UNAMA’s Human Rights Chief. “The fact remains that only a determined effort to avoid civilian harm, not just by abiding by international humanitarian law but also by reducing the intensity of the fighting, will decrease the suffering of civilian Afghans.”
Aerial operations caused 519 civilian casualties (363 deaths and 156 injured), 150 of which were child casualties (89 deaths and 61 injured). This represents a 39 per cent increase in overall civilian casualties from this tactic. While the number of injured decreased, the number of civilians killed more than doubled, highlighting the lethal character of this tactic. UNAMA continues to express concern about the rising level of civilian harm as a result of aerial operations, particularly those conducted in support of Afghan forces on the ground and strikes on civilian structures.UNAMA attributed 83 per cent of the civilian casualties resulting from aerial operations to International Military Forces, nine per cent to the Afghan Air Force, and the remaining eight per cent to undetermined PGFs.Women continue to be disproportionately impacted by the armed conflict in Afghanistan. Up to 30 June 2019, the conflict caused 430 women casualties (144 deaths and 286 injured), a decrease of 22 per cent compared to the same period in 2018.Child casualties represented almost one-third of the overall total of civilian casualties, with 327 deaths and 880 injured. Children continue to comprise the vast majority –84 per cent– of all civilian casualties from explosive remnants of war.“Parties to the conflict may give differing explanations for recent trends, each designed to justify their own military tactics,” said Richard Bennett, UNAMA’s Human Rights Chief. “The fact remains that only a determined effort to avoid civilian harm, not just by abiding by international humanitarian law but also by reducing the intensity of the fighting, will decrease the suffering of civilian Afghans.”
UNAMA attributed 83 per cent of the civilian casualties resulting from aerial operations to International Military Forces, nine per cent to the Afghan Air Force, and the remaining eight per cent to undetermined PGFs.Women continue to be disproportionately impacted by the armed conflict in Afghanistan. Up to 30 June 2019, the conflict caused 430 women casualties (144 deaths and 286 injured), a decrease of 22 per cent compared to the same period in 2018.Child casualties represented almost one-third of the overall total of civilian casualties, with 327 deaths and 880 injured. Children continue to comprise the vast majority –84 per cent– of all civilian casualties from explosive remnants of war.“Parties to the conflict may give differing explanations for recent trends, each designed to justify their own military tactics,” said Richard Bennett, UNAMA’s Human Rights Chief. “The fact remains that only a determined effort to avoid civilian harm, not just by abiding by international humanitarian law but also by reducing the intensity of the fighting, will decrease the suffering of civilian Afghans.”
Women continue to be disproportionately impacted by the armed conflict in Afghanistan. Up to 30 June 2019, the conflict caused 430 women casualties (144 deaths and 286 injured), a decrease of 22 per cent compared to the same period in 2018.Child casualties represented almost one-third of the overall total of civilian casualties, with 327 deaths and 880 injured. Children continue to comprise the vast majority –84 per cent– of all civilian casualties from explosive remnants of war.“Parties to the conflict may give differing explanations for recent trends, each designed to justify their own military tactics,” said Richard Bennett, UNAMA’s Human Rights Chief. “The fact remains that only a determined effort to avoid civilian harm, not just by abiding by international humanitarian law but also by reducing the intensity of the fighting, will decrease the suffering of civilian Afghans.”
Child casualties represented almost one-third of the overall total of civilian casualties, with 327 deaths and 880 injured. Children continue to comprise the vast majority –84 per cent– of all civilian casualties from explosive remnants of war.“Parties to the conflict may give differing explanations for recent trends, each designed to justify their own military tactics,” said Richard Bennett, UNAMA’s Human Rights Chief. “The fact remains that only a determined effort to avoid civilian harm, not just by abiding by international humanitarian law but also by reducing the intensity of the fighting, will decrease the suffering of civilian Afghans.”
“Parties to the conflict may give differing explanations for recent trends, each designed to justify their own military tactics,” said Richard Bennett, UNAMA’s Human Rights Chief. “The fact remains that only a determined effort to avoid civilian harm, not just by abiding by international humanitarian law but also by reducing the intensity of the fighting, will decrease the suffering of civilian Afghans.”

Title: Midyear report on the Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict: (1 January to 30 June 2019) [EN/Dari/PS] - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
UN URGES PARTIES TO HEED CALL FROM AFGHANS: ZERO CIVILIAN CASUALTIES
KABUL- The conflict in Afghanistan continues to have a devastating impact on civilians, with the latest UN update released today documenting 3,812 civilian casualties (1,366 deaths and 2,446 injured) in the first half of 2019.
While the number of civilians killed and injured is 27 per cent down from the same period in 2018 –the year that saw record high numbers of recorded civilian casualties– the UN notes with concern disturbing patterns such as the 27 per cent increase in civilian deaths in the second quarter of 2019 compared with the first.
The UN welcomes the reduction in civilian casualties in the 1 January-30 June 2019 period, but continues to regard the level of harm done to civilians as shocking and unacceptable. UNAMA acknowledges that parties have announced efforts to reduce civilian casualties, but they are insufficient. More must be done.
The UN supports the demand for all parties to reduce civilian casualties to zero, made in the joint declaration by Afghan participants from the 7-8 July 2019 Intra-Afghan Dialogue held in Doha.
“Everyone heard the message loud and clear from Afghan delegates in the Doha talks – ‘reduce civilian casualties to zero!’” said Tadamichi Yamamoto, the Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Afghanistan. “We urge all parties to heed this imperative, to answer the call of Afghans for immediate steps to be taken to reduce the terrible harm being inflicted,” added Yamamoto, who is also head of UNAMA.
Anti-Government Elements (AGEs) continued to cause the majority of civilian casualties. However, civilian deaths attributed to Pro-Government Forces (PGFs) exceeded those caused by AGEs for the second quarter in succession.
Ground engagements remained the leading cause of civilian casualties, causing one-third of the overall total, albeit a 16 per cent decrease compared to the first half of 2018. The use of improvised explosive devices (IEDs), mainly in non-suicide attacks, was the second leading cause, representing 28 per cent of the total. Civilian casualties from aerial operations amounted to 14 per cent.
UNAMA attributed 52 per cent of all civilian casualties to AGEs, with 38 per cent attributed to Taliban, 11 per cent toDaesh/Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), and 3 per cent to unidentified AGEs.
Civilian casualties attributed to AGEs decreased by 43 per cent during the first half of 2019 as compared to 2018. This was mainly due to a reduction in civilian casualties from suicide IEDs. Civilian casualties attributed to PGFs increased by 31 per cent, mostly caused by an increase of aerial and search operations.
From 1 January to 30 June 2019, AGEs caused 1,968 civilian casualties (531 deaths and 1,437 injured). There was a sharp drop in civilian casualties from suicide and complex attacks, particularly byDaesh/ISKP.
UNAMA documented 985 civilian casualties (306 deaths and 679 injured) from AGE attacks that deliberately targeted civilians, including government officials, tribal elders, aid workers, religious scholars, mullahs and places of worship and culture. UNAMA reiterates that civilians not directly participating in hostilities, including civilian government workers, and civilian objects may never be the target of attack. UNAMA urges AGEs to apply a definition of civilian and civilian object that accords with international humanitarian law.
During the first six months of 2019, UNAMA attributed 1,397 civilian casualties (717 deaths and 680 injured) to Pro-Government Forces, a 31 per cent increase from the corresponding period in 2018. PGFs caused 37 per cent of all civilian casualties in the first half of 2019 (18 per cent by Afghan national security forces, 12 per cent by International Military Forces, 2 per cent by Pro-Government armed groups and the remainder to undetermined or multiple PGFs).
Aerial operations caused 519 civilian casualties (363 deaths and 156 injured), 150 of which were child casualties (89 deaths and 61 injured). This represents a 39 per cent increase in overall civilian casualties from this tactic. While the number of injured decreased, the number of civilians killed more than doubled, highlighting the lethal character of this tactic. UNAMA continues to express concern about the rising level of civilian harm as a result of aerial operations, particularly those conducted in support of Afghan forces on the ground and strikes on civilian structures.
UNAMA attributed 83 per cent of the civilian casualties resulting from aerial operations to International Military Forces, nine per cent to the Afghan Air Force, and the remaining eight per cent to undetermined PGFs.
Women continue to be disproportionately impacted by the armed conflict in Afghanistan. Up to 30 June 2019, the conflict caused 430 women casualties (144 deaths and 286 injured), a decrease of 22 per cent compared to the same period in 2018.
Child casualties represented almost one-third of the overall total of civilian casualties, with 327 deaths and 880 injured. Children continue to comprise the vast majority –84 per cent– of all civilian casualties from explosive remnants of war.
“Parties to the conflict may give differing explanations for recent trends, each designed to justify their own military tactics,” said Richard Bennett, UNAMA’s Human Rights Chief. “The fact remains that only a determined effort to avoid civilian harm, not just by abiding by international humanitarian law but also by reducing the intensity of the fighting, will decrease the suffering of civilian Afghans.”
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: 'Answer the call of Afghans' to reduce impact of conflict, UN urges all parties amid increase in civilian airstrike deaths

30 July 2019 - The conflict in Afghanistan continues to be devastating for civilians, with the latest United Nations update released on Tuesday showing that the number of civilians killed by aerial operations increased in the first half of 2019, even as overall civilian casualties declined.
The mid-year report from the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) documented 3,812 civilian casualties (1,366 deaths and 2,446 injured) in the first half of 2019.
While the number of civilians killed and injured is 27 per cent down from the same period in 2018 – the year that saw record high numbers of recorded civilian casualties – the UN noted "disturbing patterns", such as the 27 per cent increase in civilian deaths in the second quarter of 2019 compared with the first.
Aerial operations from January through June killed and injured 519 people – 150 of which were child casualties (89 deaths and 61 injured) – a 39 per cent increase in civilian casualties from airstrikes compared to the same period last year, according to UNAMA.
UNAMA attributed 83 per cent of the civilian casualties resulting from aerial operations to International Military Forces, nine per cent to the Afghan Air Force, and the remaining eight per cent to undetermined pro-Government forces (PGFs).
At the same time, the UN Mission attributed 52 per cent of all civilian casualties to anti-Government elements, with 38 per cent attributed to Taliban, 11 per cent to Daesh/Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), and three per cent to unidentified anti-Government elements.
The UN said that it supports the demand for all parties to reduce civilian casualties to zero, made in the joint declaration by Afghan participants earlier this month in Doha, Qatar at the Intra-Afghan Dialogue.
"Everyone heard the message loud and clear from Afghan delegates in the Doha talks – 'reduce civilian casualties to zero!'" said Tadamichi Yamamoto, the UN Secretary-General's Special Representative for Afghanistan.
"We urge all parties to heed this imperative, to answer the call of Afghans for immediate steps to be taken to reduce the terrible harm being inflicted," added Mr. Yamamoto, who is also Head of UNAMA.

Conflict continues to severely impact women and children
According to UNAMA, women continue to be disproportionately impacted by the armed conflict in Afghanistan. Up to 30 June 2019, fighting caused 430 women casualties – 144 deaths and 286 injured – a decrease of 22 per cent compared to the same period in 2018.
Child casualties represented almost one-third of the overall total of civilian casualties, with 327 deaths and 880 injured. Children continue to comprise the vast majority – 84 per cent– of all civilian casualties from explosive remnants of war.
"Parties to the conflict may give differing explanations for recent trends, each designed to justify their own military tactics," said Richard Bennett, UNAMA's human rights chief.
"The fact remains that only a determined effort to avoid civilian harm, not just by abiding by international humanitarian law but also by reducing the intensity of the fighting, will decrease the suffering of civilian Afghans."



Title: Elite Special Forces soldiers 'fight off 100 ISIS jihadis during fight to save an Afghan family | Daily Mail Online
ByHarry Howard For Mailonline
Published:05:37 EDT, 7 July 2019|Updated:11:40 EDT, 7 July 2019

1.2k
Viewcomments

Eight elite members of the British special forces reportedly fought off more than 100ISISjihadis during anAfghanistanambush.
The soldiers, from the Special Boat Service (SBS), are claimed to have gone to help an Afghan family after their car was blown up by an improvised bomb in eastern Afghanistan.
The elite troops are said to have refused to abandon the family after one of the adults was killed and a young girl badly hurt, and instead they stayed and fought the jihadis for six hours.
Eight elite members of the elite British Special Boat Service (SBS) reportedly fought off more than 100 ISIS jihadis during an Afghanistan ambush. Above: File photo showing members of the SBS
The soldiers' patrol came under attack while they treated the injured girl, forcing them to retreat to an abandoned compound and fight the terrorists back until night fell and they were able to escape,the Daily Star reported.
A source told the paper: 'The SBS team had a medic with them who was trauma-trained.
'He immediately began treating the girl and stopped the bleeding. Then the patrol came under attack and they were forced into undertaking a fighting withdrawal to an abandoned compound.
'The one chance the SBS guys had was to last until nightfall and then they would have the advantage because of their night-vision equipment.'
ISIS gained a foothold in Afghanistan shortly after the group swept across Syria and Iraq in the summer of 2014. Above: ISIS fighters at a training camp
Once under the cover of darkness, the elite team reportedly tricked the jihadis into thinking they were in a different position and then fled to safety with the injured girl.
The team had been on a joint patrol with Afghan special forces in eastern Afghanistan when they were ambushed.
It is not clear when the rescue took place.
The SBS has been involved in a number of operations in Afghanistan since the 9/11 attacks on the World Trade Center in 2001.
By 2014, nearly all British combat troops had been withdrawn from the country.
However, hundreds have been sent back in the past 12 months following a request from US President Donald Trump and Nato to send more soldiers to the country to fight the threat from ISIS and other terror groups.
By 2014, nearly all British combat troops had been withdrawn from Afghanistan but around 1,000 have since returned to counter the renewed terror threat (Above: A British soldier walks during a patrol in Helmand Province in 2007)
There are now around 1,000 British troops deployed in Afghanistan.
ISIS gained a foothold in Afghanistan shortly after the group swept across Syria and Iraq in the summer of 2014.
But since the group lost its so-called caliphate in Syria and Iraq, thousands of its fighters have moved into Afghanistan.
The news of the alleged daring raid came as it emerged today that a Taliban car bomb in eastern Afghanistan on Sunday killed at least 12 people and wounded many more - including dozens of children - in a massive blast that came amid ongoing peace talks in Qatar, officials said.
The Taliban are meeting with US negotiators and Afghan representatives in Doha as the US pushes to end its 18-year involvement in Afghanistan, but violence from the insurgents and the US military has continued apace.
Sunday's suicide car bomb attack hit the eastern city of Ghazni and targeted an intelligence unit, Ghazni provincial governor spokesman Aref Noori told AFP.
The news of the alleged daring raid came as it emerged today that a Taliban car bomb in eastern Afghanistan (pictured) on Sunday killed at least 12 people and wounded many more - including dozens of children
Wahidullah Mayar, a health ministry spokesman, said 12 people had been killed.
He added '179 people, mostly civilians including children, were wounded', a number that jumped from an earlier toll of 70 and suggested a massive explosion.
According to the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA), more than 50 children were among the wounded. It said the total casualty figure was at least 150.
'UNAMA condemns the indiscriminate & disproportionate Taliban attack,' the agency said on Twitter.
Save the Children said at least 25 children from a nearby school had been admitted to hospital, many with shrapnel wounds and severe injuries to the head, neck or chest.
'This is simply unacceptable and we urge all armed groups in Afghanistan to think of future generations and stop the killing and maiming of innocent children,' said Onno van Manen, Save the Children's country director in Afghanistan.
Wahidullah Mayar, a health ministry spokesman, said 12 people had been killed. He added '179 people, mostly civilians including children, were wounded', a number that jumped from an earlier toll of 70 and suggested a massive explosion. Above: A child receives treatment at a hospital in Ghazni today after the suicide bomb blast
The blast comes less than a week after 50 children were wounded in a huge explosion in Kabul that targeted a defence ministry building but also damaged five nearby schools, showering youngsters with flying glass.
The Taliban have claimed responsibility for both attacks.
The seventh round of Taliban-US talks is aimed at forging a deal that would see the US military quit Afghanistan in return for various guarantees.
Both sides have reported substantial progress in the talks, which are paused Sunday and Monday while the Taliban meet with Afghan representatives for a so-called intra-Afghan dialogue.
The Special Boat Service is the special forces unit of the Royal Navy and is comparable with the more well-known Special Air Service (SAS), the Army's equivalent.
They are among the most elite and capable soldiers in the British military and are even more feared than the highly-trained Royal Marines.
The service is made up of small teams who specialise in undercover raids and using the element of surprise.
The Special Boat Service is the special forces unit of the Royal Navy and is comparable with the more well-known Special Air Service (SAS), the Army's equivalent. Above: Members of the SBS
In its infancy, the service's soldiers would use small boats launched from submarines to paddle ashore before sabotaging enemy targets such as rail and communication lines.
However, because nearly all their operations are highly classified, little is known about any individuals who make up the unit.
Most are drawn from the Royal Marines Commandos, and all are exceptionally physically and mentally fit.
Members of the SBS are known to have been involved in both the Afghanistan and Iraq invasions.
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group

Title: ISIS recruiter Huzaifa al-Bakistani killed in US drone attack | NewsTrack English 1
Jul 21 2019 09:44 AM
Srinagar:ISIScommander Huzaifa al-Baistani, who recruits Kashmiri youth to ISIS, has been killed in a drone strike. Highly vicious and trained, these Pakistani terrorists had made many Indian youths terrorists. It was killed in a drone attack in Khoagyani district of Afghanistan's Narghar province on Friday. Indian security agencies believe that Huzaifa used to recruit youth in the ISIS online. It was also responsible for the terrorist activities of the ISIS in Jammu and Kashmir.
Huzaifa was conducting activities of ISIS in Jammu and Kashmir and Afghanistan. Security agencies also believe that the same terrorist was behind the formation of "Wilayah of Hind". It is worth mentioning here that the IS recently claimed that it had set up a new province in India. He made the claim when there was an encounter between the terrorists and the security forces.
According to security agencies, Huzaifa was a Pakistani citizen. After taking an engineering degree, he joined the terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba. He then began to handle the media department of Laskar. He then joined ISIS. It formed the IS's grip in Jammu and Kashmir. It recruited several youths from Kashmir to the IS. Huzaifa had also met a Kashmiri girl. Liz az anagar, a resident of Srinagar, had her daughter Sabira's Nikah Huzaifa.
Offender arrested for looting on alcohol contracts, police start questioning
A huge gang of heroin smugglers busted
He was the first Congress President, today is his death anniversary
© 2024 News Track Live - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

Title: Eight hero Brit soldiers ‘fight off 100 ISIS jihadis in six-hour battle to save family’ – The Sun | The Sun
EIGHT elite British soldiers reportedly fought off at least 100 ISIS jihadis in a six-hour battle to save a family in Afghanistan.
The Special Boat Service (SBS) patrol team had gone to help an Afghan family after their car was blown up by a homemade bomb.
The heroic British troops refused to abandon the family after seeing one adult had been killed and a young girl was badly hurt, theDaily Starreported.
But as they treated the girl, the patrol reportedly came under attack from ISIS extremists.
The Brit troops were forced to withdraw to an abandoned compound and they fought off the jihadis for a gruelling six hours.
“The one chance the SBS guys had was to last until nightfall and then they would have the advantage because of their night-vision equipment,” a source told the paper.
When they had cover of darkness, the elite British troops tricked the ISIS jihadis into thinking they were in another position.
The patrol team then reportedly fled to safety along with the injured girl who made a full recovery.
The SBS troops had been on a joint patrol with Afghan special forces in eastern Afghanistan when they were ambushed.
It is not known exactly when this daring rescue took place.
The Special Boat Service has carried out a series of operations in Afghanistan, starting not long after the 9/11 attacks in 2001.
The Special Boat Service mainly recruits from the Royal Marines - a part of the military already considered by most to be an elite force.
Despite its secretive nature, the SBS began during WWII as a specialist Army unit trained to undertake difficult amphibious operations.
Its primary role of the SBS is to gather data regarding targets, ascertain the direction of naval artillery fire, and to counter terrorism.
In the service’s infancy, men would paddle ashore on small boats launched from subs to sabotage enemy rail and communication lines.
They would also plant mines on enemy ships, using their ability to work undercover and utilise the crucial element of surprise.
The SBS still plays an active, although a very secretive, role in military operations and most recently served in both Afghanistan and Iraq.
For 13 years, between 2001 and 2014, the UK was involved in the conflict in Afghanistan against the Taliban and fighters from Al-Qaeda.
By 2014, the UK had withdrawn almost all of its combat troops from the country.
But hundreds have been sent back over the past year after Donald Trump and Nato asked allies to send more soldiers to the country to combat the terror threat.
There are currently nearly 1,000 UK troops deployed in Afghanistan.
ISIS appeared in Afghanistan shortly after the group's core fighters swept across Syria and Iraq in the summer of 2014, carving out a base in about one-third of both countries.
But the terror group is now expanding its footprint in Afghanistan "with thousands and thousands" of fighters after losing its so-called caliphate in Syria and Iraq.
Today, ISIS in Afghanistan has many fighters from Central Asia but also from Arab countries, Chechnya, India and Bangladesh, as well as ethnic Uighurs from China.
A US intelligence official based in Afghanistan told The Associated Press that a recent wave of attacks in the capital, Kabul, were "practice runs" for even bigger assaults in Europe and the US.
"This group is the most near-term threat to our homelands from Afghanistan," the official said on condition of anonymity, adding that ISIS’s "core mandate" was to conduct "external attacks".
"That is their goal. It's just a matter of time," he said. "It is very scary."
We pay for your stories! Do you have a story for The Sun Online news team? Email us attips@the-sun.co.ukor call 0207 782 4368 . You can WhatsApp us on 07810 791 502. We pay for videos too. Clickhereto upload yours.
©News Group Newspapers Limited in England No. 679215 Registered office: 1 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9GF. "The Sun", "Sun", "Sun Online" are registered trademarks or trade names of News Group Newspapers Limited. This service is provided on News Group Newspapers' Limited'sStandard Terms and Conditionsin accordance with ourPrivacy & Cookie Policy. To inquire about a licence to reproduce material, visit ourSyndicationsite. View our online Press Pack. For other inquiries,Contact Us. To see all content on The Sun, please use the Site Map. The Sun website is regulated by theIndependent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO)
Our journalists strive for accuracy but on occasion we make mistakes. For further details of our complaints policy and to make a complaint please click this link:thesun.co.uk/editorial-complaints/

Title: Latest News | Breaking News | Audio News | Kerala News | India News | World News | Politics | Movies | Travel | Cartoons | Photogallery | Kerala Kaumudi Online
OR


Title: 
	IS suspect from Kerala dies in U.S. drone strike - The Hindu

To enjoy additional benefits
CONNECT WITH US
Updated- August 01, 2019 10:56 am IST - PALAKKAD
A young engineering undergraduate from Edappal in Malappuram district, who reportedly joined the terror group Islamic State (IS) more than a year ago, was suspected to have been killed in an American drone attack in Afghanistan.
The police confirmed that the family of Mohammed Muhsin, 22, at Edappal got a message in Malayalam a couple of days ago saying that he was martyred in God’s path as per his wish. A top police officer, without going on record, said Muhsin had been killed in the drone attack along with an IS leader in Afghanistan more than 10 days ago.
Muhsin’s family had registered a complaint at the Changaramkulam police station in Malappuram district in October 2017 stating that he was missing. A final-year mechanical engineering student at a college in Thrissur, Muhsin had quit his studies and left for Bengaluru after having been influenced by the IS ideology.
From Bengaluru, he went to Dubai. Family sources said he was missing from Dubai. The police said he reached Afghanistan as part of an IS assignment after undergoing training in the use of arms. Police sources said a few other Keralites too had joined the IS along with Muhsin.
Rumours are being spread about Keralites reaching the IS camps even when their families are being warned by some sources against disclosing any details about them.
“Distance between God and IS is minimal. This is the gist of what they indoctrinate to get mercenaries for their acts of terror,” said a senior police officer.
Published- August 01, 2019 05:35 am IST
terrorism (crime)
Copyright© 2024, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
BACK TO TOP
Terms & conditions|Institutional Subscriber
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by ourcommunity guidelinesfor posting your comments.
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.

Title: Indonesia: Militant’s arrest reveals plots, links to ISIS, Latest World News - The New Paper
JAKARTA:Indonesian police said on Tuesday that a suspected militant arrested last week was plotting Independence Day bomb attacks, and they suspect he was part of a network behind the violence in the Philippines that has ties to the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) group in Afghanistan.
Indonesia's anti-terrorism unit Densus 88 arrested the suspect in West Sumatra, national police spokesman Dedi Prasetyo told a news conference.
The suspect, identified as Novendri, was a member of the ISIS-inspired Jemaah Ansharut Daulah group, which was banned in Indonesia last year.
The authorities believe Novendri was planning bomb attacks, including on two police headquarters in the city of Padang in West Sumatra, and other police posts on Indonesia's Independence Day, on Aug 17.
Police displayed a chart at the news conference, setting out the suspected foreign links of Indonesian militants including a leader, identified as Saefulah, believed to be based in an area of Afghanistan where ISIS militants operate.
According to Mr Prasetyo, some Indonesian militants had tried to reach Afghanistan after the defeat of ISIS in Iraq and Syria.
Another Indonesian on the chart, who was arrested in the city of Bekasi in West Java, was suspected of planning a suicide attack in Jakarta during protests in May over the election, said Mr Prasetyo.
Police think the network had links to militants in the Philippines and helped a married couple there from Indonesia's Sulawesi island.
The authorities believe the couple carried out a suicide attack on a cathedral on Jolo island in the Philippines in February, in which 22 people were killed.
Mr Prasetyo said Indonesian anti-terrorism officers were working with police from countries including Malaysia, the Philippines, Afghanistan, the US and Australia in their investigation.- REUTERS
Get The New Paper on your phone with the free TNP app. Download from theApple App StoreorGoogle Play Storenow

Title: Forty-two health facilities run by SCA in Wardak closed by Taliban - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
Following last week’s deadly attack by ANSF forces in Wardak against The Swedish Committee for Afghanistan, SCA, the Taliban have forced SCA to close all health clinics and a hospital in Wardak province. This affects provision of health services to hundreds of thousands of people, particularly women and children.
The Taliban forced SCA to close 42 out of 77 health facilities in six out of nine districts of Wardak province so far, and due to this closure, an estimated number of over 5,700 patients are affected on daily basis.
“Forcing SCA to close health facilities hence denying people to receive medical treatment and health services is an obvious violation of human rights and international humanitarian law, says Sonny Mansson, SCA country director.
“We demand immediate reopening of all health facilities for the people and we strongly urge all parties involved in conflict to refrain from such actions which deliberately puts civilian lives at risk”, he added.
The Taliban demand was given this weekend directly to SCA and its facilities in the area, following last week’s attack by ANSF forces the night between 8-9 July on a clinic in Tangi Saidan area of Daimirdad district, where four people were confirmed dead and one is still missing; the attack by ANSF was strongly condemned by the SCA*.
SCA is in continuous contact with all parties in an attempt to reopen the health facilities in the Wardak province and we specifically urge Taliban leadership to agree on reopening of the health facilities with immediate effect.
The closing of mentioned health facilities affects per day more than:
3 800 outpatient department1 100 children under five years of age620 visits to EPI (expanded program on immunization)220 MCH patients (maternal and child health)100 IPD patients (in-patient department)
*Press release the 11th of July: SCA strongly condemns attack on health clinic in Wardak province
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: SCA calls for protection of civilians, its medical staff and health facilities - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
Following the issuance of a press release, the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan (SCA) hereby addresses all parties involved in the war, during a joint press conference held today in Kabul at the office of Agency Coordinating Body for Afghan Relief and Development (ACBAR) and urges them to stop violation of the International Humanitarian Law and human rights laws as soon as possible.
SCA is deeply concerned about the continuing violence against civilians, especially its healthcare staff and facilities. The recent attack on one of SCA’s clinics by Afghan National Security Force (ANSF) the night between 8-9 July has cost lives of four people and one person is missing. Among the death bodies, two of them were the SCA’s health staff and the remaining two were the patients in the clinic.
"We condemn the attack, and we urge the government to thoroughly investigate the incident and share its results with the people of Afghanistan and prosecute the offenders," says Dr. Ahmed Khalid Fahim, Program Director of SCA.
In response to the attack, the armed opposition groups (AOGs) has also shut down the 42 out of 77 clinics of SCA in six districts of Maidan Wardak under their control. They have attributed their act with US troops contributing in the operation and the lack of reaction from the SCA.
"We have always raised our voice and denounced such attacks by the forces involved in the war. We want the opposition groups to allow operation of these clinics because the real victims will be the people of Maidan Wardak province," adds Dr. Ahmed Khalid Fahim.
During 2019, SCA has recorded 17 cases of violence against clinics and schools of under its support.  Most of these incidents took place by direct attacks of ANSF and AOGs or exchange of fire between them.
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: No title found


Title: We strongly condemn attack on health clinic in Afghanistan | Svenska Afghanistankommittén har bytt pressrum – se www.sak.se/press i stället!
Informationen på denna sida är avsedd för journalister, press och media.Klicka ja för att komma till nyhetsrummet. Klickar du nej kommer du tillbaka till mynewsdesk.com.
Pressmeddelande -11 Juli 2019 15:38

The Swedish Committee for Afghanistan, SCA (Svenska Afghanistankommittén, SAK) strongly condemns an attack the night between July 8-9 on one of our health facilities in the Tangi Saidan area of Daimirdad district in Wardak province. Four people are confirmed dead and one is missing.

- This is a shocking violation against international humanitarian law and we urge warring parties to immediately stop targeting civilians and health facilities, says Dr Khalid Fahim, programme Director at The Swedish Committee for Afghanistan, SCA (Svenska Afghanistankommittén, SAK).
According to SCA sources the attack was carried out by ANSF forces. When the forces were entering the building, they killed one person who was accompanying a patient. Four more people were then detained and taken outside the building and three, amongst them two SCA-employees, were later found shot dead approx. 50 meters from the facility and the fourth person who is SCA employee still missing.
Such outrageous use of force against civilians and health facilities constitutes a serious violation of applicable international humanitarian law and it affects provision of health services delivery to the people in the local community.
- We demand an independent investigation, preferably in cooperation with impartial humanitarian international organizations. Our priority is to serve people in the community, to help young and old, sick and injured, no matter religion or political standpoint, says Dr Shah Mahmood, SCA acting country director
The Comprehensive Health Clinic in Tangi Saidan is run by SCA and financed by the Afghan Public Ministry of Health. In 2018 over 2,9 million patients were consulted by SCA health care activities. Despite the attack, SCA will still work for a better future for Afghanistan where human rights are respected and all citizens live in dignity, enjoy equal opportunity and social justice.
For more information please contact:
Parwiz Ahmad Faizi, Communications Manager
Tel: 0093 (0) 700 17 20 28
Email:parwiz.faizi@sca.org.af
Kajsa Waaghals, kommunikationsrådgivare i Kabul, +93 70 723 2628,kajsa.waaghals@sca.org.af,
Shah Mahmood, finanschef och tf landchef Afghanistan,Shah.Mahmood@sca.org.af
Ahmad Khalid Fahim, programchef Afghanistan, +93799308756, (engelsktalande)
The Swedish Committee for Afghanistan, SCA (Svenska Afghanistankommittén, SAK) works for an Afghanistan free from poverty, violence and discrimination.SCA have been active in Afghanistan for more than thirty years and have more than 6 000 employees working in different parts of the country.
https://swedishcommittee.org
https://sak.se
Svenska Afghanistankommittén arbetar med förändring i ett av världens farligaste länder.
SAK är en medlemsbaserad bistånds- och solidaritetsorganisation som arbetar rättighetsbaserat, och som har arbetat i nästan 40 år i Afghanistan.
SAK har över 6 000 anställda, varav över 99 procent är afghaner.
SAKs verksamhet riktar särskilt in sig på att nå ut och stärka de allra mest utsatta grupperna på landsbygden.
När du väljer att skapa ett konto och följa ett nyhetsrum kommer dina personuppgifter behandlas av oss och av ägaren av nyhetsrummet för att du ska kunna motta nyheter och uppdateringar enligt dina bevakningsinställningar.
För att läsa mer om detta, var vänlig läs vårIntegritetspolicysom berör vår behandling av dina personuppgifter, ochIntegritetspolicy för Contactssom berör behandlingen av dina personuppgifter från ägaren av nyhetsrummet du följer.
Vänligen notera att våraAnvändarvillkorgäller alla våra tjänster.
Du kan dra tillbaka ditt samtycke när som helst genom att avregistrera dig eller genom att ta bort ditt konto.
Mejl skickat till __email__. Klicka på länken i mejlet för att följa Svenska Afghanistankommittén har bytt pressrum – se www.sak.se/press i stället!.

Title: SCA strongly condemns attack on health clinic in Wardak province - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
The Swedish Committee for Afghanistan, SCA, strongly condemns an attack the night between July 8-9 on one of SCA’s health facilities in the Tangi Saidan area of Daimirdad district in Wardak province. Four people are confirmed dead and one is missing.
According to SCA sources the attack was carried out by ANSF forces. When the forces were entering the building, they killed one person who was accompanying a patient. Four more people were then detained and taken outside the building and three, amongst them two SCA-employees, were later found shot dead approx. 50 meters from the facility and the fourth person who is SCA employee still missing.
Such outrageous use of force against civilians and health facilities constitutes a serious violation of applicable international humanitarian law and it affects provision of health services delivery to the people in the local community.
The Comprehensive Health Clinic in Tangi Saidan is run by SCA and financed by the Afghan Public Ministry of Health. In 2018 over 2,9 million patients were consulted by SCA health care activities. Despite the attack, SCA will still work for a better future for Afghanistan where human rights are respected and all citizens live in dignity, enjoy equal opportunity and social justice.
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Business News Today: Read Latest Business news, India Business News Live, Share Market & Economy News | The Economic Times
Get only relevant updates on WhatsApp. No Spam.
Learn from the top business gurus.
September 23
India's corporate travel sector, valued at over USD 10.6 billion, is projected to grow at a 10.1% CAGR to USD 20.8 billion by FY30. This gro...
India's electric two-wheeler market is booming, but exports remain minimal. Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari sees potential for India ...
Monthly instalment schemes by jewellers are sustaining gold demand despite high prices. Tanishq, Reliance Jewels, and Senco Gold have seen s...
Vodafone Idea has been directed to pay Rs 50,000 in compensation to a senior citizen for mental harassment due to abrupt disconnection of hi...
Quick commerce is driving growth in grocery shopping, with 31% of Indian shoppers using it for core needs and 39% for top-ups, according to ...
The expo and the conference combined represent the most sought-after event of the Oil & Gas industry that is held every year to bring the in...
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Java Programming with ChatGPT: Learn using Generative AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Basics of Generative AI : Unveiling Tomorrow's Innovations
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Generative AI for Dynamic Java Web Applications with ChatGPT
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Mastering C++ Fundamentals with Generative AI: A Hands-On
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Artificial Intelligence(AI)
Master in Python Language Quickly Using the ChatGPT Open AI
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Office Productivity
Zero to Hero in Microsoft Excel: Complete Excel guide 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Stock Trading
Market 101: An Insight into Trendlines and Momentum
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Markets 102: Mastering Sentiment Indicators for Swing and Positional Trading
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Market 103: Mastering Trends with RMI and Techno-Funda Insights
By - Rohit Srivastava, Founder
Stock Trading
Market 104: Options Trading: Kickstart Your F&O Adventure
By - Saketh R, Founder- QuickAlpha, Full Time Options Trader
Astrology
Vastu Shastra Course
By - Sachenkumar Rai, Vastu Shashtri
Data Science
SQL for Data Science along with Data Analytics and Data Visualization
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Web Development
A Comprehensive ASP.NET Core MVC 6 Project Guide for 2024
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Stock Trading
ROC Made Easy: Master Course for ROC Stock Indicator
By - Souradeep Dey, Equity and Commodity Trader, Trainer
Stock Trading
RSI Made Easy: RSI Trading Course
By - Souradeep Dey, Equity and Commodity Trader, Trainer
Stock Trading
Technical Analysis for Everyone - Technical Analysis Course
By - Abhijit Paul, Technical Research Head, Fund Manager- ICICI Securities
Office Productivity
Mastering Microsoft Office: Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and 365
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Marketing
Digital marketing - Wordpress Website Development
By - Shraddha Somani, Digital Marketing Trainer, Consultant, Strategiest and Subject Matter expert
Web Development
Mastering Full Stack Development: From Frontend to Backend Excellence
By - Metla Sudha Sekhar, Developer and Lead Instructor
Finance
Financial Literacy i.e Lets Crack the Billionaire Code
By - CA Rahul Gupta, CA with 10+ years of domain experience, trainer
Stock Trading
Introduction to Technical Analysis & Candlestick Theory
By - Dinesh Nagpal, Full Time Trader, Ichimoku & Trading Psychology Expert
Leadership
Business Storytelling Masterclass
By - Ameen Haque, Founder of Storywallahs
Marketing
Future of Marketing & Branding Masterclass
By - Dr. David Aaker, Professor at Haas School of Business
HR
Human Potential and the Future of Employment
By - Lynda Gratton, Co-chair of the World Economic Forum Council on Work, Wages and Job Creation, Professor of Management Practice
Strategy
ESG and Business Sustainability Strategy
By - Vipul Arora, Partner, ESG & Climate Solutions at Sattva Consulting Author I Speaker I Thought Leader
Stock Trading
Options Trading Course For Beginners
By - Chetan Panchamia, Options Trader
Finance
Financial Reporting and Analytics
By - Dr. C.P. Gupta, Professor: Department of Finance and Business Economics, University of Delhi
Stock Trading
Options Scalping Made Easy
By - Sivakumar Jayachandran, Ace Scalper
Stock Trading
Futures Trading Made Easy: Future & Options Trading Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Markets Made Easy
By - elearnmarkets, Financial Education by StockEdge
Stock Trading
Renko Chart Patterns Made Easy
By - Kaushik Akiwatkar, Derivative Trader and Investor
Stock Trading
Options Trading Made Easy: Options Trading Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Investing Made Easy: Beginner's Stock Market Investment Course
By - elearnmarkets, Financial Education by StockEdge
Stock Trading
Macroeconomics Made Easy: Online Certification Course
By - Anirudh Saraf, Founder- Saraf A & Associates, Chartered Accountant
Stock Trading
Stock Valuation Made Easy
By - Rounak Gouti, Investment commentary writer
Tuesday, 24 Sep, 2024
Vodafone Idea (Vi) has said it’s now up to the government to come up with a mechanism to offer financial relief to the company, after the Supreme Court’s recent rejection of the telco’s curative petition seeking a re-computation of its adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues.
India’s aspiration to be a $7-trillion economy by the end of the decade can be achieved as a “strong” Prime Minister Narendra Modi rolls out the digital and physical infrastructure that’s drawing multinationals involved in manufacturing advanced products and services, said Jamie Dimon, chairman and CEO, JPMorgan.
This is India’s moment and the country should seize it, Nvidia chief executive Jensen Huang said after a roundtable in New York between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and leading technology industry CEOs. Sundar Pichai, the CEO of Google and its parent Alphabet, said the Prime Minister has a clear vision of the opportunity that artificial intelligence will create, and is challenging top companies to do more in India.
Securing a US student visa is just the beginning for international students. Maintaining it is crucial, as violations like prolonged absence, unauthorized transfer, or fraudulent activities can lead to revocation. Immediate steps include understanding the reason, contacting university services, reapplying or appealing, and seeking legal assistance if necessary.
High net worth Indians are using corporate credit cards for personal expenses during overseas travels to avoid breaching the $250,000 annual limit on foreign remittance. The government may soon implement rules to include international credit card spends under this limit, but distinguishing personal from business expenses remains challenging.
Prodigy Finance has announced a $5,000 scholarship for students pursuing higher education abroad for the Spring 2025 intake. Applications open in September 2024 and close on September 30, 2024. Eligible candidates must be accepted into a Prodigy Finance-supported program and demonstrate academic excellence and community commitment.
Rajinikanth to Mahesh Babu: South Stars Steal The Spotlight at Anant Ambani's Wedding
Explore Goa In The Rains: 10 Must-Do Activities, Places To Visit
Sonakshi Sinha wedding photos out: Actress marries Zaheer Iqbal in civil ceremony
How Four Words from Chiranjeevi Saved Pawan Kalyan's Life
​Mushrooms Can Lower Risk Of A Cancer Diagnosis​​​
What To Eat, What To Avoid During Pregnancy? Follow This ICMR Guide
Want To Live Longer? Watch Your Salt Intake, Advises ICMR
How vegans can get enough protein? What ICMR says
Balakrishna's 5 Controversies. Latest: Actress Anjali Incident
Why These Two Rs 10 Notes Fetched Over Rs 12 Lakhs At Auction?
Magnificent Mango: 5 Beauty Secrets Of This Summer Delight
​Radhika Merchant’s Space Suit Designer For Ambani Pre-Wedding Bash, Has Worked With Jennifer Lopez & Karlie Kloss!​
​Flax Seeds Can Aid In Weight Loss, Improve Gut Heath: Here’s The Best Time To Consume Them​
​NASA Finds 126 Alien Planets! Does This Mean There’s Extraterrestrial Life?​
You Can Enjoy This 5-Day Cruise For Just Rs 5,000. Thanks To Indian Govt
Scandals that destroyed Bollywood celebs' career
​From Vedavid To Vamika, 6 Bollywood Babies With Unique Names​
Blockout 2024: From Taylor Swift To Alia Bhatt, Celebs Are Being Boycotted Online
Gainers & Losers: Vedanta, IEX among 7 stocks in limelight on Tuesday
SIPs in 5 small cap mutual funds multiplied wealth by 100x in 15 years
9 famous street food to try when in Gujarat
8 yoga poses to reduce stubborn waist fat
8 health benefits of having ghee coffee in the morning
9 excellent immunity boosting food for kids
9 chia seeds benefits for skin and hair
These 4 F&O stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest
These 4 stocks closed above VWAP on September 23
These 3 stocks showed RSI Trending up on September 23
Bullish Momentum: These 3 stocks with White Marubozu Pattern on September 23
These 4 stocks closed below VWAP on September 23
At multi-year highs: These 6 stocks witnessed 5-year swing high breakouts
Positive Breakout: ACC among 4 stocks crossed their 200 DMAs
Chia Seeds: Miracle Superfood Or Overhyped Trend
Who Has Chris Martin Dated? A Look At Coldplay Singer's Famous Girlfriends
Gainers & Losers: Vodafone Idea, Indus Towers among 6 stocks in limelight on Monday
7 immunity boosting drinks for weather change
7 high-protein dishes made with chickpeas
7 house plants best suited for bathroom
7 effective morning exercises to lose weight
Gold price up more than 23% in one year; check latest price of gold
7 common mistakes you are doing to lose weight
7 health benefits of drinking haldi doodh everyday at night
7 homemade drinks to boost energy
Tech Mahindra among 3 stocks showing RSI trending up
Cochin Shipyard among 5 stocks with White Marubozu Pattern
These 5 F&O stocks saw a high increase in futures open interest
Finolex Industries and 3 other stocks close below VWAP
Vodafone Idea and 3 other stocks closed above VWAP
Check out these iconic Bonedi Bari Durga Puja in Kolkata
Why your EPF claim may get rejected: Here are 11 reasons
What DonaldTrump promised to accomplish on day one as president
Cancer patients: Tips to go through chemotherapy
Direct Tax Vivad Se Vishwas Scheme 2024: CBDT notifies these rules, forms from October 1, 2024
Oscars 2025: 'Laapataa Ladies' picked as India's entry; how Kiran Rao reacted, top film contenders and other details
India’s first Mpox clade 1 case in Kerala: Symptoms, treatment, risk factors, travel advices and other details
Want to visit the equator? Countries to consider and your budget guide from India
Top 5 flexi-cap funds with up to 28% returns in 3 yrs
Kamala Harris isn't alone! 5 Indian politicians who love to cook and eat
Hot on Web
In Case you missed it
Top Calculators
Top Prime Articles
Top Performing MF
Top Story Listing
Top Commodities
Top Definitions
Top Slideshow
Latest News
Follow us on:

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:48Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-09-24 13:48Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Taliban Close 42 Swedish Charity Health Centers in Maidan Wardak | Ariana News
‘Engagement is key’ with Afghanistan, says UN political chief
UN chief says new laws ‘strip Afghan women and girls’ of all their rights
IEA blasts UN for not being invited to United Nations General Assembly
Iran walls off part of border with Afghanistan
IEA extends condolences to Iran following deadly coal mine explosion
Biden designates UAE as a second major defense partner after India
Israeli troops raid, order closure of Al Jazeera’s West Bank bureau
Top Hezbollah commander among 14 killed in Israeli strike on Beirut
More than 100 killed or missing as Sinaloa Cartel war rages in Mexico
Israel unleashes heavy strikes on Lebanon as US, UK urge restraint
Iran’s Guards ban communications devices after strike on Hezbollah
Pakistan picks new chief of powerful spy agency ISI
Sri Lankans elect Marxist-leaning Dissanayake as president to fix economy
At least 30 dead in Iran coal mine explosion
Iran gave Russia missiles but no launchers, sources say
Tahawol: Kabul-Islamabad ties discussed
Tahawol: 79th session of UN General Assembly discussed
Tahawol: UNSC meeting on situation in Afghanistan reviewed
Tahawol: Central Asian countries’ demand to engage with Afghanistan discussed
Tahawol: UNSC to hold meeting on Afghanistan discussed
Trade between Afghanistan and Pakistan drops sharply
Construction of 252 MVA substation in Kabul’s Tarakhel gets underway
Energy minister, Indian company talk handover of Arghandi 500 KV substation
Baradar hails Termez Trade Center as a ‘new chapter’ in Afghan-Uzbek partnership
Bayat Power in talks with Afghan officials for Phase 2 of gas to electricity project
Afghan national cricket players return to Kabul after ODI series win against South Africa
France accused of ‘match-fixing’ over dismal performance against Iran at Futsal World Cup
South Africa win last game of ODI series against Afghanistan
Afghanistan advance to knockout stage of FIFA Futsal World Cup in Uzbekistan
Afghanistan’s Futsal WC fate hangs in balance
Did the US just get lured into war with the Houthis?
OPED: Is the West’s conscience being overshadowed by its political ego?
Peace won’t be found in silence or fear, says AIHRC chair
OPINION: The awful truth about growing up in Afghanistan
Published
on
By

The Taliban militant group have forced the Swedish Committee for Afghanistan (SCA) to close dozens of its clinics and health centers in six districts of Maidan Wardak Province, the organization said on Wednesday.
In a statement, SCA said that this affect provision of health services to hundreds of thousands of people, particularly women and children.
The Taliban forced SCA to close 42 out of 77 health facilities in six out of nine districts of Wardak province so far, and due to this closure, an estimated number of over 5,700 patients are affected on daily basis.
“Forcing SCA to close health facilities hence denying people to receive medical treatment and health services is an obvious violation of human rights and international humanitarian law," said Sonny Mansson, SCA country director.
“We demand immediate reopening of all health facilities for the people and we strongly urge all parties involved in conflict to refrain from such actions which deliberately puts civilian lives at risk,” he added.
The Taliban demand was given this weekend directly to SCA and its facilities in the area, following last week’s attack by ANSF forces the night between 8-9 July on a clinic in Tangi Saidan area of Daimirdad district, where four people were confirmed dead and one is still missing; the attack by ANSF was strongly condemned by the SCA.
SCA is in continuous contact with all parties in an attempt to reopen the health facilities in the Wardak province and we specifically urge Taliban leadership to agree on reopening of the health facilities with immediate effect, the organization noted.
New Year’s Eve 2020 Celebrations Across the World
IEA’s supreme leader meets with Samangan’s local officials
Kabir reiterates doors of Islamic Emirate are open to the public
UN in Afghanistan ‘concerned’ about new morality law
US says IEA is not ally in fight against Daesh
Political Deputy PM urges world to implement pledges made at Doha III meeting
IEA supreme leader approves law on propagation of virtue and prevention of vice
Rosemary DiCarlo said the situation has been complicated by the IEA’s new morality law
Published
on
By
The head of UN political affairs, Rosemary DiCarlo, on Monday warned that the Doha process is at risk given the Islamic Emirate’s increasing restrictive policies.
Addressing a meeting on women’s rights in New York, ahead of the UN General Assembly, she said the Doha process “entails a step-for-step approach” with the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (IEA), requiring them to, for example, make governance more inclusive, and to respect women’s and girl’s rights.
In exchange, the international community would then incrementally ease restrictions and provide development support.
DiCarlo said the situation has been complicated by the IEA’s new morality law.
“We had Member States willing to engage, willing to go forward with a step-for-step project. However, I think we risk right now of ending this process,” she warned.
“At this point, those who've been participating in our process want to continue, but they really expect the Taliban (IEA) to take part in good faith, and they've got to start abiding by their international obligations.”
She emphasized that “engagement is key”, stressing that “we cannot let Afghan women and men down.”
The general debate of the 79th session of the General Assembly opened Tuesday, 24 September, and will continue through Saturday, 28 September, and conclude on Monday, 30 September 2024.
The theme for the general debate of the 79th session of the General Assembly is "Leaving no one behind: acting together for the advancement of peace, sustainable development and human dignity for present and future generations".


The UN chief stressed that the oppression of women undermines Afghanistan’s development
Published
on
By
UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres on Monday warned that Afghanistan’s new laws "strip Afghan women and girls of their rights and freedoms across the board," and are causing harm to the nation.
Speaking on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly in New York, Guterres said there was "a deep crisis of gender-based discrimination and oppression" against women in Afghanistan.
"Afghan women and girls are largely confined to their homes, with no freedom of movement and almost no access to education or work," said the UN chief.
Stating that Afghan women also suffer high rates of violence, honor killings, and rising maternal mortality, he said many feel "unsafe, isolated and powerless."
The UN chief stressed that the oppression of women undermines Afghanistan's development and said: "Extreme gender-based discrimination is not only a systematic abuse of women and girls and a violation of human rights conventions and laws. It is self-harm on a national scale."
He called on Afghan authorities to remove all restrictions against women and girls, reopen schools, and allow women to fully participate in society.
"Without recognizing the rights of one-half of its population, Afghanistan will never take its rightful place on the global stage," Guterres said.
The ruling Islamic Emirate has however repeatedly said that women’s rights are ensured in Afghanistan in accordance with Sharia law.
Zia Ahmad Takal, Deputy Spokesman of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said the absence of an IEA representative at the summit was a violation of the rights of the people of Afghanistan.
Published
on
By
Afghanistan’s foreign ministry has lashed out at the United Nations for not inviting an Islamic Emirate representative to attend the 79th UN General Assembly which gets underway in New York on Tuesday.
Zia Ahmad Takal, Deputy Spokesman of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said the absence of an IEA representative at the summit was a violation of the rights of the people of Afghanistan.
He said given the situation in the country, positive decisions should be made by the international community with regards to the country.
The Islamic Emirate appointed Suhail Shaheen as the permanent representative of Afghanistan to the United Nations, but the UN has not yet handed over the seat to the IEA.
The 79th UN General Assembly, deemed one of the largest global diplomatic events, will get underway on Tuesday in New York.
The General Assembly is held annually at UN headquarters in New York, bringing together the heads of state and government of member states. It is to take place from Sept. 24 to 30.
The 79th session will be opened by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and will be chaired by Cameroonian President Philemon Yong.
At least 133 heads of state and government, three vice presidents, 80 deputy prime ministers and 45 ministers are expected to attend.
UN leaders are meeting as numerous crises, conflicts and wars play out around the world.
Many of these, including Gaza, Ukraine, Sudan and Haiti crises are expected to be on the agenda.
On Gaza, along with emphasizing a cease-fire, member states are expected to highlight Israel’s violations of international law and UN resolutions, as well as the difficulties in delivering humanitarian aid to the region, Anadolu reported.
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas is scheduled to speak the morning of Sept. 26, while Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is scheduled for the afternoon.
This year, the main theme of the UN General Assembly discussions is "Leaving no one behind: acting together for the advancement of peace, sustainable development and human dignity for present and future generations."
"Today's global order simply does not work for everyone. In fact, I would go further and say: it's not working for anyone," said Guterres.
Therefore, it is expected that leaders will address the reform of the Security Council and the international financial architecture.

Pakistani minister calls for increased foreign aid for Afghan refugees
Iran through to knockout phase after defeating Guatemala in Futsal World Cup
South Africa confirms it will continue playing bilateral cricket with Afghanistan
Israel unleashes heavy strikes on Lebanon as US, UK urge restraint
Miller accuses House Republicans of subpoenaing Blinken over Afghanistan when he’s away
Tahawol: UNSC meeting on situation in Afghanistan reviewed
More than 100 killed or missing as Sinaloa Cartel war rages in Mexico
Afghanistan hand South Africa another heavy defeat
Copyright © 2024 Ariana News. All rights reserved!

Title: Why did US declare an anti-Iran group terrorist? – DW – 07/05/2019
In a surprising move, the Trump administration designated Jaish al-Adl, a Pakistan-based anti-Iran militant group, as a global terrorist organization. What could be the regional implications of such a move? DW analyzes.
Pakistan-based militant group Jaish al-Adl, or the Army of Justice, has been involved in a number of deadly attacks on Iranian soldiers and installations in the past few years, including the February suicide attack that killed 27 Iranian security forces along the Iran-Pakistan border.
Jaish al-Adl is a Sunni militant group, which is fighting against what it says is discrimination against Sunni Muslims and ethnic Baluch in the Iranian province of Sistan and Baluchestan.
Read more:Iran border guards killed by Sunni militants on Pakistan border
The region is known as home to drug smugglers, as well as Sunni militants, both of whom regularly clash with Iranian security forces.
Iran shares a 1,000-kilometer-long border with Pakistan. Ties between the two countries have been tense over Islamabad's alleged support to anti-Shiite militant groups operating from its soil and its closeness to Iran's regional rival Saudi Arabia.
Jaish al-Adl's militant activities have been a bone of contention between the two neighbors for many years. In November last year, Iran's Interior Minister Abdelreza Rahmani-Fazli warned Pakistan that Iranian forces could launch military operations inside Pakistani territory if Islamabad didn't act against the group.
Read more:Unhappy neighbors - Afghanistan, India, Iran wary of Pakistan's 'jihadist support'
'A signal to Iran'
Experts say it is surprising that the US, which has ratcheted up pressure on Iran over theIslamic country's nuclear program, chose to classify Jaish al-Adl as a terrorist organization, as the group is clearly anti-Shiite and anti-Iran.

It is unclear why US President Donald Trump decided to proscribe the outfit. Nonetheless, security analysts say it is a positive move.
"It is a good sign that the Trump administration is not leaving any impression that it is promoting or tolerating any terrorist group, including those who seek to destabilize Iran," Fatemeh Aman from the Atlantic Council, a US-based international affairs think tank, told DW.
Experts also point out that the decision to declare Jaish al-Adl a terrorist group could be seen as a signal to Tehran from Washington that the US was ready to make concessions to the Iranian regime.
But Aman is of the view that the designation move could have been more effective if supported by other US actions. "Just targeting anti-Iran groups won't be helpful; the US needs to ensure Iran that it is not seeking regime change in the country," the analyst underlined.
Pakistan appeasement?
The US also declared the Baluchistan Liberation Army (BLA) a terrorist group. The organization is active in Pakistan's western Baluchistan province, and claims to be fighting for the rights of the ethnic Baluch people. Unlike Jaish al-Adl, the BLA has been intensely targeted by the Pakistani military, hence the US decision against the BLA was hailed by Pakistani authorities.
"Jaish al-Adl is clearly a terrorist group, based on its tactics and targets. This is a simple case of the US government giving the group the terrorist designation it deserves. Unlike the case of the BLA, which the US likely designated now because of a desire to ease tensions with Pakistan and China, this can simply be read as a US decision to designate a group that should have gotten the terror label years ago. I don't think there are necessarily any ulterior motives in this case, and we shouldn't necessarily read too much into the timing," Michael Kugelman, a South Asia expert at the Washington-based Woodrow Wilson Center for Scholars, told DW.
Read more:China consulate attack: Why Pakistan's Baloch separatists are against Beijing
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
Kugelman believes that the US move against Jaish al-Adl could put more pressure on Islamabad to take action against the group. "The designation may aggravate Iran-Pakistan ties at a moment when Islamabad is trying to maintain a neutral position in the sharpening Saudi-Iranian rivalry," the expert said.
A number of Pakistan-based armed groups have been declared terrorist by Washington since the September 11, 2001, attacks, but US officials have complained that Islamabad has not acted against them.
Read more:What is Pakistan's militancy issue all about?
Afghan peace process
Some reports claim that the banning of Jaish al-Adl probably has more to do with the Afghan peace process than the conflict in the Persian Gulf.
"Jaish al-Adl is a Sunni-Salafist outfit that can potentially provide recruits to 'Islamic State' (IS) in the Iran-Pakistan border region," a Pakistani intelligence official told DW on condition of anonymity. "Since the beginning of the Afghan peace process, there has been an understanding between all stakeholders that IS can pose a common threat to everyone. Thus, the move against Jaish al-Adl is mutually agreed upon," the official added.
The move against Jaish al-Adl and the BLA comes just weeks before Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan's visit to Washington, where he would meet President Trump on July 22. Experts say that Pakistan's role in the Afghan conflict and Washington's ongoing negotiations with the Taliban would be high on the agenda, although Islamabad's stance on the conflict with Iran could also be discussed.
Read more:Can Pakistan's Imran Khan reset ties with Iran?

Title: US approves support for Pakistan's F-16s – DW – 07/27/2019
The logistical support for the fighter jets comes days after Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan met with Donald Trump in Washington. Pakistan has promised to assist the US in reaching an Afghan political settlement.
The US State Department has approved a $125 million (€112 million) support program for Pakistan's fleet of F-16 warplanes, days after Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan met US President Donald Trump to "reset" troubled US-Pakistani ties.
"This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and national security of the United States by protecting US technology through the continued presence of US personnel that provide 24/7 end-use monitoring," the US Defense Security Cooperation Agency said.
Read more:Opinion: Khan-Trump meeting – will Islamabad deliver to Washington?
The Pakistani government had requested the US reinstate its technical support for the F-16s, which are considered essential for the country's defense.
On Monday, Khan and Trump agreed to bolster cooperation in Afghanistan to pressure Taliban militants to reach a peace deal.
Washington expects Islamabad to use its influence on the Taliban to force them to agree to a political settlement. The Taliban recently said they would visit Pakistan if Khan extends an invitation to them.
'Restoration of ties'
After coming to power, Trump halted all so-called Foreign Military Sale (FMS) support programs for Pakistan after accusing Islamabad of not helping Washington in achieving its objectives in Afghanistan.
Read more:Why Afghanistan is skeptical of Donald Trump's Pakistan outreach
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
Read more:What is Pakistan's militancy issue all about?
But lately, the US has taken a softer approach towards Pakistan and agreed to some important measures towards building confidence.
"The US-Pakistan military-to-military ties have been restored," DW correspondent Anwar Iqbal said. "The release of funds was quite unexpected though," he added.
Domestic 'crackdown'
Pro-democracy activists and rights groups in Pakistan fear US military support could embolden authorities to crack down on political opponents and independent media.
"It will raise the military's profile at home, and it may also have a direct impact on those politicians who want to reduce the army's influence in domestic politics," Iqbal said.
In recent months, the security establishment has been accused of arresting dozens of workers of thePashtun Tahafaz (Protection) Movement, or PTM, which has criticized the military's actions in the tribal regions in western and northwestern parts of the country.
Read more:Malala's father: 'Pakistan's security policies need a paradigm shift'
Military balance in the region
The US State Department on Friday also approved $670 million for India's C-17 transport planes.
"India needs this follow-on support to maintain its operational readiness and ability to provide Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HA/DR) assistance in the region," the US Defense Security Cooperation Agency said.
The agency said that the proposed sales of equipment and support "will not alter the basic military balance in the region."
Iqbal said India "will not be pleased" with the US' support for Pakistan's F-16s.
"They oppose any military ties between the US and Pakistan," he said.
Read more:Pashtun movement leader: 'Pakistani army is afraid of our popularity'
Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.

Title: US approves support for Pakistan's F-16s – DW – 07/27/2019
The logistical support for the fighter jets comes days after Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan met with Donald Trump in Washington. Pakistan has promised to assist the US in reaching an Afghan political settlement.
The US State Department has approved a $125 million (€112 million) support program for Pakistan's fleet of F-16 warplanes, days after Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan met US President Donald Trump to "reset" troubled US-Pakistani ties.
"This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and national security of the United States by protecting US technology through the continued presence of US personnel that provide 24/7 end-use monitoring," the US Defense Security Cooperation Agency said.
Read more:Opinion: Khan-Trump meeting – will Islamabad deliver to Washington?
The Pakistani government had requested the US reinstate its technical support for the F-16s, which are considered essential for the country's defense.
On Monday, Khan and Trump agreed to bolster cooperation in Afghanistan to pressure Taliban militants to reach a peace deal.
Washington expects Islamabad to use its influence on the Taliban to force them to agree to a political settlement. The Taliban recently said they would visit Pakistan if Khan extends an invitation to them.
'Restoration of ties'
After coming to power, Trump halted all so-called Foreign Military Sale (FMS) support programs for Pakistan after accusing Islamabad of not helping Washington in achieving its objectives in Afghanistan.
Read more:Why Afghanistan is skeptical of Donald Trump's Pakistan outreach
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
Read more:What is Pakistan's militancy issue all about?
But lately, the US has taken a softer approach towards Pakistan and agreed to some important measures towards building confidence.
"The US-Pakistan military-to-military ties have been restored," DW correspondent Anwar Iqbal said. "The release of funds was quite unexpected though," he added.
Domestic 'crackdown'
Pro-democracy activists and rights groups in Pakistan fear US military support could embolden authorities to crack down on political opponents and independent media.
"It will raise the military's profile at home, and it may also have a direct impact on those politicians who want to reduce the army's influence in domestic politics," Iqbal said.
In recent months, the security establishment has been accused of arresting dozens of workers of thePashtun Tahafaz (Protection) Movement, or PTM, which has criticized the military's actions in the tribal regions in western and northwestern parts of the country.
Read more:Malala's father: 'Pakistan's security policies need a paradigm shift'
Military balance in the region
The US State Department on Friday also approved $670 million for India's C-17 transport planes.
"India needs this follow-on support to maintain its operational readiness and ability to provide Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HA/DR) assistance in the region," the US Defense Security Cooperation Agency said.
The agency said that the proposed sales of equipment and support "will not alter the basic military balance in the region."
Iqbal said India "will not be pleased" with the US' support for Pakistan's F-16s.
"They oppose any military ties between the US and Pakistan," he said.
Read more:Pashtun movement leader: 'Pakistani army is afraid of our popularity'
Every evening, DW's editors send out a selection of the day's hard news and quality feature journalism. You can sign up to receive it directly here.

Title: Why Afghans are skeptical of Trump's Pakistan outreach – DW – 07/23/2019
US President Donald Trump discussed the Afghan conflict with Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan on Monday at the White House. Both the Trump-Khan meeting and some of US president's comments didn't go down well in Kabul.
The 19-year-long Afghan conflict was the main topic during the meeting between US president Donald Trump and Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan on Monday.
Read more:Opinion: Khan-Trump meeting – will Islamabad deliver to Washington?
Washington wants Islamabad to help resolve the conflict, so that US troops can exit the war-torn country. Also, the US wants to ensure that a post-withdrawal setup would not pose a threat to its interests in the region.
Pakistani Prime Minister Khan, and the accompanying army chief General Qamar Bajwa, need US' financial assistance amid their country's worsening debt crisis.
But Afghan authorities have long been critical of Pakistan's alleged support to Islamist terrorists that launch attacks on local and foreign troops, as well as civilians, on Afghan soil. Trump has expressed similar views in the past.
Pakistan, experts say, wants a bigger role in the future of Afghanistan, as it has a considerable influence over the Taliban. All this is being watched with a lot of skepticism in Kabul.
Read more:Imran Khan's US visit — Afghan peace to dominate talks with Donald Trump

Trump angers Afghans
On top of everything, Trump made a controversial remark about Afghanistan, which angered Kabul even further.
Talking to the media next to Khan, the US president said that he could "easily win the [Afghan] war but he did not want to kill 10 million people."
The comment was possibly a message to Pakistan and other regional players that although the US is seeking assistance from other countries to resolve the conflict, this should not be mistaken as a weakness.
But the office of Afghan President Ashraf Ghani swiftly condemned Trump's remarks and sought clarification from Trump.
"Talking about the possibility of dropping more bombs and killing millions of people does not serve any good purpose," Faiz Mohammad Zaland, a lecturer at Kabul University, told DW.
"Afghanistan maybe poor and war-ravaged but no superpower has been able to wipe it off the face of the earth," he added.
But there are few who think that Trump's remarks are being misinterpreted. Sadiq Patman, a former advisor to President Ghani, believes Trump only meant to highlight the significance of peace in Afghanistan.
"Americans were able to remove the Taliban regime in a matter of days. They did the same in Iraq. Now we should come together and make the peace process a success," Patman told DW.
Read more:Kabul University hit by deadly bomb blast
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
Can Pakistan be trusted?
Since coming to power in 2016, Trump has made no secret of his desire to withdraw troops from Afghanistan as soon as he can. His administration has started direct talks with Taliban in Qatar, where the militant group has a political office.
Washington expects Pakistan to use its influence on the Taliban and force them to agree to a cease-fire. Many security analysts say that Pakistan's powerful army helped create the Taliban in the early 1990s, and that it continues to support at least some factions of the group.
Both Trump and Khan expressed hope about the progress intalks with the Taliban. Khan even said that the international community has never been so close to a peace deal with the insurgents.
"And I hope that in the coming days we will be able to urge the Taliban to speak to the Afghan government and come to a political solution," he added.
Despite these optimistic statements, Ahmad Saidi, a former Afghan diplomat, sees major challenges for the peace process in the coming months. "Pakistan has made such promises in the past and did not deliver on them, so there is no guarantee that this time it would be any different," Saidi told DW.
"Also, the Taliban don't always obey Pakistan, therefore Khan cannot make sure that they talk to President Ghani's government," he added.
But some Afghan analysts are cautiously optimistic about Pakistan's support for the peace process. "Khan was accompanied by his military chief to the US. It indicates that this time both Washington and Islamabad mean business," Patman said.
"But Khan now has to demonstrate that his government can deliver on his promises, otherwise relations between Islamabad and Washington will get worse again," Patman added.
Read more:Is Pakistan's war-ravaged northwestern region turning against the military?
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
Is Afghan government being sidelined?
The Trump-Khan summit in Washington has raised concerns in Kabul and Afghanistan's political circles.
"While the Afghan government supports the US efforts for ensuring peace in Afghanistan, the government underscores that foreign heads of state cannot determine Afghanistan's fate in absence of the Afghan leadership," Ghani's office stated.
Ghani is particularly worried about his isolation from the ongoing peace talks between the Taliban and the US. What makes the Afghan president more concerned, experts say, is the possibility that Islamabad convinces the Taliban to engage with opposition politicians and not the elected Afghan government.
"Such a scenario will only prolong the Afghan war because without the Afghan government's direct involvement, Islamabad would be competing with Kabul," said Saidi.
Read more:Afghanistan: President Ghani seeks to restore his legitimacy with a Loya Jirga
There are already signs of opposition to an Afghan peace deal with an increasing Pakistani involvement. Last week, former Afghan President Hamid Karza told a peace conference in Kabul that he was in full support of peace but "could not accept a deal between two countries" on Afghanistan's future.
"Trump wants to leave Afghanistan at any cost and wants Pakistan to act as its agent," Kabul University lecturer Zaland said, adding that such an agreement could only lead to more bloodshed in Afghanistan and make it more unstable.

Title: Will Islamabad deliver to Washington? – DW – 07/23/2019
Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan's meeting with US President Donald Trump went smoothly. But the future of US-Pakistan ties depend on Islamabad's cooperation in bringing peace to Afghanistan, says Michael Kugelman.
Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan's White House meeting with US President Donald Trump has come and gone. And not surprisingly, the most headline-grabbing moment of Khan's visit came when Trump made one of his signature off-the-cuff remarks.
In an exchange with the press, Trump said he would bewilling to mediate the India-Pakistan dispute over Kashmir. It was a remark that surely didn't go down well with America's key partner India, which wants no external mediation whatsoever.
Read more:Kulbhushan Jadhav: UN court orders Pakistan to review Indian 'spy' death sentence
Still, this bizarre episode aside, the Trump-Khan summit — which lasted several hours — appears to have gone swimmingly. It included not just a cordial one-on-one meeting, but also other high-level exchanges that included a working lunch featuring several Trump administration officials.
Consequently, a relationship that had taken a deep plunge in previous months has resurfaced, and it now has the opportunity to be reenergized. Five key questions will help determine the relationship's trajectory in the aftermath of Khan's meeting with Trump.
Read more:Imran Khan's US visit — Afghan peace to dominate talks with Donald Trump
Will the goodwill generated during Khan's visit endure?
A constant challenge for US-Pakistan relations is a lack of trust. Though the two countries enjoyed a fairly strong Cold War-era partnership, the relationship in more recent years has been beset by tensions that have inhibited trust.
From Pakistan's refusal to speak truthfully about the development of its nuclear weapons program and its ties to terrorists to America's covert activities in Pakistan, there is lots of baggage. For the relationship to capitalize on the momentum set in motion by Khan's visit, more high-level exchanges — and more dialogue as a whole — are of the essence. However, for the Trump administration, which favors transactional diplomacy over strategic dialogue, that's a mighty tall order.
Read more:Trump is good for Afghanistan, tough on Pakistan, say experts
Will Islamabad scale up its support for the peace process in Afghanistan?
Afghanistan was undoubtedly a core component of Trump's meeting with Khan. For Washington, getting Islamabad to step up its assistance in current peace talks with the Taliban is a prime objective.
Read more:Were Afghan peace talks in Qatar a success?

Will the Pakistanis succeed in convincing the Taliban to agree to a cease-fire and to direct negotiations with the Afghan government? These are demands the Taliban has so far categorically refused to accept. If Islamabad makes headway in this effort, the US-Pakistan relationship will receive a huge boost — and an expansion of the relationship, into issues like trade and investment, could be in the offing.
However, that's an ambitious ask to make of Pakistan. To be sure, Islamabad wields leverage over the Taliban, thanks to the safe havens it provides to the group's leadership. Still, the insurgents are negotiating from a position of strength; they are waging robust offensives and hold more territory than ever before. They have little incentive to listen to anyone, including their Pakistani patron.
Read more:Pashtun movement leader: 'Pakistani army is afraid of our popularity'
Will Washington offer some small economic inducements to Pakistan?
The Trump administration has dangled the possibility of greater trade and economic cooperation with Pakistan if sufficient progress is made in the areas of peace talks in Afghanistan and Islamabad's counterterrorism efforts. With Pakistan's economy a mess, any new US economic and trade support would be a major boon for a nation struggling through a serious balance of payments crisis.
The Pakistanis have come to Washington ready to talk business; its large delegation includes Khan's commerce adviser, and Khan's itinerary includes meetings with top corporations. Some type of US-initiated confidence-building measure — even something relatively modest, such as calling for an increased frequency of meetings under the Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA) — could go a long way and may encourage more Pakistani cooperation in Afghanistan.

Will there be a spoiler?
One reason for the fragility of US-Pakistan relations is that it doesn't take much to set back new progress. For years, the biggest threat has been a mass casualty terrorist attack in Afghanistan — particularly one that hits Americans or American targets — or in India, a key US partner. If such an attack happens and Washington concludes it originated in Pakistan, and was orchestrated by a group with ties to the Pakistani security establishment, then the relationship would suffer another blow. It would also exacerbate one of the core tension points in bilateral relations: Washington's view that Pakistan has not taken robust and irreversible steps against Pakistan-based, Islamabad-aligned terror groups that threaten American — and Indian — lives and interests.
Can divergent expectations be reconciled?
At the end of the day, Pakistan's immediate-term expectations of the relationship are more ambitious than those of the United States. Islamabad wants a complete reset and broadening of bilateral ties; Washington, at least for now, mainly wants more Pakistani assistance in Afghanistan and action against terrorists.
How the two sides address this disconnect in expectations will go a long way toward determining whether a relationship that's long been up and down experiences a new high — or takes another tumble.
Read more:Pakistan arrests alleged Mumbai attacks mastermind on terror charges

Title: Pakistan's tribal areas hold an unprecedented election – DW – 07/19/2019
The first-ever democratic election is being held in the restive Pakistani tribal region on the border with Afghanistan. Will democracy help stabilize an area long considered to be a base for Islamist extremists?
Pakistan's tribal region is undertaking its first-ever democratic election on Saturday, with newly formed districts sending representatives to a provincial assembly for the first time.
This loosely organized region onPakistan's northwest frontier with Afghanistanwas formerly called the Federally Administrated Tribal Areas (FATA). This rural mountainous area has long been seen by Washington and the West as a launching pad into Afghanistan for Islamist insurgents.
In May 2018, the districts in FATA were merged into Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, ending 150 years of draconian colonial-era governance under a system called "frontier crimes regulation."
Now there is hope that bringing these areas into a democratic political process will promote stability.
However, the tribal region, home to 6 million people, has always ruled by tribal law, with councils of tribal elders holding the real political power. Whether elected representatives can merge democratic governance with traditional social mores remains to be seen.
There are also conflicts between political forces commanding local loyalty andPakistan's politically powerful military.
Election troubles for the Pashtuns
Although people in the region are eager to participate in the election, there have been problems with democratic representation in the run-up to election day.
The Pashtuns are an ethnic group native to northwest Pakistan and the northeastern Afghanistan. In the past decade, tens of thousands of Pashtuns civilians in the region have been killed, and millions displaced, by the Taliban insurgency and military operations.
The Pashtun Tahaffuz Movement (PTM) is a civil rights movement that has widespread support among Pashtuns in the region, and espouses secular and liberal values. However, the Pakistani government and the country's all-powerful military are coming down hard on the PTM.
In May, two PTM lawmakers were arrested during a clash between PTM protesters and soldiers at a checkpoint in North Waziristan that left 13 people dead. The military claimed that the protesters opened fire first, but video footage purportedly showed that they were unarmed.
Since the violent clash, the PTM is experiencing a violent crackdown. Dozens of their top leaders have been arrested and their supporters are facing immense pressure from the government.
Pakistan's Election Commission says that the PTM is not a registered political party, although they have registered candidates for the election.
Manzoor Pashteen, the movement's leader, believes that the Pakistani military is behind the crackdown.
Read more:Pakistan's Manzoor Pashteen: 'Pashtuns are fed up with war'
The PTM gained prominence last January after protest broke out over the extrajudicial killing of a young Pashtun man in the southern port city of Karachi. The movement is campaigning to end extrajudicial killings. It also conducts landmine clearance operations and opposes use of military violence against civilians.
This week during a committee session, a senator from that Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N), criticized the lack of media coverage for the election.
"The media is showing no interest in the first ever election in the tribal areas, in this situation we cannot trust this election will be transparent," said Senator Pervaiz Rashid
"The PTM leadership is not allowed to appear in the media, two of its elected leaders Mohsin Dawar and Ali Wazir were arrested, and a crackdown is going on against their workers."
Read more:Pashtun movement leader: 'Pakistani army is afraid of our popularity'
A tense environment
Due to the tense security situation in the region, a military presence is planned for the polling stations. However, the move has stirred reservations from opposition parties who are saying that the election results will be manipulated in favor of Prime Minister Imran Khan's ruling Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI, Movement for Justice) party.
Imran Mukhlis Wazir, a candidate from Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) in South Waziristan, said he was arrested last month after he spoke out against discrimination against opposition parties.
"The opposition parties are discriminated against and facing hurdles while government party has been promoted," he told DW.
Ayaz Wazir, a former ambassador hailing from the tribal areas, told DW that the people there want the change that they were promised after the FATA merger last year.
Read more:Pakistan: "Media should be accountable to the public, not the government"
"They are not getting the rights that they were promised after the merger. And no political leader from any party came in the area to campaign due to security threats, there is a tense environment and people think the elections are rigged already."
Rahim Yousafzai, a political analyst based in Peshawar, told DW that some political parties have raised questions about the military presence at polling stations as a method to engineer results.
Yousafzai also said that campaigning has been tightly controlled due to security threats.
"There has been no political activity seen in the area," he said, adding that the voter turn out for the regional election is expected to remain low.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video

Title: US peace deal with Taliban, al-Qaida supporters will be harmful
Interested in blogging for timesofindia.com? We will be happy to have you on board as a blogger, if you have the knack for writing. Just drop in a mail attoiblogs@timesinternet.inwith a brief bio and we will get in touch with you.
TOI Quick Edits are written by a team of seasoned journalists from the Times of India's Edit Page and TOI-Online who respond to important news stories as they develop. The team comprises senior journalists with wide-ranging interests who debate and opine on the news and issues of the day.LESS...  MORE
The UNSC in its latest report has revealed that the global Islamist terror group al-Qaida continues to maintain close cooperation with the regional militant outfit Taliban in Afghanistan. The Haqqani network, the deadliest and the strongest faction of the Taliban, has been working in tandem with al-Qaida which is keen to strengthen itself in the provinces closer to Tajikistan, according to the report.
This is quite alarming given that the US is in the middle of negotiating a Pakistan-mediated peace deal with the Taliban so that it can withdraw from Afghanistan as soon as possible.


It is well known that the Haqqani network shares a very close relationship with Pakistan’s ISI. If the agreement comes through, the region will essentially be handed over to Pakistan’s Army and ISI which to begin with, have been Taliban’s benefactors.
After the Taliban took over in Afghanistan in 1996, it carried out massacres of Afghan civilians after imposing radical Islamic rule in Afghanistan. Thousands were killed and many thousands fled the country during the Taliban era. It was during the Taliban’s rule that the al-Qaida was able to find safe haven in the region’s mountains and caves. Finally, it was under the Taliban that Osama bin Laden was able to hatch the 9/11 conspiracy and send out suicide squads to execute the terror attacks against the US.
President Trump must reconsider all the options before making a decision on Afghanistan in haste.
Also read: Al-Qaida remains in close cooperation with Taliban in Afghanistan, says UN report


What Rahul isn’t saying
Delhi CM’s statement highlights loyalty dilemma in Indian parties
Rise above biases to a higher way of thinking
Bail & more
Onam has now become a universal festival
A note of enlightenment to enrich your thoughts
Adulteration central
There is no value in remembering god in old age
Peaceful conflict resolution is the way forward
18% plus more
Interested in blogging for timesofindia.com? We will be happy to have you on board as a blogger, if you have the knack for writing. Just drop in a mail attoiblogs@timesinternet.inwith a brief bio and we will get in touch with you.
TOI Edit Page,Voices
Erratica,TOI Edit Page,Tracking Indian Communities
Juggle-Bandhi,TOI Edit Page
TOI Edit Page
Copyright © 2024 Bennett, Coleman & Co. Ltd. All rights reserved. For reprint rights: Times Syndication Service

Title: Al-Qaida remains in close cooperation with Taliban in Afghanistan, says UN report - Times of India
9 most unique and rare birds in the world
10 foods that contain highest protein per 100 grams
8 Indian cities where non-vegetarian food is banned
How to make South-Indian style Chicken Pakora
10 lines from Shakespeare's sonnets that are profound life lessons
Most beautiful hill stations in the Western Ghats for a serene vacation
8 yoga poses that can reduce waist size effectively
7 home remedies to remove yellow stains from teeth
10 books that will help transform your life in the next 3 months
Ganesh Chaturthi 2024: 10 South Indian dishes to make for Lord Ganesha

Title: JeM, LeT working together with Afghan insurgent groups post Balakot airstrike: Intelligence inputs – India TV
JeM chief Masood Azhar and LeT founder Hafeez Saeed
After the IAF airstrike held in Balakot on February 26, the Pakistan-based terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba have collaborated with Afghan insurgent groups like Taliban and Haqqani Network, revealed intelligence inputs.
This revelation came after the arrest of JeM terrorists Sediq Akbar and Ataullah by Afghan National Security Force from Jalalabad earlier this year. It has also revealed that the Jaish chief Masood Azhar was offered shelter in Afghanistan by Haqqani Network. However, Masood feels safe under the Pakistan Army's protection in Bahawalpur.
The IAF jets attacked the Jaish-e-Mohammed terror camp in Balakot after February 14 attack by a suicide bomber on a CRPF convoy in Pulwama in Jammu and Kashmir.
According to the intelligence, the Pak terror groups are shifting their base in Afghanistan near the international border in areas including Kandahar and Kunar, to avoid blacklisting of Pakistan by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) later this year.
Pakistan remains in the grey list of FATF, a global terror financing watchdog which has asked Islamabad to take steps to curb money laundering and terror financing. India wanted to negatively impact the neighbouring country and to be placed on the blacklist.
Intelligence sources reveal that the Indian consulate in Kandahar has been kept on high alert against Taliban attack as their shelter in Afghanistan is posing threat to Indian diplomatic establishments, including the Indian Embassy in Kabul.
A report from the US Parliament had revealed earlier this year that the US considers LeT as one of the greatest threats to Washington and its allied forces in war-torn Afghanistan, where at least 300 fighters from the terror group are active.
ALSO READ |Masood Azhar among 10 injured in blast at Pakistan hospital, no official confirmation; Twitter reacts
ALSO READ |Terror group Hizbul, Lashkar and Jaish's chain of command revealed for first time ever | Exclusive
WATCH |PM Modi speaks about terrorist Masood Azhar in an exclusive interaction withRajat Sharma

Top News
Tirupati laddus row: Devotee claims tobacco found in prasadam, TTD denies reports
Tirupati's Laddu Row: Spat between Pawan Kalyan, Prakash Raj continues
Ishan Kishan included, Dhruv Jurel, Yash Dayal picked in Rest of India's squad for Irani Cup
Related World News
Israel's deadliest airstrikes on Lebanon kill 558 including, children and women: Health Ministry
Harini Amarasuriya named as the new Prime Minister of Sri Lanka | Who is she?
Trump accuses US Justice Department, FBI of 'mishandling, downplaying' second assassination bid case
China 'firmly supports' Lebanon in safeguarding security as Israel launches airstrikes on Hezbollah
Israeli strikes kill 492 in Lebanon; Netanyahu says 'war not with citizens, but Hezbollah'
Latest News
BREAKING: Israeli airstrike on Beirut kills Hezbollah commander Ibrahim Quabaisi | Report
'Suicide capsule': In a first, woman dies in Switzerland within minutes of pressing 'death button'
Tirupati's Laddu Row: Spat between Pawan Kalyan, Prakash Raj continues
Muqabla: Badlapur encounter true or fake?
© 2009-2024 Independent News Service.  All rights reserved.
Muqabla: Badlapur encounter true or fake?
As tensions between Israel & Hezbollah rise, what will be socio-economic impact of a full-blown war?
Yoga, 24 September 2024: 4 'white' enemies in the path of long life...How to get a healthy life?
PM Modi at UN 'Summit of the Future': Poverty to Global South, Top 5 takeaways from PM Modi's speech
Israel-Hezbollah Conflict: IDF bombards over 300 Hezbollah targets in Lebanon, several dead
Tirupati laddu row: Centre issues show cause notice to ghee supplier
Punjab govt conducts major administrative reshuffle, transfers 124 IAS, PCS officers
OPINION | Encounters: Are They Caste Based?
Breaking News, September 24 | LIVE updates
Aaj Ki Baat: Full episode, September 23, 2024
BREAKING: Israeli airstrike on Beirut kills Hezbollah commander Ibrahim Quabaisi | Report
'Suicide capsule': In a first, woman dies in Switzerland within minutes of pressing 'death button'
Bangladesh govt chief Yunus evades questions from Indian media in New York | Video goes viral
Israel's deadliest airstrikes on Lebanon kill 558 including 50 children, 94 women: Health Ministry
Harini Amarasuriya named as the new Prime Minister of Sri Lanka | Who is she?
Tirupati's Laddu Row: Spat between Pawan Kalyan, Prakash Raj continues
Sohum Shah’s Tumbbad surpasses Thalapathy Vijay's Ghilli, becomes highest-grossing Indian re-release
Did you know Omar Abdullah had THIS objection to Ranbir-Deepika starrer 'Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani'?
Vashu Bhagnani, Jackky Bhagnani accuse Ali Abbas Zafar for of siphoning funds
Maharaj actor Shalini Pandey joins Dhanush's 'Idli Kadai', begins shooting in Hyderabad
Ishan Kishan included, Dhruv Jurel, Yash Dayal picked in Rest of India's squad for Irani Cup
Ajinkya Rahane to lead, Shreyas Iyer, Shardul Thakur in as Mumbai announce squad for Irani Cup
On This Day in 2007: MS Dhoni-led team India won inaugural T20 World Cup edition beating Pakistan
First time in more than 20 years! Nicholas Pooran touches massive six-hitting milestone in 2024
Virat Kohli on cusp of breaking Sachin Tendulkar and Don Bradman's records vs Bangladesh in 2nd Test
iPhone 16 Pro faces touchscreen problems, leaves buyers fuming
Airtel introduces 3 new data plans, offering 1GB of data for Rs 7
Telegram intensifies crackdown on illegal content following CEO Durov's arrest
Samsung Galaxy M55s 5G starting at Rs 19,999 launched in India: Check specs, availability
Dyson OnTrac headphones priced at Rs 44,900 launched in India: Check specs, features
How new Jammu and Kashmir assembly will be different from earlier ones in terms of power?
Israel-Hezbollah tensions peak: What will be socio-economic impact of full-blown war? | EXPLAINED
Jammu and Kashmir Assembly Elections: How many candidates in Phase 2 are facing criminal cases?
When was last 'One Nation, One Election' held in India and who broke the cycle? DETAILS
One Nation, One Election: Why is Centre planning to implement it, what are its benefits? | Explained
Fake registration drive: Tax authorities uncover over 10,000 bogus firms under GST across country
Stock markets early trade: Sensex crosses 85,000-mark for first time, Nifty hits record high
EPFO withdrawal: How to withdraw money from PF account without employer’s approval? Check process
Sensex, Nifty touch all-time closing high levels amid strong foreign fund inflows
Will UPI users discontinue service if transaction fee is imposed? Check what survey reveals
Suffering from back pain? It can be a sign of heart attack, know other symptoms
Fed up of wearing glasses all day long? Follow THESE natural remedies to improve your eyesight
Fatty liver causes several serious health issues, know how to keep the organ healthy
Say goodbye to dirty cholesterol buildup in veins with THESE 5 home remedies
Cold and cough due to weather transition? Consume THIS Ayurvedic powder to get relief