Title: Afghan Governor Says Taliban Fighting IS In Eastern Province
Print
ASADABAD, Afghanistan -- The escalating fighting between the hard-line Afghan Taliban and ultra-radical Islamic State (IS) has now reached a new frontline in Afghanistan.
According to a provincial governor, there were several casualties in ongoing clashes between the Taliban and IS militants in the eastern mountainous province of Nuristan this week.
Governor Hafiz Abdul Qayum told Radio Free Afghanistan that on June 27 scores of Taliban fighters continued to surround the village of their renegade commander, Noora.
“Noora was once a Taliban commander but has joined Daesh,” Qayum said of the fighting in the remote Qal-e Gal village in Waygal district of Nuristan, referring to IS by its local name, Daesh. “Three of Noora’s female relatives were injured in the fighting and one of his loyalists has been killed so far.”
Locals say Noora fled his house in Qal-e Gal but Taliban fighters continue to surround the entire village in the hope of forcing him to surrender.
“The Taliban have torched two houses [of his relatives and loyalists] in the besieged village of Qal-e Gal,” Qayum told Radio Free Afghanistan. “The Taliban and IS fighters continue to clash periodically as the Taliban push to capture Noora through door-to-door searches.”
The Taliban and IS have not commented on the fighting.
Lawmakers in Nuristan recently said IS is carving a new sanctuary in the region by recruiting from within its mountainous valleys.
Maulvi Ahmadullah Mohid, a Nuristan representative in the Afghan Parliament told Radio Free Afghanistan late last month that IS was active in five out of eight Nuristan districts, including Mandol, Duab, Nurgram, Waygal, and Wama. All are Alpine forested regions that provide ideal territory for guerrilla warfare.
“Their activities are gathering momentum every day. IS militants now virtually rule the regions outside government control alongside the Taliban,” Mohid said.
IS began pushing into Nuristan after Afghan and U.S. officials repeatedly claimed that an IS sanctuary in the eastern province of Nangarhar is rapidly shrinking because of relentless military operations.
IS first emerged in Nangarhar, nearly 100 kilometers south of Nuristan, in early 2015. The group soon overran several districts in the province along its eastern border with Pakistan. But Afghan and U.S. military officials now say the insurgents have lost most of the territories they once overran.
Last week, Afghan officials claimed to have recaptured an important tunnel complex from IS in Nangarhar. The warren of caves in the Tora Bora region once served as a hideout for Al-Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden.
IS’s emergence in Afghanistan has met strong Taliban opposition. In June 2015, the late Taliban leader Mullah Akhtar Muhammad MansurwarnedIS leader Abu Bakar Al-Baghdadi that they would be “forced to react to defend our achievements.”
Since then, militants from the two organizations have frequently clashed across Afghanistan while theircovert warinvolving targeted assassinations has also extended into Pakistan.
Abubakar Siddique wrote this story based on Radio Free Afghanistan correspondent Rohullah Anwari’s reporting from Kunar, Afghanistan.
Rohullah Anwari is a correspondent for RFE/RL's Radio Free Afghanistan in Kunar.
Abubakar Siddique, a journalist for RFE/RL's Radio Azadi, specializes in the coverage of Afghanistan and Pakistan. He is the author of The Pashtun Question: The Unresolved Key To The Future Of Pakistan And Afghanistan.



Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty © 2024 RFE/RL, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Title: Daesh Declares War on Taliban in Afghanistan - World news - Tasnim News Agency
According to Tasnim dispatches, a Daesh commander, in a statement, said Taliban militants are betraying Islam.
The Daesh commander said the Taliban members and its supporters should be killed everywhere and their properties should be seized.
The statement came after Afghan Taliban Spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid recently told the Tasnim News Agency that the group is resolved to target Daesh terrorists.
Speaking to Tasnim in August 2016, Mujahid had also pledged the “Islamic Emirate’s” (Taliban’s) ceaseless fight against Daesh “in cooperation with the Afghan nation”.
The “Islamic Emirate” has launched a campaign against occupation across Afghanistan, Mujahid said at the time, stressing that the Taliban is aware of the threat of Daesh and “in cooperation with the nation, has prevented the terrorist group from gaining a foothold in Afghanistan.”
The presence of Daesh forces in Afghanistan is limited to a small area in the east and they are living in a dire situation near the border, the spokesman said, adding that most of their members are non-Afghans and “have nothing to do with the Afghan people.”
No Daesh fighters are present in other areas of Afghanistan, and the Taliban will not allow such presence, he stressed.


Title: Password Protected Site


Title: Afghanistan: Taliban attacks security post, 10 policemen dead - India Today
Listen to Story
The Taliban has attacked a security post in western Afghanistan, killing at least 10 policemen and wounding another three, officials have said.
Jelani Farhad, spokesman for the governor of the western Herat province, said the Taliban attacked late Saturday, setting off a gun battle in which five insurgents were killed.
No one immediately claimed responsibility of the attack.
The Taliban has steadily expanded its reach across Afghanistan since US and international forces formally concluded their combat mission at the end of 2014, switching to a support and counter-terrorism role.
In an address Sunday marking the start of Eid-Ul-Fitr, a major Muslim holiday, President Ashraf Ghani reiterated his call for the Taliban to return to peace talks.
ALSO READ:
Pakistan's ISI behind Kabul blast which killed 90: Afghanistan govt to India Today
Kabul bomb blast: Afghanistan blames Haqqani network and Pakistan's ISI for attack
ALSO WATCH:10 killed as Taliban terrorists attack checkpost near India-Afghanistan friendship dam
Published By:AtMigrationPublished On:Jun 25, 2017--- ENDS ---

Title: Afghanistan and the New Great Game | The Daily Star
Assembled by Meghna, three brand new KIA SUVs hit the road
Grieving family dealt double blow by barbaric viral video
Hilsa export to India allowed for ‘greater interests’
AL man lynched in Laxmipur
The security situation in Afghanistan is getting worse by the day. Almost every week there are terrorist attacks on government installations or civilians with large number of casualties. As the civil war continues and number of deaths rise, Western and regional stakeholders are deeply worried and realigning themselves in Afghanistan.
The casualty figures in 2017 so far are indeed quite worrying. The United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) report released in April 25, 2017 disclosed that in the first quarter of 2017 (Jan-Mar) it documented 2,181 civilian casualties — 715 dead and 1,466 injured. In another report compiled by the Institute for Conflict Management (ICM) at least 240 civilians have been killed in Afghanistan between April 1 and June 9, 2017. The Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) released figures that between January 1, 2017 and February 24, 2017 at least 804 of the Afghan National Defense Security Forces (ANDSF) were killed and 1,328 wounded.
Besieged and exasperated Afghan President Ashraf Ghani said at least 20 different international terrorist groups were operating inside the country. The most prominent but opposing groups are the Afghan Taliban and the Islamic State. The Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) welcomed disgruntled Taliban fighters in its ranks and have become a dangerous force.
ISKP emerged simultaneously as US forces began withdrawing from Afghanistan in 2015. It has drastically changed the strategic landscape and war dynamics in Afghanistan as regional alliances began shifting. What is baffling is that ISKP and Taliban are contesting to gain control of territory. The Afghan government controlled over 71 percent of territory in January 2016. It now controls only 60 percent of the territory. The "contested areas" increased from 23 percent in January 2016 to 29 percent in February 2017. While Taliban-controlled areas are scattered, the ISKP is in control of areas in northern Afghanistan.
The Taliban's declared political agenda is to drive out all foreign troops and regain state power it lost following US invasion in 2001. It does not have any ambitions beyond Afghanistan. But ISKP is trying to expand its fundamentalist contagion in Central Asia and the South Asian region.
Pakistan's ISI created the Taliban and has used it to destabilise the "unfriendly" governments in Kabul. Pakistan, having deep strategic interest in Afghanistan, always played a double game with Kabul through its influence over the Taliban. But now Pakistan is faced with a bigger enemy — the Islamic State.
Afghanistan-Pakistan-India relations are an extremely complicated narrative. India has always tried to reach Afghanistan over the head of Pakistan and develop close strategic relations with Kabul. In May 2017, Delhi offered USD 1 billion to Kabul as economic assistance. However, India is the only major power that does not have any communication channel with the Taliban or ISKP.
Tentative US attempts to contact the Taliban in the past have not produced any positive results. Even after 16 years of Operation Enduring Freedom there is no peace in sight. Despite all the tall talk President Donald Trump has not come out with a strategy on resolving the Afghan conflict. At a Senate hearing on June 13, 2017 US Defence Secretary James Mattis said, "We are not winning in Afghanistan right now." US Commander General John Nicholson described the situation in an Orwellian phrase, "The war in Afghanistan is at a 'stalemate'." Trump however, authorised Mattis to increase the level of troops and US is sending additional 4,000 troops to break the stalemate.
Russia, after being ousted from the country in 1988, has developed links with the Taliban. Moscow has always called Taliban a terrorist organisation and supported the Northern Alliance. But now with the presence of ISIL, Russia has changed its position, primarily because it does not want Central Asian Republics to come under the influence of ISKP extremism. Russia is said to be supplying arms to the Taliban. One wonders whether these are to undermine US mission in Afghanistan or to contain ISKP. Evidently, Moscow does not want to lose out in case the Taliban capture Kabul.
Though (Shiite) Iran supports the Ashraf Ghani government, it has also developed clandestine links over the past few years with the Taliban. The presence of (Sunni) ISKP on its borders is bad news for Tehran. Besides, Iran has always opposed US presence in Afghanistan, but since the Taliban fights US forces it is only natural that Tehran would maintain links with the Taliban.
China while assisting Kabul in fighting terrorism has maintained links with the Taliban. China certainly does not want ISKP's fundamentalism spreading to the Xinjiang province bordering Afghanistan. China wants to help resolve the conflict as it has invested billions of dollars in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Saudi Arabia which has been deeply involved in Afghanistan maintains dual tracks — supporting President Ashraf Ghani and funding the Taliban.
The National Unity Government with two heads — President Ashraf Ghani and CEO Abdullah Abdullah — has made it weak, ineffective and corrupt. Taliban has persistently refused to talk to the Ghani government. The economy is in a poor state. The country has been plagued by large-scale looting of mineral resources by all the major powers involved in Afghanistan. This mineral looting, amounting to hundreds of millions of dollars per year, denying royalties to the government and illegal drug trade have created widespread corruption, entrenched warlords and have encouraged Taliban to grow stronger.
All the powers know that there is no military solution to this conflict. Peace will not come to Afghanistan as long as the stakeholders pull Afghanistan in different directions. The fear is with major powers playing the Great Game and Taliban and ISKP growing stronger, will Afghanistan become another Syria?
The writer is former Ambassador and Secretary.
তথ্য সংশোধন বা সংযোজন করার জন্য আগামী ৬ অক্টোবর পর্যন্ত এ তালিকা সবার জন্য উন্মুক্ত থাকবে।

Title: No title found


Title: The Wire: The Wire News India, Latest News,News from India, Politics, External Affairs, Science, Economics, Gender and Culture


Title: Is US relocating ISIS terrorists to Afghanistan, Central Asia? | The Iran Project


Title: No title found


Title: 
	ISIS shifts focus to Afghanistan, threatens central Asia 

EnglishVietnameseChineseFrenchGermanIndonesianJapaneseKhmerKoreanLaotianRussianSpanishThai
General Andrey Novikov warned that ISIS seeks to subdue some Taliban militants and other local extremist groups to create a new power base in Afghanistan and extend its influence to central Asia. Addressing two UN Security Council committees on Friday, Novikov said ISIS is trying to introduce a new extremist and terrorist model from the battle zones in Syria and Iraq to the central Asian region. He emphasized that the Taliban’s increasing operations in north Afghanistan may indicate that some Taliban commanders are ready to join ISIS.
VOVVOVworldISISshiftfocusAfghanistanthreatencentral Asia
Online service permit: 2113/GP-BTTTT issued on December 6, 2011Director:Pho Cam Hoa
Deputy Director: Nguyen Thu Hoa

Title: ISIS declares WAR on Taliban for 'betraying Islam' - Daily Star
Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email
We have more newsletters
Never miss any of the fun stuff. Get the biggest stories and wackiest takes from the Daily Star, including our special WTF Wednesday email
We have more newsletters
The terrorist group accused its blood-crazed rival of being "hypocrites and stooges of the unbelievers".
ISIS has now declared war in Afghanistan over the dispute and renewed warnings to kill its militants, members and supporters in the war-torn nation.
A commander for the murderous cult said properties belonging to anyone associated with the group should be seized.
Reports suggest ISIS forces are currently restricted to a small area in east Afghanistan and are keen to expand.
But it is said to be struggling and rapidly losing soldiers.
It comes after Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said it will continue to fight ISIS in "cooperation with the Afghan nation".
He added it has launched a campaign against ISIS occupation in Afghanistan, adding it has "prevented the terrorist group from gaining a foothold in Afghanistan", reports Iranian news agency Tasnim.
ISIS has claimed responsibility for a string of terror attacks in Britain this year.
In March Khalid Masood killed four people after ramming his car into bystanders before stabbing PC Keith Palmer.
On May 22 Salman Abedi killed 22 in Manchester when he detonated a nail bomb at an Ariana Grande concert, before three jihadis killed eight during a knife rampage in London Bridge.
The latest developments come after a Brit general told of how ISIS terrorists are being killed "so quickly they cannot fight back".
It was also recently revealed how Lee Rigby murderer Michael Adebolajo is reportedly radicalising fellow inmates into ISIS soldiers who "fall under his spell".


Title: No title found


Title: Brainwashed children murder prisoners in twisted ISIS film | Daily Mail Online
ByJulian Robinson for MailOnline
Published:04:01 EDT, 26 June 2017|Updated:04:47 EDT, 26 June 2017

69
Viewcomments

Brainwashed children brandishing handguns shoot prisoners in the back of the head in a brutal newISISexecution video.
The two boys, both dressed in black, force their captives to kneel in front of them in front of the doorway of a building inAfghanistan.
Footage shows them aggressively pulling back the heads of the two terrified 'spies' before the younger of the two jihadists starts ranting at the camera. They then point their handguns at their prisoners and carry out the killings.
The children are so-called 'cubs of the caliphate' - the name given to youngsters who have been brainwashed with ISIS ideologies and trained to fight and kill for the terror group.
Shocking footage shows the moment children brainwashed by ISIS shoot two prisoners in the back of the head for being 'spies'
The two boys, both dressed in black, force their captives to kneel in front of them in front of the doorway of a building in Afghanistan before carrying out the executions
In another scene, three more men are murdered, this time by four heavily-armed adults standing in a clearing next to an ISIS flag.
It is not yet clear where exactly in Afghanistan the footage was captured.
ISIS has released several videos, including one earlier this year, showing young children carrying out brutal executions of adults, training with weapons, and pledging allegiance to ISIS.
Last month it emerged that the head of ISIS in Afghanistan was killed in a raid carried out by Afghan and US special forces, the country's president said.
Abdul Hasib died during an attack by 50 US special forces and 40 Afghan commandos overnight on April 27, President Ashraf Ghani said.
In another scene, three more men are murdered, this time by four heavily-armed adults standing in a clearing next to an ISIS flag
A statement by United States Forces - Afghanistan, said the raid also killed several other high-ranking members of the organisation along with 35 fighters.
Hasib took over as leader of ISIS-K, an ISIS affiliate in Afghanistan, last year after predecessor Hafiz Saeed Khan was killed by a US drone strike.

Hasib was responsible for directing the Kabul National Military Hospital attack on March 8 which killed more than 100 Afghan civilians, the statement said.
He was also responsible for beheading tribal elders in front of their families and kidnapping women and girls before forcing them to marry his fighters, according to the statement.

Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group

Title: No title found


Title: Afghanistan Weekly Field Report (28 May - 3 June 2017) - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Countrywide Conflict Displacement
As of 4 June, a total of just under 118,300 people have fled their homes due to conflict since the beginning of the year. This is a 44 percent decrease compared to the same period in 2016 (170,954). Forced displacement has occurred in 29 of 34 provinces of the country.
Northern/North Eastern:Military operations by AfANSF and IM in the Telawka area went into their second week. ANSF also conducted military operations in Khanabad district, Kunduz province. Reportedly, hundreds of individuals have been displaced to Kunduz city and Asqalan, an area where IEDs are prevalent. In Badakshan, 2,656 people were reportedly displaced within districts of Zebak and Eshkashiem due to ongoing military operations between ANSF and NSAGs. Assessments are underway for these cases. Since the beginning of the year, 53,724 individuals have been displaced in the region, 45 percent of the countrywide total.
Southern:Regular clashes between ANSF and NSAGs continued in Hilmand, Kandahar and Uruzgan provinces. In Hilmand, several hundred stocked bails of wheat were reportedly burned during attacks and military operations in the Nad-e-Ali/Marja area, increasing the vulnerability and food insecurity of affected communities. No significant displacements occurred during the reporting period. Since January, 33,568 individuals have been displaced in the south and southeastern regions, 28 percent of this year’s total.
Western:The security situation has remained relatively calm, although 273 individuals were reportedly displaced to Hirat city from Badghis and Ghor and Shindand districts of Hirat province and 651 individuals arrived in Chaghcharan city, Ghor provincial capital from surrounding districts and Badghis following clashes between NSAGs and the ANSF. Assessments are planned in the coming days. In 2017, 10,867 individuals have been displaced in the region, around 9 percent of total.
Eastern:Cross-border shelling continued, albeit at significantly less intense rates than in recent months. Clashes continued in Nangarhar, Kunar and Nuristan provinces during the past week with sporadic displacement reported. 196 individuals were displaced from Kunar, Nuristan and Nangarhar province. So far in 2017, 12,892 individuals have been displaced in the region, 13 per cent of the countrywide total.
Central:The security situation in the capital seriously deteriorated during the reporting period. More than 90 people were killed and over 450 wounded when a truck loaded with explosives detonated on 31 May in downtown Kabul. Some 7 people were killed in clashes between police and protesters the following day. Elsewhere in the region, 1,463 individuals have reportedly been displaced within Logar province and from Kunduz, Nangarhar, Laghman, Baghlan and Takhar to Kabul province. Assessments are ongoing. In 2017, 7,247 people have been displaced in the region, accounting for 6 percent of the overall total.
Refugees and Returnees
A total of 1,888 undocumented Afghans spontaneously returned or were deported from Pakistan through Torkham border crossing from 28 May to 03 June, a 63 per cent decrease from the previous week, bringing the year total to 66,961. Since 1 January, 145,148 undocumented Afghans have also returned from Iran bringing the total returnee population in 2017 to 212,109.
As of 03 June, 32,015 registered Afghans have returned to Afghanistan from Pakistan, Iran and other countries under the UNHCR Repatriation programme. Around 99 percent of all registered refugees returning to Afghanistan in 2017 are from Pakistan.
The significant decrease in undocumented and documented returnees entering into Afghanistan in the past week coincides with the start of Ramadan.
Ongoing Response Activities* (please see page 2)
Central:In Maydan Wardak and Bamyan province UNHCR and Solidarities International provided cash to 623 conflict IDPs. In Khost, WFP distributed food to 1,100 people, and in Paktika UNHCR distributed over 500 tents to refugees from Pakistan. In Kabul, IR provided NFIs assistance to 581 conflict IDPs.
North/ North Eastern:In Samangan, PIN distributed cash to 966 conflict IDPs. In Balkh, NRC distributed cash to 287 conflict IDPs. In Kunduz, ACTED and DACAAR provided cash and hygiene kits to 1,834 conflict IDPs.
Western:In Hirat city, NRC, WFP and DACAAR provided cash, food and hygiene kits to 273 conflict IDPs.
Eastern:In Nangarhar and Laghman, NRC, CASA, ARCS, SCI and WFP distributed cash, food and NFIs to 1,519 conflict IDPs. In Laghman and Nangarhar, CWSA, SVA, UNICEF, IOM, WFP, ZOA/SHPOUL, AADA, UNHCR, ARCS, WHO and UNFPA provided NFIs, food, hygiene kits, Vitamin-A supplement, deworming tablets, malnourished children and PLWs referral and health and hygiene promotion sessions to returnees.
Access Constraints and Security Incidents
Southern:The reopening of an investigation of corruption with humanitarian partners by local authorities has caused the suspension of humanitarian activities in Lashkargah, Hilmand province. A year back, provincial attorney office summoned NGOs to respond to an alleged case of embezzlement of humanitarian assistance. The case was addressed by then however, lately the provincial governor office re-opened the case to carry out further investigations.
Pakistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan
Pakistan
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: ACAPS Briefing Note: Afghanistan - Conflict-induced Displacement in Kunduz (22 June 2017) - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
Crisis overview
Conflict between the Taliban and Afghan security forces in the northern provinces has intensified in the first week of June, especially in Kunduz province. Since the beginning of 2017 12,000 IDPs have been displaced from Kunduz province, the majority to other provinces across Afghanistan, of which over 7,000 were displaced in May. Since January the newly displaced from Kunduz province represent 10% of the total newly displaced population across Afghanistan. IDPs displaced in May made up 49% of Afghanistan’s total displacement.
Key findings
Anticipated scope and scale
Fighting between the Taliban and ANSF forces is likely to continue in Kunduz province, creating additional displacement and increasing humanitarian needs. The number of those forced to flee could significantly increase to reach similar numbers seen in 2016 of over 100,000.
Key priorities
Food: Kunduz province can expect to experience moderate to severe food insecurity. Households have reported using some negative coping mechanisms as a result of their displacement such as reducing quantity and quality of food consumption.
Shelter: IDPs live in substandard shelter conditions, which is expected to worsen with increasing displacement.
Protection: A growing trend in targeted attacks on civilians is increasing protection risks. IDPs continue to be forced into secondary displacement and to use negative coping strategies including child labour and early marriage.
Humanitarian constraints
Continued use of IEDs has a significant impact on access to humanitarian assistance as well as humanitarian access to the affected areas.
Repeated shelling by the Taliban into Kunduz city continues to create temporary restrictions on the delivery of humanitarian assistance to the city.
Afghanistan
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: ACAPS Briefing Note: Afghanistan - Conflict-induced Displacement in Kunduz (22 June 2017) - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
Crisis overview
Conflict between the Taliban and Afghan security forces in the northern provinces has intensified in the first week of June, especially in Kunduz province. Since the beginning of 2017 12,000 IDPs have been displaced from Kunduz province, the majority to other provinces across Afghanistan, of which over 7,000 were displaced in May. Since January the newly displaced from Kunduz province represent 10% of the total newly displaced population across Afghanistan. IDPs displaced in May made up 49% of Afghanistan’s total displacement.
Key findings
Anticipated scope and scale
Fighting between the Taliban and ANSF forces is likely to continue in Kunduz province, creating additional displacement and increasing humanitarian needs. The number of those forced to flee could significantly increase to reach similar numbers seen in 2016 of over 100,000.
Key priorities
Food: Kunduz province can expect to experience moderate to severe food insecurity. Households have reported using some negative coping mechanisms as a result of their displacement such as reducing quantity and quality of food consumption.
Shelter: IDPs live in substandard shelter conditions, which is expected to worsen with increasing displacement.
Protection: A growing trend in targeted attacks on civilians is increasing protection risks. IDPs continue to be forced into secondary displacement and to use negative coping strategies including child labour and early marriage.
Humanitarian constraints
Continued use of IEDs has a significant impact on access to humanitarian assistance as well as humanitarian access to the affected areas.
Repeated shelling by the Taliban into Kunduz city continues to create temporary restrictions on the delivery of humanitarian assistance to the city.
Afghanistan
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: The Never-Ending War: Trump's Afghan Surge May Go Obama's Way - 30.06.2017, Sputnik International
However, a coherent US strategy in Afghanistan is still missing and the European allies are getting increasingly frustrated by the lack of clarity from Washington.
The Europeans have been eagerly awaiting the arrival of the US Defense Secretary Jim Mattis to hear what the US has planned for Afghanistan. They were promised a new US strategy by the NATO leaders meeting in May, but they may be disappointed by what General Mattis brought to Thursday's meeting. Speaking to the press enroute to Brussels, Mattis said he would brief the allies on US assessment of the situation in Afghanistan and his efforts to "fill in any gaps left in the strategy."
After the meeting Mattis told the press he was pleased with allies' willingness to contribute, whilst also placing some blame on the Obama administration for pulling out US troops too soon.
"We may have pulled our troops out too rapidly, reduced the numbers a little too rapidly, but the difference today is that the Afghan army is actually able to carry the fight and they've been carrying the fight for some time now so there's always new ideas you can come up with. There's never a lack of those. There's new opportunities and certainly the political will is there to carry this fight forward," Mattis sent.
So the Europeans will have to wait until those efforts bear some fruit. Mattis will have to return to Washington to "finish out some things," as he put it, before he'd able to present his plan for approval by President Trump.
For Trump, who during his election campaign promised to get America "out of the nation-building business," sending more troops to Afghanistan is another U-turn, and is reminiscent of the situation Barack Obama faced in 2009.
Obama's reluctant surge ultimately accomplished nothing, as many had warned at the time, and there are no reasons to believe that "Trump's surge" would be any different.
The United States have been fighting in Afghanistan for almost 16 years now, and at height of this longest war in American history there were over 100 thousand anti-Taliban coalition troops in the country. Yet, after billions of dollars and thousands of US and allied casualties the Taliban is believed to control over 40 percent of Afghanistan's territory.
These days NATO leads 13,450 multinational troops whose remit is to train the Afghan National Army and Security Forces.
Fifteen NATO members, including Britain, have agreed to commit more troops and money to this effort. The emphasis is obviously on the "Afghanization" of the war. But will it work? If "Vietnamisation" is anything to go by, it hardly would.
Great to meet SecDef Mattis @#NATO: a place he calls his "second home". Thanks for your leadership in strengthening the transatlantic bond.pic.twitter.com/OCjHWSUwED
In his door-step remarks before the NATO defense ministers meeting Jens Stoltenberg praised the Special Operations Forces of Afghanistan as being "very professional." However, after some of the most sophisticated and deadliest attacks by the Taliban, which killed dozens of Afghan soldiers and civilians, it has transpired that the Afghan Armed Forces had been infiltrated by the insurgents.
"The politicization of the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) and the loose recruitment mechanism has practically paralyzed the ANSF, destroyed its intelligence and command structure, and shifted the war equation in Taliban and the Islamic State's favor", Ali Reza Sarwarwritesin The Diplomat.
Compare this to the assessment of the Afghan army under Babrak Karmal in 1984, made by British diplomats and Western reporters on the ground.

To undermine the Afghan government of the day, the West spared no effort in arming and financing the Islamist mujahideen. Western "help" was channeled via Pakistan, and having been "skimmed" by the country's military, as the declassified papers reveal, was instrumental in the eventual rise of the Taliban.
A favorite tactic by the insurgents back in the 1980s was to enlist in the Afghan army or form a pro-government militia to get the weapons and turn them on the government troops.
Fast forward to the present day and the insurgents employ the same tactics and enjoy the same cross-border access from Pakistan as they always had.
Unless US and NATO secure Pakistan's cooperation in denying the Taliban safe passage and havens across the border, no amount of extra troops will help President Trump to come out a "winner" whom he claims to be.

Title: Afghanistan Weekly Field Report (4 - 10 June 2017) - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Countrywide Conflict Displacement
This year, more than 126,000 people have fled their homes due to conflict in Afghanistan. This is 28 per cent less compared to the same period in the previous year, in which 173,000 people were displaced. Displacements this year have reached the majority of the country, with displacements being registered in 29 out of 34 provinces.
Central: Since January, 7,744 people have been displaced in the central region, 6 per cent of the total displacement country-wide.
Northern/North Eastern: In Khwajasabzposh district, Faryab, approximately 3,500 people reportedly have been newly displaced by conflict. Armed clashes also continued in Emamsaheb district, Kunduz. Some 7,000 people are reported to have been displaced. Partners have reached out to local elders in order to gain access to families displaced in areas controlled by NSAG. Since January, over 57,000 people have been displaced in the north and north-eastern regions, 45 per cent of the total displacements country-wide this year.
Eastern: Clashes between NSAGs in Pachieragam District,Nangarhar, reportedly forced some 7,000 people from their homes in four villages. Provincial authorities called for a crisis meeting on 10 June and OCHA is coordinating the efforts of reaching and assessing the displaced families. In 2017, more than 5,500 people have been displaced in the region, 6 per cent of all displaced people in the country this year.
Southern: Clashes continued between ANSF and NSAG in the region. No significant new displacements have been reported.
Since January, more than 35,000 people have been displaced in southern and southeastern regions, 27 per cent of the total displaced people in Afghanistan this year.
Western: NSAG reportedly increased their activities in Farah, including establishing a number of illegal checkpoints along the highway connecting Hirat and Farah districts. This year, more than 11,300 people have been displaced in the western region.
They account for 9 per cent of the total of people displaced in Afghanistan since January.
Refugees and Returnees
A total of 1,091 undocumented Afghans spontaneously returned or were deported from Pakistan and 4,426 undocumented Afghans arrived from Iran. This is a decrease of 42 per cent, and 24 per cent respectively, compared to the previous week.
Since beginning of the year, 68,052 undocumented Afghans have returned to the country from Pakistan and 150,166 from Iran.
According to the most recent figures available, over 32,000 refugees returned from Pakistan under UNHCR’s repatriation programme, as of 3 June. Just over 290 Afghan refugees returned from Iran, by the same date, since January 2017.
Ongoing Response Activities*
Central: In Logar, over 300 members of undocumented returnee-families received cash assistance via IRC. In Khost, 16,100
Pakistanirefugees in Gulan camp received food from WFP. In
**Jaghuri, DACAAR completed more than 50 latrines for displaced families and started water trucking to new displacement sites.
North/North Eastern: Over 700 people in Kunduz received non-conditional cash assistance from NRC to support them with food, fuel, transportation or rent. In addition, DACAAR and SCI supplied them with emergency household items and hygiene kits. In Jawzjan, 392 people affected by flooding received food and emergency household items from IOM and SCI.
Eastern:Over 950 members of displaced, vulnerable families were assisted in Nangarhar and Laghman provinces with food, emergency household items, hygiene kits or cash. In Jalalabad city, 1,050 members of undocumented returnee families received cash for food from WFP. At border crossings with Pakistan, IOM,  UNICEF, UNHCR and their partner AADA, provided more than 240 children with Vitamin-A-supplementation or deworming and more than 130 children were screened for malnutrition. Some 40 women attended a three-day emergency-preparedness/DRR training in Mehtarlam, Laghman, conducted by IMC/DoWA.  Another 40 community volunteers were trained by IMC on the same subjects in Rodat district, Nangarhar province.
Southern: Over 400 displaced households received emergency assistance in Shajoy, Zabul, and Tirinkot, Uruzgan, from DACAAR, NRC, SCI, UNICEF, UNHCR and WFP.
Western: More than 880 displaced people received cash, WASH supplies, emergency household items or food in Hirat City, Farah City and in Baghdis Province from CRDSA, DACAAR, DRC, NRC and WFP. In Baghdis, IRC also provided hygiene promotion and chlorination for 28 families.
Access Constraints and Security Incidents
Central: In the capital Kabul, demonstrators installed over half a dozen tents at junctions across the city and are calling for resignation of senior Government officials over the deteriorating security situation in the city. The ongoing demonstrations and lock down by ANSF negatively impact aid delivery to displaced communities scattered across the city and assessments have been reportedly delayed in three outlying districts of the capital.
Access to Ghazni and Paktika provinces from Kabul are hampered due to illegal checkpoints and attacks by NSAG on ANSF that could also affect civilian and NGO vehicles.
Western: In Farah city, acts of intimidation have been registered against staff from a health facility run by an NGO, not to hire female staff. Reportedly, a grenade was thrown into the premises.
Pakistan+ 1 more
Afghanistan
Pakistan
Afghanistan+ 1 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Can a New US Surge Stabilize Afghanistan? – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
Trump is considering sending more troops to Afghanistan, but that won’t solve the underlying problems.
President Donald Trump and his top policy advisers are worried about America’s longest war, in Afghanistan. The people of Afghanistan are worried as well. The question of whether the country’s fragile, corruption-ridden, and politically polarized National Unity Government (NUG) can survive its many foes –including an emboldened insurgency, crippling political division among the countries’ elites, and devastating tensions with its neighbors — is a common one among political analysts, ordinary people, and even government employees. In the last months, the Taliban has launched some of the most complicated and deadliest attacks that left not only scores of soldiers and civilians dead, but also humiliated the Afghan government and its partners. This week’sdeadly bombing in Kabulwas just the latest tragic incident.
Last month’s attacks on military base in northern Afghanistan, in whichbetween 160 to 500 soldierswere killed or wounded, raised a simple question: is there a government with basic statecraft and functional apparatuses in Afghanistan? The Talibanclaimedthat four of the attackers involved in the raids on the military base were the group’s “moles,” who had infiltrated the Afghan National Army’s ranks and had credible insider knowledge about the base’s structure and vulnerability. A similar claim was made after the assaults on the military’s largest hospital in Kabul. The politicization of the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) and the loose recruitment mechanism has practically paralyzed the ANSF, destroyed its intelligence and command structure, and shifted the war equation in Taliban and the Islamic State’s favor. According to latestreport, the government controls less than 60 percent of the country, which is alarming.
The future of the U.S.-Afghan strategic partnership is critical to Afghanistan’s survival. The longevity of the war and its massive human and financial costs have, however, generated a deepening sense of confusion, attrition, and disappointment among Afghanistan’s strategic partners. President Ashraf Ghani’s NUG has significantly invested in its foreign relations, particularly with the United States and NATO, with considerable successes. But the continuity of such relationship depends on tangible and immediate changes in the war theater, improving governance, state building, and restoring basic security to the country. Ghani and his team have failed to deliver on any of these fronts.
In its last summit, NATO leadersconditionedtheir assistance to Afghanistan on eradicating administrative corruption, which persists because of many structural flaws in the Afghan government, including a centralized political system, extremely patronage-based appointments in the government’s leadership, and the absence of political will among top leadership to take serious actions against those involved in stealing public money and property. So far, the government has not prosecuted any high-profile corruption cases and the perpetrators often enjoy impunity and are protected by mafias with unlimited access to power.
Afghanistan was not a top priority during the U.S. presidential election. However, for Trump, who campaigned to restore isolationism to U.S. foreign policy, the complexity of the situation in Afghanistan seems to have re-engaged Washington in the Afghan war. The United States is considering sending more soldiers to assist and train the Afghan army. In addition to the grave security situation in Afghanistan, the nature of Trump’s administration, which is dominated by senior military strategists with previous experience fighting in Afghanistan, has played a role in shifting Washington’s attention to Afghanistan again. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, both the former and current national security adviser, and Secretary of Homeland Security John F. Kelly, who also lost a son in Afghanistan, have all fought in Afghanistan. They are familiar with the brutal nature of the Taliban and their dangerous ideology and agenda beyond Afghanistan. Plus, on a more basic level, military leaders always want to win a war.
But will the new surge, if happens, alter the calculus on the battlefield in the government’s favor? The answer to this question should go beyond mere military calculations. The war in Afghanistan is complicated, with many actors and divergent causes. If the interplaying causes and actors are not properly managed, the protracted war will continue and the surge and the U.S. prolonged engagement with Afghanistan will not succeed. The reasons are obvious.
First, Afghanistan’s war continues with little success because Afghan national politics is in serious disarray and crisis. Continued ethnic, linguistic, and political clashes have eroded ANSF’s morale and ability to fight with strength and internal cohesion. Corruption in the army isrampant— ranks and promotions are sold, military equipment is stolen, and meritocracy in recruiting and promotions is commonly compromised. Ghani’s crusade against corruption has not curbed the epidemic to a level acceptable to the Afghan people and international partners. ANSF enjoys superiority in numbers and weaponry over the Taliban, but the force is often stabbed in the back by its own leadership and the dirty politics that often permit unqualified and corrupt individuals to receive leadership position. The president’s disappointing decision, for instance, to appoint the former defense minister and military chief of staff as ambassadors after their resignations following the attacks on 209 Shaheen Military Corps confirms the bloody nature of Afghan politics and the ignominious culture of deal-making. With the current structure in place, a U.S. surge can hardly yield any positive change. There is a need for fundamental restructuring and reforms in ANSF if the force is to stand up to the grinding insurgency, desertions, and high casualty rates.
Second, the reinvigorated return of the Taliban is incubated by the treacherous political environment in the region. Much has changed since 2001, when the majority of actors in the region supported Afghanistan’s push for stability. The Afghanistan-Pakistan relationship has reached its lowest point, with both countries unable to overcome their profound differences. Pakistan has smartly utilized its strategic links and affinity with extremist militants to undermine the Afghan government’s efforts to control and govern. In Pakistan’s national security and foreign policy calculations, Afghanistan is oftenviewedas “strategic depth,” a client state where Pakistan can project its power to deter separatists, entangle India, contain Afghan nationalists who refuse to accept the Durand Line as the official border between the two countries, and maintain Pakistan’s relevance to regional and international politics under the guise of fighting global terrorism. Pakistan already receives substantial financial aid from the United States for the war against terrorism, though Pakistan does not uphold its end of the bargain. The Afghan government has had little or no luck in formulating a consistent strategy toward Pakistan and its destabilizing role in Afghanistan. While popular sentiments against Pakistan’s interference in Afghanistan are high, Afghan elites and core decision-makers are ambivalent about how to handle a densely populated and nuclear neighbor that also happens to operate a massive terror factory. The souring relationship between the two countries jeopardizes any hope of sustainable and meaningful peace in Afghanistan and the greater region.
Third, Trump’s consideration of deploying more troops in Afghanistan coincides with the United States’ own confusion about its foreign policy, particularly engagement in the Middle East and Asia. Trump’s “America First” slogan repudiates his tenacious and abrasive foreign policy attitude. Trump paid his first foreign visit to Saudi Arabia, where hesignedan unprecedented $110 billion arms deal with the Saudi monarchy. He also reaffirmed the United States’ unconditional military and diplomatic support to Saudi Arabia and other Sunni Arab states in their rivalry with Iran. Trump’s closeness to Saudi Arabia has augmented fears about two possible outcomes. First, Saudi Arabia may become more aggressive and use its extensive networks of extremists in the Middle East and around the world to promote its political agenda against Iran and Pakistan. Iran, on the other hands, may retaliate by drawing closer to Moscow and unifying and supporting its proxies in Iraq, Syria, Yemen, and Lebanon to fight the axis of the United States and Saudi Arabia. As Iran and Saudi Arabia’s rivalry intensifies, countries with fragile political system like Afghanistan will suffer. Both Saudi Arabia and Iran have long been fighting in Afghanistan. With the new political environment, the war enters a bloodier phase. Afghanistan’s geography and mountains have been tempting sanctuaries for Islamists and extremist groups who find it difficult to fight in their own countries because of oppressive and ubiquitous government apparatuses.
In such a situation, sending more U.S. troops to Afghanistan may provide temporary physiological relief and quell insurgency for short time, but the fundamental solutions to Afghanistan’s war should be sought in political reforms, building inclusive institutions, containing Pakistan’s support for terrorism, and convincing external powers to stop exploiting Afghanistan’s soil for competing political rivalries. The world needs to hear good news about Afghanistan. The ground situation indicates, however, that such a story will take a long time to be told.
Ali Reza Sarwar is a Political Analyst and Researcher based in Kabul. Reza was a Fulbright Scholar at Texas A&M University and a Researcher at Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington D.C.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: Parents appeal to Haqqani network to free their Canadian son
PESHAWAR: The parents of a Canadian citizen and his American wife who were kidnapped nearly five year ago in Afghanistan have appealed to the Afghan Taliban and the Haqqani network to release the couple and their two children on humanitarian grounds in this holy month of Ramazan on the eve of Eidul Fitr.
Patrick Boyle and his wife Linda, who belong to Canada, recorded a video message in English with Urdu and Pashto sub-titles to launch the appeal in the hope that their eldest son, Joshua Boyle and his wife Caitlan and their two children born in captivity would be finally freed. The video-tape was shared by the couple with this correspondent.
Joshua Boyle, 33, and his wife Caitlan Coleman, 31, were kidnapped from the Wardak-Kabul road in October 2012. They were reportedly on a backpacking trip. Their choice to do tourism in war-torn Afghanistan came as a surprise as it carried grave risk.
Later, it emerged that the couple was in the custody of the Haqqani network, which is part of the Afghan Taliban movement and is headed by Sirajuddin Haqqani. In recent years, Haqqani has also operated as the deputy leader of the Afghan Taliban group.
A few videos of the kidnapped couple and their two sons, both born in captivity, have also been released as a means to put pressure on the families of Joshua Boyle and Caitlan Coleman and the governments of Canada and the US to accept the Haqqani network’s demands in return for their release. Though the demands weren't made public, these have been conveyed to the families and the Canadian and American governments through intermediaries.
The Haqqani network earlier demanded release of their 10 prisoners, all held in Afghanistan, but it was learnt the list has been reduced to eight. Three of these prisoners are very important for the Haqqani network. One is Anas Haqqani, the brother of Sirajuddin Haqqani and son of noted Afghan mujahideen commander Maulvi Jalaluddin Haqqani, who was arrested by US officials in Bahrain after returning from a visit to Qatar and handed over to the Afghan government. He has later sentenced to death by an Afghan court, but President Ashraf Ghani's government hasn't executed him yet despite demands by certain political groups in Afghanistan. The other precious prisoner for the Haqqani network is Qari Rasheed, who had accompanied Anas Haqqani on the trip to Qatar and was arrested by the Americans in Bahrain. The third prisoner is Haji Mali Khan, a maternal uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani.
In their appeal, Patrick Boyle and Linda mentioned the case of Sirajuddin Haqqani's brother Anas Haqqani without naming him. "Our family was asked very clearly to do everything that it could to influence change and overturn Afghanistan's policy, to stop the execution of your brothers. We have done the best an ordinary Canadian family can do. I have personally written to several of the most senior government officials in Afghanistan - those with great power over any execution of your brothers. These letters were well received," argued Patrick Boyle. He said they also pushed hard on the Canadian and US governments to encourage Afghanistan not to uphold or approve the death sentences.
In the video appeal, Patrick Boyle is heard saying to the Haqqani network leadership: "While we are a modest family, our efforts have resulted in some success. Your family members are still alive. The death sentence has not been upheld and has not been carried out. You know this to be true."
The appeal says: "We are now respectfully asking you to show mercy to our family members in return. They are a young family of innocent civilians. They have never had any government or military ties. The Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan can follow the tradition of other governments of Muslim nations and release prisoners at Eid as acts of kindness, charity and mercy in the spirit of Ramadan."
The appeal and Ramazan and Eid greetings are addressed to the Taliban supreme leader Mulla Haibatullah Akhundzada and Sirajuddin Haqqani and they are asked to show mercy on their family. At one point, the appeal says: "We recognize the many wrongs suffered by the people of Afghanistan. Holding our family members will not remedy those wrongs."
Patrick Boyle and Linda also spoke in the video to their son and daughter-in-law, praising their strength and asking them not to despair and don't give up.
FIR lodged by Hadyara Station House Officer Hamas Hameed includes sections of terrorism and attempted murder
Current Japanese Constitution came into effect on May 3, 1947
KP would have a serious and negative impact on the rest of the country and if the provincial government did not...
Akbar S Babar said verdict relied heavily on self-serving concept of ‘complete justice’ to justify relief provided...
Convoy of more than 10 foreign ambassadors was passing through picturesque town of Malam Jabba in Swat district when...
Daniyal Chaudhary said that Zionist lobbies believe that Imran Khan and his party could represent Israel in Islamic...
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: US Strike Reportedly Kills Haqqani Network Commander in Pakistan
Print
A suspected drone strike has reportedly killed a key Haqqani network commander in a remote Pakistani tribal district, according to Pakistani security officials.The attack late Monday targeted a leader of the terror group, identified as Abubakar. Local officials suspected the strike was from a U.S. drone, but the Pentagon denied carrying out the attack."The Department of Defense has not conducted any recent strikes in Pakistan," Pentagon spokesman Adam Stump told VOA Pentagon correspondent Carla Babb on Wednesday.
Behram Khan, a resident of Dewal village in the Speen Tal area of the Hangu district, told Radio Liberty that three others were wounded in the strike, including a boy.
Abubakar, whose original name was Omar, hailed from Afghanistan's southeastern Khost province, the birthplace of network founder Jalaluddin Haqqani, according to Afghan and Pakistani intelligence reports.
Khan said the slain commander moved to Dewal from Pakistan's North Waziristan tribal district after the Pakistani military launched a counterterrorist operation there in 2014.
The suspected drone strike came after a May 31 truck bombing in Kabul killed more than 150 people in the deadliest attack in the Afghan capital since the ouster of the Taliban following the U.S.-led invasion in 2001.
Afghan officials blamed the Pakistan-based Haqqani network for the blast. But network leader Sirajuddin Haqqani, in a rare Pashto language audio message released over the weekend by the Taliban to VOA, denied insurgents' involvement in the attack.
Based in tribal region
The Haqqani network, a militant group that fights Afghan and U.S. forces in Afghanistan and is a U.S.-designated foreign terrorist organization, is reported to be based in Miram Shah, a town in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas in northern Pakistan.
The network operates base camps where it trains suicide bombers and does logistical planning for military operations, according to media reports.
In recent years, group members have moved to other areas in the tribal region that borders Afghanistan, from where they launch attacks against Afghan and U.S. forces stationed in the country, according to U.S. officials.
Afghan officials and U.S. terrorism authorities consider the network one the most lethal terrorist groups in Afghanistan. It has been blamed for some of the deadliest violence in the country, including attacks on embassies in Kabul, the Afghan parliament building, local residents and U.S. military bases.
Monday's drone attack was not the first one in the area. A senior Haqqani commander was killed in 2013, along with several other members of the group, by a U.S. drone strike.
U.S. drone attacks in Pakistan have resumed as Afghanistan has seen an uptick in terrorist activities and violence that Afghan and U.S. officials blame largely on Pakistan.
U.S. action urged
"The Haqqani network, which is an ally of al-Qaida and Taliban extremists, has operated as Pakistan's proxy," Zalmay Khalilzad, former U.S. ambassador to Afghanistan and Iraq, told VOA recently.
"If Pakistan refuses to move against the Haqqani network sanctuaries, the U.S. should consider actions against the sanctuaries, including striking them," he said.
Afghan intelligence officials told VOA's Afghan service that the Taliban purposely deny involvement in most deadly attacks in Afghanistan to secure their Pakistani sponsors from further isolation.
Islamabad has rejected the charges as baseless and unfounded, saying Pakistan "in the strongest terms" has condemned the Kabul terrorist attack. Pakistan officially has dismissed allegations that Taliban insurgents are using Pakistani soil for orchestrating the violence.
VOA's Deewa service contributed to this report from Peshawar. VOA's Carla Babb reported from the Pentagon


Title: Haqqani network commander killed in Hangu drone strike - Pakistan - Dunya News
Haqqani network commander killed in Hangu drone strike
Two missile strikes by the drone targeted their commander Abu Bakr in his house

(Web Desk) – Two successive drone strikes in Hangu district of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) have resulted in killing the Haqqani network commander, according to sources from security agencies.
Apart from Abu Bakr, his partner was also killed in the two missiles fired at his house in Hangu’s Speen Tal area. The drone strikes happened on Monday while the death of the Haqqani network commander was reported on Tuesday.
Sources told the missiles were directed at the commander’s house while there the government officials have not given any confirmation of the strike or killing of Haqqani network leader. In fact, the Hangu area is located near the North Waziristan Agencies.
Afghan security forces had accused Pakistan’s intelligence agencies and the Haqqani network of backing thesuicide terror attack in Kabulwhich killed at least 150 people. Consequently, Pakistan s Ambassador to the United States Aizaz Chaudhry had rejected these claims and said the Haqqani network had moved to the neighbouring state of Afghanistan and suggested that the Afghan officials should emphasis on tackling them in their territory. "Security situation across the border in Afghanistan is a risk for Pakistan’s growing economy," he stated in aninterview.
Haqqani network is known for its brutal attacks on US-led NATO forces in Afghanistan, after being founded by Jalaluddin Haqqani and now led by his son Sirajuddin Haqqani. In 2012, the United States recognised it as a terrorist organisation and blacklisted it.

Title: Imran condemns Hangu drone strike, asks if govt consents 
Get Alerts
Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf Chairman Imran Khan condemned the Hangu network attack and said that it violates Pakistan's sovereignty with impunity and is against international law.
A drone strike killed a commander of theHaqqani networkin Khyber Pakhtunkhawa's Hangu district on Tuesday.
According to sources,Haqqani networkleader Abubakr and a partner were killed when a drone fired two missiles at his house in Speen Tal area of Hangu. The drone strike 'completely destroyed' the military commander's house.
US drone strike on Hangu in KP violates Pak's sovereignty with impunity & ag all int laws incl int humanitarian laws. Did GoP give consent?

In his tweet, Imran also asked if government of Pakistan consented to such strikes.
There was no immediate confirmation of the drone strike from government officials.
Safeguarding journalism: How cybersecurity is guarding media
The attack comes days after Afghanistan security forces accused Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence and theHaqqani networkof being responsible for thesuicide truck bombingon May 31 in Kabul that killed 150 people. Pakistan government rejected these allegations. Pakistan's ambassador to the US Sartaj Aziz said that theHaqqani networkhasmoved to Afghanistan, and Afghan forces should focus on dealing with them rather than blaming Pakistan.
TheHaqqani networkwas founded by Afghan warlord Jalaluddin Haqqani and is now being run by his son Sirajuddin. The group has been blamed for some of the most heinous attacks on US-led foreign forces in Afghanistan. It was labeled as a terrorist organisation by the United States in September 2012.
Kohsar police arrest key bike theft gang member




NIPCO House, 4 - Shaharah e Fatima Jinnah,
Lahore, Pakistan
Tel: +92 42 36367580    |     Fax : +92 42 36367005
Nawaiwaqt Group | Copyright © 2024
Nawaiwaqt Group | Copyright © 2024

Title: Afghan Terror Chief Haqqani Denies Role in Bloody Kabul Attacks
Print
The head of the dreaded Haqqani network who also is second-in-command of the Afghan Taliban has denied insurgents’ involvement in recent bloody attacks in Kabul.
Fugitive Sirajuddin Haqqani made the remarks in a rare Pashto language audio message released late Sunday by the Taliban to VOA.
He specifically referred to the May 31 tanker truck bombing of the Afghan capital’s heavily guarded Wazir Akbar Khan diplomatic sector followed by a triple suicide attack on a funeral in Kabul and last week’s bombing of a mosque in the western city of Herat.
The three strikes killed at least 180 people and wounded hundreds of others. Almost all of the victims were civilians.
“Whoever planned and organized them, this was certainly not the work of the Islamic Emirate [the Taliban], nor will it conduct such activities anywhere [in the country] that are harmful to innocent [Afghan] civilians,” Haqqani asserted.
No one has yet claimed responsibility for the blasts in Kabul and Herat.

Most of the casualties were caused by the tanker truck, filled with an estimated 1,500 kilograms of explosives. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani told an international conference in Kabul last week that the massive explosions killed more than 150 people and wounded 350 others, including foreigners.
The attack was the deadliest in Afghanistan since 2001.
‘Foreign invaders’
The Afghan spy agency swiftly blamed the Haqqani network of plotting the massive blast, allegedly with direct assistance from neighboring Pakistan’s spy agency.
Haqqani in his audio message reiterated that the Taliban will not end its insurgency until all the U.S.-led "foreign invaders” are expelled from Afghanistan.
He criticized the Afghan government for allegedly promoting Western traditions in the country, "contrary to Islamic traditions," in the name of human rights.
“The way you [Afghans] celebrate Afghanistan’s independence from Russians and the way you celebrate Afghanistan’s independence from British invaders, God willing, there will be a time when you will be proudly celebrating independence from Americans and their allies," the fugitive commander asserted.

The U.S. Department of State designated Haqqani a global terrorist in 2008, before designating his network a foreign terrorist organization in 2012.
Washington also has offered a $10 million reward for the Afghan terror chief, dubbed “Khalifa” or “the boss,” who is believed to have masterminded some of the deadly attacks against local and foreign forces in Afghanistan.
Afghan and U.S. officials alleged Sirajuddin Haqqani orchestrates the violence out of his sanctuaries in volatile tribal areas of Pakistan and with the help of that country's intelligence operatives.
Islamabad rejects the charges and says its military operations over the past three years have "uprooted all terrorist groups, including the Haqqani network" from the tribal belt near the border with Afghanistan.


Title: Afghan Terror Chief Haqqani Denies Role in Bloody Kabul Attacks
By Ayaz Gul  June 11, 2017
The head of the dreaded Haqqani network who also is second-in-command of the Afghan Taliban has denied insurgents' involvement in recent bloody attacks in Kabul.
Fugitive Sirajuddin Haqqani made the remarks in a rare Pashto language audio message released late Sunday by the Taliban to VOA.
He specifically referred to the May 31 tanker truck bombing of the Afghan capital's heavily guarded Wazir Akbar Khan diplomatic sector followed by a triple suicide attack on a funeral in Kabul and last week's bombing of a mosque in the western city of Herat.
The three strikes killed at least 180 people and wounded hundreds of others. Almost all of the victims were civilians.
"Whoever planned and organized them, this was certainly not the work of the Islamic Emirate [the Taliban], nor will it conduct such activities anywhere [in the country] that are harmful to innocent [Afghan] civilians," Haqqani asserted.
No one has yet claimed responsibility for the blasts in Kabul and Herat.
Most of the casualties were caused by the tanker truck, filled with an estimated 1,500 kilograms of explosives. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani told an international conference in Kabul last week that the massive explosions killed more than 150 people and wounded 350 others, including foreigners.
The attack was the deadliest in Afghanistan since 2001.
'Foreign invaders'
The Afghan spy agency swiftly blamed the Haqqani network of plotting the massive blast, allegedly with direct assistance from neighboring Pakistan's spy agency.
Haqqani in his audio message reiterated that the Taliban will not end its insurgency until all the U.S.-led "foreign invaders" are expelled from Afghanistan.
He criticized the Afghan government for allegedly promoting Western traditions in the country, "contrary to Islamic traditions," in the name of human rights.
"The way you [Afghans] celebrate Afghanistan's independence from Russians and the way you celebrate Afghanistan's independence from British invaders, God willing, there will be a time when you will be proudly celebrating independence from Americans and their allies," the fugitive commander asserted.
The U.S. Department of State designated Haqqani a global terrorist in 2008, before designating his network a foreign terrorist organization in 2012.
Washington also has offered a $10 million reward for the Afghan terror chief, dubbed "Khalifa" or "the boss," who is believed to have masterminded some of the deadly attacks against local and foreign forces in Afghanistan.
Afghan and U.S. officials alleged Sirajuddin Haqqani orchestrates the violence out of his sanctuaries in volatile tribal areas of Pakistan and with the help of that country's intelligence operatives.
Islamabad rejects the charges and says its military operations over the past three years have "uprooted all terrorist groups, including the Haqqani network" from the tribal belt near the border with Afghanistan.



Title: Afghan Terror Chief Haqqani Denies Role in Bloody Kabul Attacks - New Delhi Times - India's Only International Newspaper - Empowering Global Vision, Empathizing with India
The head of the dreaded Haqqani network who also is second-in-command of the Afghan Taliban has denied insurgents’ involvement in recent bloody attacks in Kabul.
Fugitive Sirajuddin Haqqani made the remarks in a rare Pashto language audio message released late Sunday by the Taliban to VOA.
He specifically referred to the May 31 tanker truck bombing of the Afghan capital’s heavily guarded Wazir Akbar Khan diplomatic sector followed by a triple suicide attack on a funeral in Kabul and last week’s bombing of a mosque in the western city of Herat.
The three strikes killed at least 180 people and wounded hundreds of others. Almost all of the victims were civilians.
“Whoever planned and organized them, this was certainly not the work of the Islamic Emirate [the Taliban], nor will it conduct such activities anywhere [in the country] that are harmful to innocent [Afghan] civilians,” Haqqani asserted.
No one has yet claimed responsibility for the blasts in Kabul and Herat.
Most of the casualties were caused by the tanker truck, filled with an estimated 1,500 kilograms of explosives. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani told an international conference in Kabul last week that the massive explosions killed more than 150 people and wounded 350 others, including foreigners.
The attack was the deadliest in Afghanistan since 2001.
‘Foreign invaders’
The Afghan spy agency swiftly blamed the Haqqani network of plotting the massive blast, allegedly with direct assistance from neighboring Pakistan’s spy agency.
Haqqani in his audio message reiterated that the Taliban will not end its insurgency until all the U.S.-led “foreign invaders” are expelled from Afghanistan.
He criticized the Afghan government for allegedly promoting Western traditions in the country, “contrary to Islamic traditions,” in the name of human rights.
“The way you [Afghans] celebrate Afghanistan’s independence from Russians and the way you celebrate Afghanistan’s independence from British invaders, God willing, there will be a time when you will be proudly celebrating independence from Americans and their allies,” the fugitive commander asserted.
The U.S. Department of State designated Haqqani a global terrorist in 2008, before designating his network a foreign terrorist organization in 2012.
Washington also has offered a $10 million reward for the Afghan terror chief, dubbed “Khalifa” or “the boss,” who is believed to have masterminded some of the deadly attacks against local and foreign forces in Afghanistan.
Afghan and U.S. officials alleged Sirajuddin Haqqani orchestrates the violence out of his sanctuaries in volatile tribal areas of Pakistan and with the help of that country’s intelligence operatives.
Islamabad rejects the charges and says its military operations over the past three years have “uprooted all terrorist groups, including the Haqqani network” from the tribal belt near the border with Afghanistan.Credit : Voice of America (VOA) | Photo Credit: AP
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.AcceptRead More
You must belogged into post a comment.