Title: US-Taliban dialogue: a test for the stakeholders - Daily Times
Daily Times
Your right to knowTuesday, September 24, 2024
Op-Ed
Pakistan is keen to see stability in Afghanistan to address its own myriad of problems
Asif Durrani
December 10, 2018
US Special Envoy on Afghanistan Zalmay Khalilzad is on his third mission to hold talks with Afghanistan’s neighbours (minus Iran) and the Taliban to find a way out of the Afghan problem that has fatigued almost all the stakeholders involved in the crisis. Mr Khalilzad will be holding the third round of talks with the Taliban and this time Moscow and Beijing are also included in his itinerary, a clear signal that Washington would like to adopt an inclusive approach while addressing the problem. In a way, it is an attempt to respond to the Russian initiative which held a conference in Moscow on November the 9th, and which was participated by all theneighbours of Afghanistanas well as the Taliban. However, the US, Afghan government and India participated in the conference as observers and at a low-key level.
Zalmay Khalilzad met with Pakistani leadership (4-5 December) and reiterated the US oft-repeated offer of “sky is the limit” cooperation if Pakistan could facilitate Taliban’s participation in the peace talks and secure their agreement to talk to the Ashraf Ghani government as well. Mr Khalilzad held delegation level talks with the Foreign Secretary Tehmina Janjua and called on the Prime Minster Imran Khan and Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi.
A week ago President Trump had a U-turn in a letter toPrime Minister Imran Khanpleading for closer cooperation on Afghanistan and bringing the Afghan problem to an amicable end. He acknowledged that both the US and Pakistan have immensely suffered due to the Afghan crisis and that the two countries should explore opportunities for closer cooperation. This letter came hardly ten days after his accusation against Pakistan of “not doing a damn thing for the US despite receiving billions of dollars”. By now Americans must have realized that browbeating Pakistan has not worked whether by President Obama or Trump. Pakistan has made it clear to the US that it cannot dump its failure in Afghanistan at Pakistan’s door.
By now Americans must have realised that browbeating Pakistan has not worked whether by President Obama or Trump. Pakistan has made it clear to the US that it cannot dump its failure in Afghanistan at Pakistan’s door
As I have said in my previous write-ups that the US is ready for a withdrawal and that it is now hinting for a pullout before April 2019. The US would not mind if the next presidential elections slated for April next year in Afghanistan are postponed for a later date. However, before such an arrangement is agreed to between the US and all Afghan stakeholders a couple of important issues need to be sorted out. First, the US is keen to seek Taliban’s consent for a token presence of its troops in Afghanistan. According to the US officials, “This is being asked to ensure that al-Qaeda or their associates do not reassemble in Afghanistan.” Apparently, Taliban have not agreed to the US proposal arguing that they do not entertain an overseas agenda implying that there would be no room for al-Qaeda or Daesh/ISIS.
Second, the US would like to have some kind of understanding between Taliban and existing setup in Afghanistan led by Ashraf Ghani. Afghan commentators have been complaining that by completely ignoring the present dispensation, the US or Taliban would be committing a mistake as unless all stakeholders were given a place at the negotiating table, peace in Afghanistan would remain elusive.
Third, it is yet to be seen if the US would lead the dialogue alone or allow the UN to play a role in facilitating the US withdrawal from Afghanistan. After all, the US presence in Afghanistan owes it to the UN Security Council resolutions 1368 and 1373, which legitimized use of force in Afghanistan. Now that the US is eager to leave Afghanistan would it not involve the UN? In any case, a withdrawal should be taken up by the UN Security Council in order to close the Afghan file.
Fourth, as the dialogue between the US and Taliban proceeds would the US be ready to facilitate the deletion of Taliban’s name from the 1267 Committee list? This was also raised by the Taliban delegation at the Moscow Conference amongst other demands. The Taliban delegate described “Peace negotiations and sanctions list are two contradictory concepts and can’t go side by side” so that “representatives of the Islamic Emirate are able to participate in peace talks in different places without any hurdle”. Similarly, Taliban are demanding release of their members from the American and Afghan jails in order to pursue the peace dialogue. Yet another significant demand by the Taliban is the permission of opening a formal office of the Taliban “to issue peace related press releases, respond to questions of (the) people as a responsible entity and remove national and international concerns.”
What does the US expect from Pakistan, especially when the Taliban are in control of half of the country and other neighbours of Afghanistan — China, Russia and Iran — are in direct contact with the Taliban. Naturally, the US is aware of the symbiotic relationship that exists between Pakistan and Afghanistan irrespective of the governments on both sides. Afghans of all hue and colour are familiar with Pakistan and have been beneficiary of this country in one way or the other, Taliban are no exception. Afghans are also aware that Pakistan provides easy access to the Afghans unlike its other neighbours; similarly Pakistan has provided such an access only to the Afghans in its neighbourhood.
As regards facilitation of dialogue between the US and Taliban, Pakistan will have to weigh its options carefully. Despite having contacts with the Taliban, Pakistan, by and large, has been maintaining a respectable distance with all Afghan groups, especially after the 9/11. How much can Pakistan pressurize Taliban depends on issues on the table.
Pakistan is keen to see stability in Afghanistan to address its own myriad of problems. It is likely to respond positively to President Trump’s letter. Given the past experience Pakistan would wish an orderly withdrawal of US-led NATO forces from Afghanistan, which was echoed by the military spokesperson, in his briefing that Washington should“leave Kabul as a friend of the region rather than a failure”. With this objective in mind, Pakistani policy makers are likely to urge the Taliban to consider long-term stability of Afghanistan and avoid raising unreasonable demands.
While facilitating a dialogue between the US and Taliban, Pakistan should insist on taking the neighbours of Afghanistan onboard. Right now Mr. Khalilzad is touring all neighbours of Afghanistan except Iran for obvious reasons. However, being a direct neighbour and a substantive stakeholder, Iran cannot be ignored. An inclusive approach would be needed; especially Afghanistan’s direct neighbours will have to be involved in any future settlement in Afghanistan.
From Pakistan’s perspective India is the bully on the block, which is evident from its involvement with the Tehreek Taliban Pakistan (TTP) and use of some factions of the Kabul regimes against Pakistan ever since the fall of Taliban. Naturally, Pakistan’s cooperation in facilitation of dialogue would be dependent on US’ counselling of India to stop spoiler’s role by using Afghan soil against Pakistan.
Since so much blood and treasure has been wasted during the past seventeen years one has to be cautiously optimistic to hazard a guess about the success of US-Taliban dialogue. Hopefully, Americans while making plans for troop withdrawal would take into account the long-term stability of Afghanistan and its neighbours, for a negligent approach could only encourage the extremists and spell disaster.
The writer is a former ambassador
Published in Daily Times, December 10th2018.




More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category

HomeLead StoriesLatest NewsEditor’s Picks
CultureLife & StyleFeaturedVideos
EditorialsOP-EDSCommentaryAdvertise
CartoonsLettersBlogsPrivacy Policy
ContactCompany’s FinancialsInvestor InformationTerms & Conditions
FacebookTwitterInstagramYoutube
Copyright © 2024 Daily TimesWebsite Developed ByDaily Times Developers

Title: MSN


Title: In Afghanistan, a Rushed Peace Will Be a Short Peace – The Diplomat
ReadThe Diplomat,Know The Asia-Pacific
Afghans remain divided on the possibility of peace, and strongly fearful of the Taliban.
The year 2018 has witnessed rapid changes in peace efforts in Afghanistan. In early February, President Ashraf Ghani put forward an unconditional peace offer to the Taliban. Over the summer, the Afghan government and Taliban honored their first truce in 17 years of war, albeit only for three days. The U.S. government introduced a special envoy for peace in Afghanistan, tasked with ending the longest war the United States has been involved in its history. Russia organized a conference on Afghan peace in Moscow, where the Afghan High Peace Council members and Taliban representatives met. Finally, in late November in Geneva, Switzerland in a two-day conference on Afghanistan development, Ghani announced a 12 member team that will hold peace talks with the Taliban.
Given the dizzying pace of development, there must be an assumption that there is public demand for peace. According to Zalmay Khalilzad, the U.S. special envoy for peace in Afghanistan, Afghans deserve peace after having been at war for 40 years. However, a survey of Afghan public opinion in 2018 reveals a complex picture of public views regarding peace efforts. The results would suggest it’s better not to rush peace efforts.
The findings from latestSurvey of the Afghan Peopleby the Asia Foundation indicates that some 41.9 percent of Afghans think peace with the Taliban is impossible. Looking at the survey data, it shows that the nation’s view is divided on peace efforts. By ethnicity, the differences are significant: some 63.7 percent of Pashtuns reported that peace is possible compared to just 50.8 percent of Tajiks, 42.5 percent of Hazaras, and only 38.8 percent of Uzbeks (the Taliban are heavily dominated by Pashtuns). The views of men and women also differs, as males (60.5 percent) are significantly more likely to believe that peace with the Taliban is possible compared to women (46.5 percent). Significant differences emerge by regions as well, ranging from 73.6 percent of respondents in the east who opine that peace is possible to only 32.9 percent of respondents in the central/Hazarajat region.
Percent of respondents by province who say peace with the Taliban is “possible.” Data from the 2018 Survey of the Afghan People.
In addition, the survey findings show that many Afghans remain fearful of the Taliban. Some 93.6 percent of Afghans said they feel fear when encountering the group, making the Taliban the most-feared group after the Islamic State (94.9 percent). Meanwhile, only 38.6 percent of Afghans reported fear when encountering the Afghan National Army. This hints that integrating the Taliban will be a difficult process.
The lack of consensus on peace efforts and disagreement extends beyond the general public. Recently Ghani, based on Khalilzad’s suggestion, prepared a list of 12 people tapped to handle negotiations with the Taliban. Soon after the announcement, Afghan members of Parliament and political parties expressed suspicion over both the ability of the negotiation team and its inclusiveness. While political parties criticized the team and questioned whether the Taliban would agree to talk with them, a number of Afghan MPs raised questions over the influence of members of the negotiation team. In addition to this disagreement, Afghanpolitical partiescriticized Ghani’s general peace roadmap and said they were not included within the new peace plan.
The disagreement and lack of consensus goes beyond the national level as well. All parties involved in Afghan conflict seem to be convinced that military means aren’t the solution – and that for peace efforts to be successful there is need to have consensus at the international level. And yet that consensus is missing, as shown by the recent conference in Moscow. At the very beginning Afghanistan’s government rejected Russia’s invitation to participate in the conference and then sent members of the High Peace Council — but announced they were not official representatives of the Afghan government. The United States also rejected Moscow’s invitation to participate and cast doubt on Russia’sintentionto bring peace in Afghanistan (later, Washington did send a U.S. diplomat to attend the conference).
Experts discuss the fear of a “new Great Game” in Afghanistan and the country becoming a battlefield for regional and international powers. In April 2018 U.S. officials accused Russia of destabilizing Afghanistan by arming the Taliban and supplying weapons to the group. It is believed that one of the reasons for Russia’s move is frustration with U.S. long presence in Afghanistan. Another regional power, Iran, also stands accused of throwing fuel on the fire. Late in April 2018, while the fight between the Taliban and Afghan government intensified in the western province of Farah, the Afghan government complained that Iran was supplying weapons to the Taliban fighters there. The U.S. government too,has accused Iranof providing “military training, financing and weapons to the Taliban.”
It even appears that the Afghan government and U.S. special envoy for peace in Afghanistan don’tagree on a roadmapfor peace. Although reports indicate that Khalilzad has been given six months for Afghan peace efforts, Ghani’s speech at a recent conference in Geneva says the peace plan needs at least five years.
Against this backdrop, the survey findings for 2018 reveal a rise in the number of Afghans who opine that the Taliban are fighting because of foreign troop’s presence (15.2 percent). That’s up from just 6.4 percent last year. Meanwhile, some 11.1 percent of respondents said the Taliban are fighting because they are supported by Pakistan (roughly the same as last year), and 4.7 percent believe they are supported by unnamed foreign countries (a slight drop from 2017). The top reason cited for the ongoing conflict, however, remains the same: that the Taliban simply want to gain power.
Perceived reasons why the Taliban are fighting among respondents. Data from the 2018 Survey of the Afghan People.
Meanwhile, the Taliban’sstatementin an interview at a recent conference on Afghanistan peace efforts shows that the group’s view is unchanged from years ago. The group’s ideology does not acknowledge the gains Afghans have made since 2001 in terms of women rights, freedom of speech, elections, and the new constitution. This maybe the one of the reasons while the vast majority of Afghans (93.6 percent) in a survey expressed fear when encountering the group.
Soon after the fall of the Taliban in 2001, the Bonn conference was held to make the new Afghan government. Many Afghanistan experts believe that those talks were overly hasty; onemistakewas excluding the Taliban from the conference. Rushed peace talks that exclude or limit public participation have a high chance of failure – just like the Bonn conference on Afghanistan.
To craft a peace settlement that will endure and sustain for the long term, it will take participation by all stakeholders, both national and international. There is no sense in rushing forward.
Mohammad Shoaib Haidaryis aresearcher with the Asia Foundation Afghanistan and a contributing survey author for the Foundation’sannual survey of the Afghan people.
Get briefed on the story of the week, and developing stories to watch across the Asia-Pacific.










Title: Family of Mastung suicide bomber under training in Afghanistan for further attacks: report - Daily Pakistan English News
ISLAMABAD – The close relatives of the suicide bomber, who targeted election rally in Mastung area of Balochistan in July, are undergoing training in Afghanistan for more attacks in Pakistan, it has emerged.
According to an intelligence notification obtained by think tank Islamic Theology of Counter Terrorism, Pakistani intelligence believes that family members of Hafeez Nawaz aka Abu Bakr al-Bakistani, the Islamic State (IS) suicide bomber who targeted the rally of Siraj Raisani and martyred 149 people, are in Afghanistan with nefarious designs.
The report says the remaining family of Hafeez Nawaz is currently in an unknown location in Afghanistan at an ISKP training camp where they are planning to carry out more suicide missions in Pakistan.
ITCT also revealed that the relatives include 56-year-old mother, Bibi Zareen Jan, 29-year-old brother Abdul Aziz Nawaz and 19-years-old brother Shakoor Nawaz of Hafeez Nawaz to be in Pakistan’s Western neighboring state.
Maryam, Aisha, Samiya, and Safiya are four sisters of Hafeez Nawaz and their photos are not available

On 13th July 2018 during the election campaigning in Pakistan, a major suicide bombing claimed by Islamic State Khorasan (ISKP) group marred the election process in the war-battered province of Balochistan. The suicide bombing targeted campaign rally of a pro-government politician Siraj Raisani, who was left martyred in the attack.
Following the attack, Islamic State Khorasan (ISKP) group claimed responsibility via the Amaq Agency, the official propaganda channel of IS. Amaq also released the image of the masked suicide bomber named Abu Bakr al-Bakistani, whose facial features match those of Hafeez Nawaz, the man identified by Pakistani authorities as the Pakistani citizen who carried out the bombing. This confirms that Hafeez Nawaz and Abu Bakr al-Bakistani are indeed the same person.
One of Hafeez Nawaz’s brothers and his father were arrested by Pakistan’s Counter-Terrorism Department (CTD) in August from Banaras area of Karachi city; his father is named Muhammad Nawaz and his arrested brother is named Haq Nawaz.
During the initial probe, Muhammad Nawaz told police that his three sons (including Mastung bomber Hafeez Nawaz), his wife and four daughters had moved to Afghanistan on May 29. He told the police that initially his ‘suicide bomber’ son was associated with Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan’s Fazlullah group, but later on he joined ‘Daud Mehsud group’ and then finally he was recruited by Islamic State.
https://en.dailypakistan.com.pk/headline/nawabzada-siraj-raisani-among-dozens-injured-in-mastung-blast/
Moreover, two other accomplices of Hafeez Nawaz were also arrested in the same operation identified as Sheeraz alias Saifullah and Wali Ahmed alias Abu Ubaid. Both were identified as members of Jaish al-Adl group, which targets Iranian interests and recently kidnapped a dozen Iranian border guards from Iran-Pakistan border confirming the interlinkages between TTP, Jaish al-Adl and Islamic State.
The family of Hafeez Nawaz originally hailed from Molia village in Abbottabad but Hafeez Nawaz himself was a resident of Gharibabad Mohalla in Dhabeji, Thatta.
He had studied at an Islamic seminary in Karachi city’s Shah Faisal Colony for three years where he drifted towards militancy; a few of his colleagues at the seminary motivated him towards militancy and allegedly sent him to Afghanistan. Two of his Jaish al-Adl associates also studied there with him.
According to his father, his three daughters, who had been shifted to Afghanistan, were ‘Alima’ (religious scholars) and two of them had married IS militants there. His other two sons, Abdul Aziz and Abdul Shakoor, were also living in Afghanistan and Shakoor recently told his father that now “it’s his turn” to become a suicide bomber.
Hafeez Nawaz’s father along with his son used to sell milk and vegetables in the Dhabeji area.
As per the report of the think tank, the Pakistani intelligence said the father of suicide bomber did not show any remorse or sadness on realizing that his son had carried out a suicide attack in Mastung.
Hafeez Nawaz was recruited by Islamic State Khorasan (ISKP) group while he was working for TTP’s Haji Daud group.
Haji Daud, also known as Daud Policewala, was a policeman in Karachi till mid-2000. He was then appointed as the city chief of the banned Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) by now slain Mullah Fazlullah. Haji Daud later developed differences with Mullah Fazlullah and joined the Islamic State Khorasan (ISKP) group. He was also reportedly injured in a clash with TTP militants in Afghanistan.
Using forensics, Pakistani intelligence concluded that Hafeez Nawaz had arrived in Chaman, Pakistan from Afghanistan on June 29 and was also in touch with at least nine persons, including three belonging to Sindh. He later relocated to Qila Abdullah and subsequently to Mastung, where he finally carried out the suicide attack on Siraj Raisani’s election gathering.
After the Mastung attack, Pakistani security forces and intelligence agencies neutralized the Balochistan emir of IS, identified as Mufti Hidayatullah al-Balochi, in a counter-terrorism operation as the agencies believed him to be the mastermind of Mastung suicide bombing.
In September, Islamic State released issue no. 146 of its weekly al-Naba magazine, which featured a tribute article on Mufti Hidayatullah al-Balochi.
Just two days before the Mastung suicide bombing, Pakistani security institutions released multiple threat alert notifications warning of possible bombings and assassinations.
The existence of IS in Pakistan was confirmed by a police officer as in 2015, during a parliamentary panel briefing, Inspector General Police (IGP) Sindh Ghulam Hyder Jamali admitted that IS is active in Sindh province.
“All intelligence agencies and security forces were on the same page to eradicate terrorism from Sindh, which had resulted in an 80% drop in terror attacks and a 53% decline in targeted killings,” he had said.
A report on 2017 terrorist activity in Pakistan issued by Islamabad-based think tank Pakistan Pakistan Institute for Peace Studies (PIPS) earlier this year in January revealed that IS activity is on the rise across Pakistan, and in northern Sindh in particular.
“In 2017, IS claimed as many as six deadly attacks, in which 153 people were killed, across Pakistan,” the report stated.
Copyright ©2024. Reproduction of this website's content without express written permission from 'Daily Pakistan' is strictly prohibited.

Title: Taliban Unmasked: Afghan Taliban’s Continued Symbiotic Relationship with al Qaeda and International Terrorism | Small Wars Journal
Taliban Unmasked: Afghan Taliban’s Continued Symbiotic Relationship with al Qaeda and International Terrorism

Tamim Asey

At a recent peace conference in Moscow, Taliban representatives sat in front of the Russian media and gave interviews to a select number of Russian women journalists. It was a message of change when compared to their brutal regime and their repressive policies toward Afghan women. Themove was calculated and strategic; it was meantto send a message to the world that they have changed andare no longera threat to regional and global security. The question is, have they really changed and cut ties with Al Qaeda and its allies? Are they different after almost two decades of fighting? Has the Taliban movement been fundamentally transformed, or they have just become ‘good politicians’, i.e. pretenders, sugarcoating themselves into a new role only to change later once they once again assume power?

On the other hand, US and its NATO allies feel they are bear-trapped in Afghanistan and are risk averse. They are in a rush to a graceful exit foritsforceswith political cover claiminga successful conclusion to the Afghan war. This mindset has led topretending the Afghan Taliban have changed, and they are now effectively representing an insurgency against an Afghan government marked by corruption, warlordism and a lack of a broad-based government in Kabul.This is a huge simplification of a much more complex problem with regional and global dimensions – without even a mention concerning the role they played in haphazard and quick fix policies and an unwillingness to address the big elephant in the room - Taliban safe-havens across the border in Pakistan under the cover and support of the notorious Pakistani Inter Service Intelligence Service (ISI).

The bottom-line remains just as it has over the last 17 years - the Afghan Talibanhavenot changed and has deep ties with remnants of Al Qaeda and regional terror organizations - afact long known to Western and regional intelligence agencies.TheTaliban, as a group, haven’t changed in nature and its objectives. Itstill serves as an umbrella organization to many terrorist organizations including Al Qaeda and provide them an enabling environment to plan, train and equip for their next deadly missions in the subcontinent and beyond. Any scheme to use Talibanas a proxy forcefor fighting Al Qaeda and ISKP will be an exercise in futility. Taliban and its allies continue to pose security threats to the United States and its allies. Though, what has really changed about the Taliban is their increasing legitimacy as a proxy force and guns for hire by regional security agencies. Today - there are at least six different factions within the Taliban on the payroll of Afghan neighbors and their security establishments. Pakistan no longer controls a monopoly of control over the Taliban as a proxy force and their many shuras, i.e. councils, in many Pakistani cities. The Taliban are effectively a rag-tag force for hire to the highest regional bidder – and is one with deep ties to organized crime in the region.

The Taliban and Al Qaeda

The Taliban and Al Qaeda still enjoy a cosy and intimate relationship. Taliban leaders from the Quetta shura participated in the coronation ceremony of Bin Laden’s son as his successor while Al Qaeda’s second-in-command paid his tribute and declared loyalty to both the former Taliban Emir, Mullah Akhtar Mohammad Mansoor, and the incumbent leader of Taliban, Maulavi Haibatullah Akhund, who have both enjoyed religious and political support from Al Qaeda leadership. Furthermore, Al Qaeda’s leader, Ayman Al Zawahiri, has sent delegations to mediate between Taliban leaders when differences emerged between different factions within the Taliban on matters related to leadership succession, logistics, war and peace. Al Qaeda has also used its network of fundraisers in the Gulf countries to raise funds for the “Taliban jihad” in Afghanistan.

Just after 9/11,President George W. Bush inannouncing a global war on terror andOperation Enduring Freedom, laid out three conditions for the Taliban regime to remain in power:cut ties with Al Qaeda, hand over Osama Bin Laden and respect human rights.Almost two decades later, Taliban leaders continue to receive advice, financial support - albeit meager - and host Al Qaeda’s second in command Ayman Al Zawahiri; Osama bin Laden was not handedoverand lived under the protection of the Taliban and their Pakistani sponsors until the job was done by American Special Operations and finally the Taliban continue to violate human rights en mass and provide sanctuary to regional terror outfits such as ETIM, Al Qaeda, LeT and the like.Those who legitimize the Taliban as merely an insurgent group with no ambitions beyond Afghanistan should simply look at their brothers in arms in different battles i.e. Punjabis, Arabs, Uzbeks, Uighurs and others. Today, one third of the battlefield manpower of Taliban consist of foreign fighters who fight under the command and rank of Taliban across Afghanistan.Why call them merely an insurgency and provide them political cover while sugarcoating their actions and intentions two decades later?

The United States toppled the Taliban regime because it hosted and provided enablers for Osama Bin Laden and his lieutenants who carried out the tragic attacks of 9/11, not because they were running a reign of terror on Afghans. How have we come to calling this terror group an insurgency fighting for an internal cause?The truth is that the Taliban have neither changed in nature nor in objectives. It is still serving as an umbrella organization and incubator of various terrorist groups. It has not shown, neither in word nor in action, that it has denounced Al Qaeda and cut its ties with all terrorist organizations. Any other portrayal of this group is puremyth and a political convenience.

The Taliban and ISKP

The old maxim of “the enemy of my enemy is my friend” does not hold true when it comes to using the Taliban as a proxy force to fight Islamic State offshoots in the AfPak region. While the approach and organization of the two groups may be different but essentially the Taliban movement share the same religious ideology and world view as IS. ISKP is a mixture of disenchanted Taliban and various jihadi groups members with a flavor of various regional intelligence projects. Taliban have never fought ISKP groups in any part of Afghanistan in a meaningful way. Often, Taliban operations against ISKP were retaliatory in nature or based on orders from the Iranian Revolutionary Guard, Russian KGB or the Pakistani ISI for clearance operations along Afghan-Iranian and Afghan-Pakistani borders. The Taliban, to date, lack a coherent anti-Daesh campaign whereas Afghan forces have killed at least three ISKP emirs, and dozens of its deputies and mid-ranking commanders.

In fact – the Taliban have pooled resources and joined hands with ISKP in certain parts of Afghanistan - especially in the north and north eastern parts of the country to fight Afghan forces. There is also a close relationship between the Haqqani, the Taliban’s off-shoot fighting arm, and ISKP – it’s almost an alliance since a close member of the Haqqani family is considered to be one of the founders of an ISKP branch.

The Taliban and Regional Terrorist Groups

The Taliban movement continues to serve as an umbrella organization for regional terrorist groups fromPakistani.e. LeT, JeM, Sepah e Sahaba and the likes;Arab-mercenary fighters from Libya, Iraq and Syria;Central Asia- IMU, Ansarullah, Jundullah;China- ETIM;Russia- various Chechen groups. These groups bring critical skill set and resources to the Taliban leadership and battlefield that includes explosive making, effective command and control - and above all - extortion through organized crime. One third of the strength of Taliban fighters on various battlefields are foreign fighters from a mixture of these groups. This was the case when the Taliban regime was in power in the 1990s and they used these groups in battles against the former recognized government of Afghanistan led by former President Burhannuddin Rabbani.

Today, Pakistani, Arab, Central Asian, Russia and Chinese terrorist groups who are fighting in Afghanistan provide critical skill sets, i.e. command and control, explosives and bomb making, in their fight against US, NATO and Afghan forces. On the contrary, the foreign fighters are merely transit fighters, many of whom will jump at the first opportunity of waging jihad and attacking targets in their countries of origin, except for Pakistani fighters who are almost state-sanctioned.

The Cost of the Taliban Returning to Power

Taliban have not yet demonstrated, in word or action, that they have cut ties with Al Qaeda; no longer serve as an umbrella and incubator to regional and global terrorist organizations and will not serve as another Hezbollah type proxy group to Russia and Iran. Therefore, any effort of legitimization of this group as an indigenous insurgent group with no agenda beyond Afghan borders is an exercise in futility because their return to power would embolden their terrorist allies and reinforce their conservative Islamic view of the world. This essentially means we are back to ground-zero and that the sacrifices of US, NATO and Afghans in blood and national-treasure were in vein. To avoid such a scenario, the United States together with Afghans needs to reach consensus on three major points:
Any measures short of these actions will only serve to emboldened Islamic terrorist groups, aid in the resurgence of Al Qaeda, and lead to a possible civil war in Afghanistan with the current Afghan government and security forces in disarray and a party to it. Time and credible action are of essence here.

Tamim Asey is the former Afghan Deputy Minister of Defense and Director General at the Afghan National Security Council. He is currently pursuing a Ph.D in Security studies in London. He can be reached via twitter @tamimasey and Facebook @Tamim Asey
©2005-2020
Small Wars Journal is published bySmall Wars Foundation- a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation.Original content is published under aCreative Commons Licenseper ourTerms of Use.
© Copyright 2024| Site by3C Web Services

Title: Afghan Taliban’s Continued Symbiotic Relationship With Al Qaeda And International Terrorism – Analysis – Eurasia Review
A Journal of Analysis and News

Taliban fighters in Afghanistan. Source: Wikipedia Commons.
ByTamim Asey*
In a recent peace conference in Moscow, Taliban representatives from their office in Qatar sat in front of the Russian media cameras and gave interview to a select number of Russian women journalists. It was a message of change as compared to their brutal regime and their repressive policies towards Afghan women. The move was calculated and strategic; it was to send a message to the world that they have changed and no more a threat to regional and global security. Question is have they really changed and cut ties with Al Qaeda and its allies? Are they really different after almost two decades of fighting? Has the Taliban movement been fundamentally transformed or they have just become really good politicians i.e. pretenders and sugarcoating themselves into a new role only to change later on once they assume power.
On the other hand – US and its NATO allies feel they are bear trapped in Afghanistan and are risk averse. They are in a rush to a graceful exit for its forces with a political cover as a successful conclusion to the Afghan war. This mindset has made them to pretend that the Afghan Taliban have changed and they are now effectively representing an insurgency against the Afghan government born out of corruption, warlordism and a lack of a broad-based government in Kabul. A mere simplification of a much more complex problem with regional and global dimensions not to mention the role they played through their haphazard and quick fix policies and their unwillingness to address the big elephant in the room which are Taliban safe havens across the border in Pakistan under the cover and support of the notorious Pakistani inter service intelligence service (ISI).
The fact of the matter remains that the Afghan Taliban have not changed and has deep ties with remnants of Al Qaeda and regional terror outfits. A fact long known to western and regional intelligence agencies. Taliban, as a group, haven’t changed in nature and its objectives. It still serves as an umbrella organization to many terrorist organisations including Al Qaeda and provide them the enabling environment to plan, train and equip for their next deadly missions in the subcontinent and beyond. Any scheme to use Taliban as a proxy force for fighting Al Qaeda and ISKP will be an exercise in futility. Taliban and its allies continue to pose security threats to the United States and its allies west. Though, what has really changed about the Taliban is their increasing legitimacy as a proxy force and gun for hire by the regional security agencies. Today – there are at least six different factions within the Taliban on the payroll of Afghan neighbors and their security establishments. Pakistan no longer controls the monopoly of control over the Taliban as a proxy force and their many shuras i.e. councils in different Pakistani cities. Taliban are effectively a rug-tag force for hire to the highest regional bidder with deep ties to organized crime in the region.
Taliban and Al Qaeda still enjoy a cozy and intimate relationship. Taliban leaders from the Quetta shura participated in the coronation ceremony of Bin Laden son as his successor while Al Qaeda second-in-command paid his tribute and declared loyalty to both former Taliban Emir, Mullah Akhtar Mohammad Mansoor and the incumbent leader of Taliban, Maulavi Haibatullah Akhund, who have both enjoyed religious and political support from Al Qaeda leader. Furthermore, Al Qaeda leader, Ayman Al Zawahiri, has sent from time to time delegations to mediate inbetween Taliban leaders when differences emerged between different faction within the Taliban on matters related to leadership succession, logistics, war and peace. Al Qaeda have also used its network of fundraisers in the Gulf countries to raise funds for the “Taliban jihad” in Afghanistan.
After 9/11, President Bush before announcing global war on terror and operation enduring freedom laid out three conditions for the Taliban regime to remain in power: cut ties with Al Qaeda, hand over Osama Bin Laden and respect human rights. Almost two decades later, Taliban leaders continue to receive advice, financial support albeit meager and host Al Qaeda second in command Ayman Al Zawahiri; Osama bin Laden was not handed over and lived under the protection of Taliban and their Pakistani sponsors until the job was done by American NAVY SEALS and finally Taliban continue to violate human rights en mass and provide sanctuary to regional terror outfits such as ETIM, AL QAEDA, ETIM, LeT and the likes. Taliban to date remain a credible security threat to the region and the world at large. Those who legitimise this group as merely an insurgent group with no ambitions beyond Afghanistan should simply look at their brothers in arms in different battles i.e. Punjabis, Arabs, Uzbeks, Uighurs and the likes. Today one third of the battled field manpower of Taliban consist of foreign fighters who fight under the command and rank of Taliban in various battled fields across Afghanistan. Question is why term them an insurgency and provide them with political cover and sugarcoating two decades later on?
The United States toppled the Taliban regime because it hosted and provided the enablers for Osama Bin Laden and his lieutenants who carried out the tragic attacks of September 11 not because they were running a reign of terror on Afghans. How come this same yesteryears terror group have turned into an insurgent group fighting for an internal cause? The truth is that the Taliban have neither changed in nature nor in objectives. It is still serving as an umbrella organisation and incubator of various terrorist groups. It has not shown neither in word nor in action that it has denounced Al Qaeda and cut its ties with all terrorist organisations. Any other portrayal of this group is pure myth and political convenience.
The formula of “the enemy of my enemy is my friend” does not hold truth when it comes to using Taliban as a proxy force to fight Islamic State off shoot in the AfPak region. While the approach and organisation of the two groups may be different but essentially the Taliban movement share the same religious ideology and world view as IS. ISKP is a mixture of disenchanted Taliban and various jihadi groups members with a flavor of various regional intelligence projects. Taliban have never fought ISKP groups in any part of Afghanistan in a meaningful way. More often than not, Taliban operations against ISKP were retaliatory in nature or based on orders from Iranian revolutionary guard, Russian KGB or the Pakistani ISI for clearance operations along Afghan Iranian and Afghan Pakistani borders. Taliban to date lack a coherent anti-Daesh campaign whereas Afghan forces have killed more three ISKP emirs, dozens of its deputies and mid ranking commanders.
In fact, Taliban have pooled resources and joined hands with ISKP in certain parts of Afghanistan especially in the north and northeastern part of the country to fight Afghan forces. While they have fought each other over resources, territory and population centers in eastern and southern Afghanistan. There is also a close relationships between the Haqqani, Taliban’s fighting arm and ISKP, almost an alliance since a close member of the Haqqani family is considered to be one of the founders of ISKP branch in AfPak area.
Taliban movement continue to serve as an umbrella organisation for regional terrorist groups from Pakistan i.e. LeT, JeM, Sepah e Sahaba and the likes; Arab -mercenary fighters from Libya, Iraq and Syria; Central Asia – IMU, Ansarullah, Jundullah; China – ETIM; Russian – various Chechen groups. These groups bring critical skill set and resources to the Taliban leadership and battlefield such as explosive making, effective command and control and above all extortion through organised crime. One third of the strength of the Taliban fighters in various battlefields are foreign fighters from a mixture of these groups. This was the exact case when the Taliban regime was in power in 1990s and they used these groups in their battles against the former recognised government of Afghanistan led by former President Burhannuddin Rabbani.
Today – Pakistani, Arab, Central Asian, Russia and Chinese terrorist groups who are fighting in Afghanistan provide critical skill sets i.e. command and control, explosives and bomb making in their fights against US, NATO and Afghan forces. On the contrast, the foreign fighters are merely transit fighters many of whom will jump to the first opportunity of waging jihad and attacking targets in their countries of origin with the exception of Pakistani fighters who are almost state sanctioned fighters.
Taliban have not yet demonstrated in word or action that they have cut ties with Al Qaeda; no longer serve as an umbrella and incubator to regional and global terrorist organisations such as IMU, ETIM, LeT, Sepah and the likes and will not serve as another Hezbollah type proxy group to Russia and Iran. Therefore, any effort of legitimisation of this group as an indigenous insurgent group with no agenda beyond Afghan borders is an exercise in futile because their return to power will embolden their terrorist allies and enforce their conservative Islamic view of the world. This essentially means we are back to zero and all the sacrifices of US, NATO and Afghans in blood and treasure were in vein. To avoid such a scenario, the United States together with Afghan neighbors to reach consensus on three major points: a. Taliban movement should publicly cut ties with Al Qaeda and other terrorist group and shun away their fighters from their ranks. b. Under military pressure bow down to a political settlement. c. provide guarantees it won’t serve as an armed proxy group for regional players including Iran and Russia.
Any measure short of these actions will only lead to an emboldened Islamic terrorist groups, resurgence of Al Qaeda, higher level of threats to US and its western allies and a possible civil war in Afghanistan with the current Afghan government and security forces in disarray and a party to it. Time and credible action is of essence here.
*Tamim Aseyis the former Afghan Deputy Minister of Defense and Director General at the Afghan National Security Council. He is currently pursuing a Ph.D in Security studies in London. He can be reached via twitter @tamimasey and Facebook @Tamim Asey.
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Name*
Email*
Website

What is the MENA region? MENA is the acronym for “Middle East and North Africa”, regularly used in academic and
This article is just plain wrong! The author may have a professorship, but his academic rigor is very poor. To…
there are legitimate reasons for USA to dissolve. the country is divided and bankrupt whoever wins the next election will…
THIS IS ONE OF THE WORSE PIECES EVER POSTED ON EURASIA REVIEW, MOST RACIST, ANTI-SEMITIC ANTI-UKRAINIAN RANT. WHY DID ER…
This is either the most self-deceiving rose-tinted spectacles view of Russia I have ever read, or a despicable set of…
It is wishful thinking to expect Gwadar Port to be a game changer for Pakistan. It has not materialized so…

Title: Understanding the American morality in negotiating with terrorists and abandoning Afghanistan
Author :Kriti M. Shah
Image Source:John Moore / Getty ImagesUS Army soldiers recording biometric data from men entering Afghanistan at the border crossing with Pakistan
US Army soldiers recording biometric data from men entering Afghanistan at the border crossing with Pakistan

Seventeen years after the United States first entered Afghanistan, the Americans may finally be coming home.President Trumphas ordered for the beginning of a reduction in troop numbers in the country, following his decision to pull military forces from Syria as well. US assistance has been crucial in building Afghanistan a military, democratic institutions, civilian organisations as well as an independent media. While there is no doubt that Afghanistan today, is a much stronger, hopeful nation than it was before 2001; if the US objective when they entered the country, was to defeat the Taliban and al-Qaeda and ensure that Afghanistan is never used as a launch pad for terrorist attacks, they have failed in their mission.


The war Afghanistan has been the US’s longest war yet, costing the US over a$1 trillion. Their role in the country is two-fold, a bilateral counter terrorism mission along with the Afghan forces and participation in Operation Resolute Support, the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or NATO’s mission in the country to train, advise and assist the Afghan security forces. According to reports, over 7,000 American soldiers could return home in the coming weeks.


Today the Afghan governmentcontrolsonly half or 56.3% of the total districts in the country. Since 2001, over 2,400 American soldiers have been killed in the country and since 2015, more than astaggering 28,000Afghan police officers and soldiers. Failure to defeat the Taliban militarily has led previous US administrations to explore the idea of political reconciliation with the Taliban. Over the years, this idea has evolved and expanded. The Taliban has moved from being seen as a terrorist group, to an insurgency movement to an armed political movement with strong, conservative political aspirations. In September 2018, Washington appointed a special representative to Afghanistan with the objective of getting the Taliban and the government to the negotiating table. Theprolonged nature of the conflictin the country has created a large number of international stakeholders. A number of nations, along with the United States, such as Norway, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, UAE, Iran, Pakistan, Russia and China, have at some stage and diplomatic level had dialogues with the Taliban, complicating the process as well as reducing prospects for regional consensus on ending the war. All of this has made peace, an elusive dream for Afghans and Americans alike.





Given the situation on the ground and the inability of the international and Afghan forces to collectively defeat the Taliban, the consequences of a drawdown in forces will significantly impact and alter the political climate and security situation in the country.





Trump cannot be faulted for wanting to end the war and score a domestic political victory by bringing the troops home, but the tactical implications of a withdrawal matter and affect American national security interests. First and foremost, a US drawdown at a time when the Taliban control and contest a large amount of territory, shows the group that they have been successful in resisting United States forces. The Taliban does not have to seize control over the entire country in order to win, they just have to hold on until the US gives up. After a 17 year-long involvement in the country, war-weary Washington is showing signs of doing just that. Areduction in forcesallows the Taliban to bolster their efforts to gain more territory, thereby putting the Kabul government who are seeking peace, in a weaker bargaining position with the group.


This in turn, will mean that by its own standards, Pakistan has been successful in usingjihadas a tool to meet its foreign policy objectives. Islamabad’s sponsorship and assistance of terrorist groups to fight US forces in Afghanistan remains a part of the nation’s national security strategy. Should the US leave Afghanistan, or the Taliban make military or political gains vis-à-vis the government, Pakistan’s tactic of militant sponsorship will be vindicated.





Not only will this further weaken the Kabul government, that already suffers from political infighting and heavy corruption, it will enhance the Pakistani state’s control beyond its own territorial borders.





When a terrorist group is backed by a state, it serves little purpose to negotiate with the terrorist group and not the state that sponsors them. An end to the Afghan war, will need to coincide with a harsh, long-term change in strategy towards Pakistan. Unless terrorist and radical militant infrastructure is systematically dismantled from Pakistan’s core, the problem of South Asianjihadwill continue to plague the region for generations. The rise and resilience of the Islamic State Khorasan (ISKP), in eastern Afghanistan along the Pakistan border demonstrates that terror activity along the Durand Line is active, just as it was in the before, the hotbed that caused the September 2001 attacks in the first place.


Whether the United States follows through on its plan to withdraw forces, now or later is irrelevant. The question is, what sort of peace can Afghans afford to make now? Will political reconciliation mean a power sharing agreement with the Taliban? Will Afghan forces who have suffered immeasurably at the hand of Taliban fighters, be asked to fight alongside them? What will the government have to concede in order for there to be peace in the country? The answers are unclear and nobody seems to be asking the questions.


The Taliban today is different from the one led by Mullah Omar before. The organisation is no longer a monolith, divided into smaller factions with a number of deserters moving to fight under the ISKP flag. Despite the loss of two of its leaders, the group has managed to retain certain organizational cohesion, further strengthened by commanders who are moretech-savvyand social-media friendly.





Taliban's ability to remain standing despite the might of US forces, has been a popular recruitment tactic and morale booster for the fighters to continue. They are now more assertive than ever, attacking US and Afghan forces with impunity.





The United States must therefore, not underestimate or downplay the Taliban’s ideological commitment to what they want from the future in Afghanistan. TheTaliban’s conditionsare for there to be a complete withdrawal of international forces, a removal of Taliban leaders names from international blacklists and a larger role for Islamic law in Afghan institutions. They refuse to negotiate with Kabul, because they believe they have no political authority to negotiate. The Taliban government was overthrown by the US and it is from them that they need assurances they will never return. The US must however strongly state their intention, that the international community will continue to make long term commitments to further develop and strengthen the country. The justification given to the perceived morality in negotiating with terrorists to achieve peace, comes from a place of desperation. It is tempting to leave the country and return home after 17 years, and let Afghans deal with the Taliban as they see fit.  However, the Afghan quagmire of insecurity means that the US exit will make the country more prone to external manipulation and increase the odds of Afghanistan falling back down the slippery slope of radical militant Islam.

Kriti M. Shah was Associate Fellow with the Strategic Studies Programme at ORF. Her research primarily focusses on Afghanistan and Pakistan where she studies their ...
ORF © 2024Website Design and Development bySterco Digitex

Title: Understanding American Morality In Negotiating With Terrorists And Abandoning Afghanistan – Analysis – Eurasia Review
A Journal of Analysis and News

Taliban in Afghanistan. Photo Credit: Tasnim News Agency.
ByObserver Research Foundation
By Kriti M. Shah
Seventeen years after the United States first entered Afghanistan, the Americans may finally be coming home.President Trumphas ordered for the beginning of a reduction in troop numbers in the
country, following his decision to pull military forces from Syria as
well. US assistance has been crucial in building Afghanistan a military,
democratic institutions, civilian organisations as well as an
independent media. While there is no doubt that Afghanistan today, is a
much stronger, hopeful nation than it was before 2001; if the US
objective when they entered the country, was to defeat the Taliban and
al-Qaeda and ensure that Afghanistan is never used as a launch pad for
terrorist attacks, they have failed in their mission.
The war Afghanistan has been the US’s longest war yet, costing the US over a$1 trillion.
Their role in the country is two-fold, a bilateral counter terrorism
mission along with the Afghan forces and participation in Operation
Resolute Support, the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or NATO’s
mission in the country to train, advise and assist the Afghan security
forces. According to reports, over 7,000 American soldiers could return
home in the coming weeks.
Today the Afghan governmentcontrolsonly half or 56.3% of the total districts in the country. Since 2001,
over 2,400 American soldiers have been killed in the country and since
2015, more than astaggering 28,000Afghan police officers and soldiers. Failure to defeat the Taliban
militarily has led previous US administrations to explore the idea of
political reconciliation with the Taliban. Over the years, this idea has
evolved and expanded. The Taliban has moved from being seen as a
terrorist group, to an insurgency movement to an armed political
movement with strong, conservative political aspirations. In September
2018, Washington appointed a special representative to Afghanistan with
the objective of getting the Taliban and the government to the
negotiating table. Theprolonged nature of the conflictin the country has created a large number of international
stakeholders. A number of nations, along with the United States, such as
Norway, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, UAE, Iran, Pakistan, Russia and China,
have at some stage and diplomatic level had dialogues with the Taliban,
complicating the process as well as reducing prospects for regional
consensus on ending the war. All of this has made peace, an elusive
dream for Afghans and Americans alike.
Given the situation on the ground and the inability of the international and Afghan forces to collectively defeat the Taliban, the consequences of a drawdown in forces will significantly impact and alter the political climate and security situation in the country.
Trump cannot be faulted for wanting to end the war and score a domestic political victory by bringing the troops home, but the tactical implications of a withdrawal matter and affect American national security interests.
First and foremost, a US drawdown at a time when the Taliban control and contest a large amount of territory, shows the group that they have been successful in resisting United States forces. The Taliban does not have to seize control over the entire country in order to win, they just have to hold on until the US gives up. After a 17 year-long involvement in the country, war-weary Washington is showing signs of doing just that. Areduction in forcesallows the Taliban to bolster their efforts to gain more territory, thereby putting the Kabul government who are seeking peace, in a weaker bargaining position with the group.
This in turn, will mean that by its own standards, Pakistan has been successful in usingjihadas a tool to meet its foreign policy objectives. Islamabad’s
sponsorship and assistance of terrorist groups to fight US forces in
Afghanistan remains a part of the nation’s national security strategy.
Should the US leave Afghanistan, or the Taliban make military or
political gains vis-à-vis the government, Pakistan’s tactic of militant
sponsorship will be vindicated.
Not only will this further weaken the Kabul government, that already suffers from political infighting and heavy corruption, it will enhance the Pakistani state’s control beyond its own territorial borders.
When
a terrorist group is backed by a state, it serves little purpose to
negotiate with the terrorist group and not the state that sponsors them.
An end to the Afghan war, will need to coincide with a harsh, long-term
change in strategy towards Pakistan. Unless terrorist and radical
militant infrastructure is systematically dismantled from Pakistan’s
core, the problem of South Asianjihadwill continue to plague
the region for generations. The rise and resilience of the Islamic State
Khorasan (ISKP), in eastern Afghanistan along the Pakistan border
demonstrates that terror activity along the Durand Line is active, just
as it was in the before, the hotbed that caused the September 2001
attacks in the first place.
Whether the
United States follows through on its plan to withdraw forces, now or
later is irrelevant. The question is, what sort of peace can Afghans
afford to make now? Will political reconciliation mean a power sharing
agreement with the Taliban? Will Afghan forces who have suffered
immeasurably at the hand of Taliban fighters, be asked to fight
alongside them? What will the government have to concede in order for
there to be peace in the country? The answers are unclear and nobody
seems to be asking the questions.
The
Taliban today is different from the one led by Mullah Omar before. The
organisation is no longer a monolith, divided into smaller factions with
a number of deserters moving to fight under the ISKP flag. Despite the
loss of two of its leaders, the group has managed to retain certain
organizational cohesion, further strengthened by commanders who are moretech-savvyand social-media friendly.
Taliban’s ability to remain standing despite the might of US forces, has been a popular recruitment tactic and morale booster for the fighters to continue. They are now more assertive than ever, attacking US and Afghan forces with impunity.
The
United States must therefore, not underestimate or downplay the
Taliban’s ideological commitment to what they want from the future in
Afghanistan. TheTaliban’s conditionsare for there to be a complete withdrawal of international forces, a
removal of Taliban leaders names from international blacklists and a
larger role for Islamic law in Afghan institutions. They refuse to
negotiate with Kabul, because they believe they have no political
authority to negotiate. The Taliban government was overthrown by the US
and it is from them that they need assurances they will never return.
The US must however strongly state their intention, that the
international community will continue to make long term commitments to
further develop and strengthen the country. The justification given to
the perceived morality in negotiating with terrorists to achieve peace,
comes from a place of desperation. It is tempting to leave the country
and return home after 17 years, and let Afghans deal with the Taliban as
they see fit.  However, the Afghan quagmire of insecurity means that
the US exit will make the country more prone to external manipulation
and increase the odds of Afghanistan falling back down the slippery
slope of radical militant Islam.
ORF was established on 5 September 1990 as a private, not for profit, ’think tank’ to influence public policy formulation. The Foundation brought together, for the first time, leading Indian economists and policymakers to present An Agenda for Economic Reforms in India. The idea was to help develop a consensus in favour of economic reforms.
TTP is based in Afghanistan and only attacks Pakistan. TTP leader Mullah Radio Fazlullah was found and killed in Afghanistan. Baluch terrorists live in luxurious compounds in posh suburbs of Kandahar- sometimes meeting untimely end such as Aslam Baloch. Why should US bear the burden of this immorality? Siding with one bad guy killing another does not further US interests.
It is abundantly clear that whenever US leaves, nature will take its course and Pashtuns will prevail.If India wants to save Kabul set-up then India should send troops and 40 Billion annual payments- putting your money where your mouth is…….
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Name*
Email*
Website

Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) is a field within artificial intelligence (AI) where researchers are working to develop a computer system that can
This article is just plain wrong! The author may have a professorship, but his academic rigor is very poor. To…
there are legitimate reasons for USA to dissolve. the country is divided and bankrupt whoever wins the next election will…
THIS IS ONE OF THE WORSE PIECES EVER POSTED ON EURASIA REVIEW, MOST RACIST, ANTI-SEMITIC ANTI-UKRAINIAN RANT. WHY DID ER…
This is either the most self-deceiving rose-tinted spectacles view of Russia I have ever read, or a despicable set of…
It is wishful thinking to expect Gwadar Port to be a game changer for Pakistan. It has not materialized so…

Title: No Respite from Suicide Bombings in Particular and Terror Attacks At Large Inside Afghanistan | Ajit Kumar Singh | New Age Islam | Islamic News and Views | Moderate Muslims & Islam



By Ajit Kumar Singh
December 3, 2018
On November 28, 2018, at least 10 people were killed and another 29 injured in a suicide attack in Kabul City (District), the national capital.
On November 23, 2018, at least 10 soldiers of the 2nd Regiment of the Afghan National Army (ANA) were killed in a suicide attack that targeted soldiers inside a mosque at their base in the Mandozai District of Khost Province. Another 15 soldiers were injured in the explosion.
On November 20, 2018, at least 55 people were killed and 94 injured in a suicide bombing conducted inside the Uranus Wedding Hall in Kabul City.
According to partial data compiled by the South Asia Terrorism Portal (SATP), at least 822 people have died in 64 suicide attacks across Afghanistan in the current year (data till November 30, 2018). There were 613 fatalities in 52 such attacks through 2017; and 503 fatalities in 43 incidents in 2016.
According to the Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict: Annual Report 2017 had already recorded the highest number of civilian casualties (both in terms of deaths and injuries separately) caused by suicide attacks in Afghanistan since 2009, when United Nations Assistance Mission’s (UNAMA) started documenting civilian fatalities in Afghanistan.According to the report, there were 2,295 civilian casualties (605 deaths and 1,690 injuries) due to suicide attacks in 2017. The previous highest of number of deaths (488) was recorded in 2011, while previous highest of injuries (1,565) were reported in 2016.
Casualties in suicide attacks have been on the rise since 2009, with the exception of years 2010, 2012, and 2013. According to latest quarterly report by Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict released on October 10, 2018, between January 1, 2018, and September 30, 2018, there have been 2,243 civilian casualties (714 deaths and 1,629 injuries) in suicide attacks.
Civilian Deaths and Injuries in Suicide Attacks in Afghanistan: 2009-2017
Source: UNAMA
-------
Significantly, as SAIR noted earlier, despite 30 years of warfare, Afghanistan had never experienced a suicide attack until September 9, 2001, when the Northern Alliance Commander Ahmad Shah Masood was assassinated at Khwaja Bahauddin in Takhar Province by two Arab al Qaeda suicide bombers. With this event, Afghanistan was thrust into a new chapter of armed conflict. According to partial data compiled by the Institute for Conflict Management (ICM) from media reports, Afghanistan witnessed 421 incidents of suicide attacks between September 9, 2001, and December 31, 2008, resulting in 1,231 fatalities. Thereafter, between January 1, 2009, and September 30, 2018, UNAMA has recorded more than 654 suicide attacks resulting in 14,248 casualties 3,274 deaths and 10,974 injuries). [No. of suicide attacks for year 2009 and 2018 is not available]
Neighbouring Pakistan, which is primarily responsible for the consistently deteriorating security scenario in Afghanistan, remains the principal source of the continuing menace of suicide attacks. According to a report titled Suicide Attacks in Afghanistan (2001-2007) released by UNAMA on September 1, 2007,
…While suicide attackers elsewhere in the world tend not to be poor and uneducated, Afghanistan’s attackers appear to be young, uneducated and often drawn from madaris across the border in Pakistan… The tribal areas of Pakistan remain an important source of human and material assistance for suicide attacks in Afghanistan…
The report also disclosed,
…Considerable dispute persists over the identity of the attackers, with some analysts contending that they are now overwhelmingly Afghan, even if foreigners such as Arabs and Pakistanis were involved in the early attacks. Others still insist that the attackers are foreigners or Afghans who have spent much of their lives in Pakistan… President Hamid Karzai [the then President], as well as Afghan intelligence and other Afghan authorities, have tended to claim that the attackers originate from Pakistan with the implications that they are Pakistanis…
The evidence of involvement continues to crop up. Referring to a spate of suicide attacks in January 2018 Mohammad Stanekzai, the head of Afghanistan's spy agency, National Directorate of Security (NDS) on February 1, 2018, categorically stated on February 1, 2018, “We asked Pakistan to hand over the culprits of the attacks in Afghanistan and we shared undeniable evidence that the attacks were planned there”. More recently, on October 23, 2018, President Ashraf Ghani observed, “I want to say that this conspiracy was plotted in Pakistan. So Pakistan should give us the criminals so that we can bring them to justice.” He was referring to the killing of Kandahar Police Commander Gen. Abdul Raziq in Kandahar City (District), the capital of Kandahar Province, on October 18, 2018.
The principal architect of the initial upsurge of suicide attacks was senior Taliban ‘commander’ Mullah Dadullah aka Dadullah Akhund, who targeted Afghan and Western troops in Southern Afghanistan. Though Dadullah was killed in a raid by International Security Assistance Force troops in Kandahar City on May 12, 2007, the trend of suicide bombings continues to terrorise Afghanistan. The Taliban remains the primary player. According to UNAMA’s latest quarterly report released on October 10, 2018,
…From 1 January to 30 September 2018, Anti-Government Elements caused 5,243 civilian casualties (1,743 deaths and 3,500 injured), accounting for 65 per cent of all civilian casualties, approximately the same as in the first nine months of 2017. Of the 65 per cent of civilian casualties attributed to Anti-Government Elements, 35 per cent were attributed to Taliban, 25 per cent to Daesh/ISKP, and five per cent to unidentified Anti Government Elements (including less than one per cent to self-proclaimed Daesh/ISKP)…
There were a total of 2,798 deaths in Afghanistan during this period.
It has long been established that Taliban’s survival primarily depends on Pakistan’s continuing support and provision of safe havens. Indeed, Mullah Rahmatullah Kakazada, a senior diplomat under the Taliban regime, according to a November 29, 2016, report, had categorically stated, “If we left Pakistan we would not survive one week”. He was responding to a report that said Syed Mohammad Tayyab Agha, the former head of the Taliban’s Qatar office, in letter to Mullah Akhundzada had said, “to be able to make independent decisions, you, the members of our leadership council, and heads of our various commissions, should leave Pakistan.” Way back in 2010, one of the Taliban’s southern ‘commanders’ (name not disclosed) in an interview had stated,
If anyone rejects that the ISI [Inter-Services Intelligence, Pakistan’s external intelligence agency] backs or controls the Taliban, he has a mental problem… all our plans and strategy are made in Pakistan and step by step it is brought to us, for military operations or other activities. Pakistan [the ISI] does not have only one representative on the Quetta Shura, they have representatives everywhere… The reality is that the ISI controls the leadership…
No respite from suicide bombings in particular and terror attacks at large inside Afghanistan is likely in the foreseeable future, as there is no evidence on the ground to suggest that Pakistan is going to give up its policy of exporting terror into its neighbourhood. On the contrary, with Imran Khan assuming the office of Prime Minister in August 2018, there is a high probability of the Taliban gaining more support from Islamabad. Khan has strong links with the Afghan Taliban, and a close relationship with the Pakistan Army, and there is likely to be a complete unity of purpose on Islamabad’s strategy of disruption in Afghanistan.
Ajit Kumar Singh is a Research Fellow, Institute for Conflict Management
Source: South Asia Intelligence Review
URL:https://www.newageislam.com/radical-islamism-jihad/no-respite-suicide-bombings-particular/d/117053


Sultan Shahin, E-22, Indra Prastha Apts., 114, I. P. Extension, New Delhi – 110092
Follow us to stay in the loop on what's new with New Age Islam.

Title: Afghanistan: Suicide Offensive – Analysis – Eurasia Review
A Journal of Analysis and News

BySATP
By Ajit Kumar Singh*
On November 28, 2018, at least 10 people were killed and another 29 injured in a suicide attack in Kabul City (District), the national capital.
On November 23, 2018, at least 10 soldiers of the 2nd Regiment of the Afghan National Army (ANA) were killed in a suicide attack that targeted soldiers inside a mosque at their base in the Mandozai District of Khost Province. Another 15 soldiers were injured in the explosion.
On November 20, 2018, at least 55 people were killed and 94 injured in a suicide bombing conducted inside the Uranus Wedding Hall in Kabul City.
According to partial data compiled by the South Asia Terrorism Portal (SATP), at least 822 people have died in 64 suicide attacks across Afghanistan in the current year (data till November 30, 2018). There were 613 fatalities in 52 such attacks through 2017; and 503 fatalities in 43 incidents in 2016.
According to the Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict: Annual Report 2017 2017 had already recorded the highest number of civilian casualties (both in terms of deaths and injuries separately) caused by suicide attacks in Afghanistan since 2009, when United Nations Assistance Mission’s (UNAMA) started documenting civilian fatalities in Afghanistan. According to the report, there were 2,295 civilian casualties (605 deaths and 1,690 injuries) due to suicide attacks in 2017. The previous highest of number of deaths (488) was recorded in 2011, while previous highest of injuries (1,565) were reported in 2016.
Casualties in suicide attacks have been on the rise since 2009, with the exception of years 2010, 2012, and 2013. According to latest quarterly report by Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict released on October 10, 2018, between January 1, 2018, and September 30, 2018, there have been 2,243 civilian casualties (714 deaths and 1,629 injuries) in suicide attacks.
Significantly, as SAIR noted earlier, despite 30 years of warfare, Afghanistan had never experienced a suicide attack until September 9, 2001, when the Northern Alliance Commander Ahmad Shah Masood was assassinated at Khwaja Bahauddin in Takhar Province by two Arab al Qaeda suicide bombers. With this event, Afghanistan was thrust into a new chapter of armed conflict.
According to partial data compiled by the Institute for Conflict Management (ICM) from media reports, Afghanistan witnessed 421 incidents of suicide attacks between September 9, 2001, and December 31, 2008, resulting in 1,231 fatalities. Thereafter, between January 1, 2009, and September 30, 2018, UNAMA has recorded more than 654 suicide attacks resulting in 14,248 casualties 3,274 deaths and 10,974 injuries). [No. of suicide attacks for year 2009 and 2018 is not available]
Neighbouring Pakistan, which is primarily responsible for the consistently deteriorating security scenario in Afghanistan, remains the principal source of the continuing menace of suicide attacks. According to a report titled Suicide Attacks in Afghanistan (2001-2007) released by UNAMA on September 1, 2007,
…While suicide attackers elsewhere in the world tend not to be poor and uneducated, Afghanistan’s attackers appear to be young, uneducated and often drawn from madaris across the border in Pakistan… The tribal areas of Pakistan remain an important source of human and material assistance for suicide attacks in Afghanistan…
The report also disclosed,
…Considerable dispute persists over the identity of the attackers, with some analysts contending that they are now overwhelmingly Afghan, even if foreigners such as Arabs and Pakistanis were involved in the early attacks. Others still insist that the attackers are foreigners or Afghans who have spent much of their lives in Pakistan… President Hamid Karzai [the then President], as well as Afghan intelligence and other Afghan authorities, have tended to claim that the attackers originate from Pakistan with the implications that they are Pakistanis…
The evidence of involvement continues to crop up. Referring to a spate of suicide attacks in January 2018 Mohammad Stanekzai, the head of Afghanistan’s spy agency, National Directorate of Security (NDS) on February 1, 2018, categorically stated on February 1, 2018, “We asked Pakistan to hand over the culprits of the attacks in Afghanistan and we shared undeniable evidence that the attacks were planned there”. More recently, on October 23, 2018, President Ashraf Ghani observed, “I want to say that this conspiracy was plotted in Pakistan. So Pakistan should give us the criminals so that we can bring them to justice.” He was referring to the killing of Kandahar Police Commander Gen. Abdul Raziq in Kandahar City (District), the capital of Kandahar Province, on October 18, 2018.
The principal architect of the initial upsurge of suicide attacks was senior Taliban ‘commander’ Mullah Dadullah aka Dadullah Akhund, who targeted Afghan and Western troops in Southern Afghanistan. Though Dadullah was killed in a raid by International Security Assistance Force troops in Kandahar City on May 12, 2007, the trend of suicide bombings continues to terrorise Afghanistan. The Taliban remains the primary player. According to UNAMA’s latest quarterly report released on October 10, 2018,
…From 1 January to 30 September 2018, Anti-Government Elements caused 5,243 civilian casualties (1,743 deaths and 3,500 injured), accounting for 65 per cent of all civilian casualties, approximately the same as in the first nine months of 2017. Of the 65 per cent of civilian casualties attributed to Anti-Government Elements, 35 per cent were attributed to Taliban, 25 per cent to Daesh/ISKP, and five per cent to unidentified Anti Government Elements (including less than one per cent to self-proclaimed Daesh/ISKP)…
There were a total of 2,798 deaths in Afghanistan during this period.
It has long been established that Taliban’s survival primarily depends on Pakistan’s continuing support and provision of safe havens. Indeed, Mullah Rahmatullah Kakazada, a senior diplomat under the Taliban regime, according to a November 29, 2016, report, had categorically stated, “If we left Pakistan we would not survive one week”. He was responding to a report that said Syed Mohammad Tayyab Agha, the former head of the Taliban’s Qatar office, in letter to Mullah Akhundzada had said, “to be able to make independent decisions, you, the members of our leadership council, and heads of our various commissions, should leave Pakistan.” Way back in 2010, one of the Taliban’s southern ‘commanders’ (name not disclosed) in an interview had stated,
If anyone rejects that the ISI [Inter-Services Intelligence, Pakistan’s external intelligence agency] backs or controls the Taliban, he has a mental problem… all our plans and strategy are made in Pakistan and step by step it is brought to us, for military operations or other activities. Pakistan [the ISI] does not have only one representative on the Quetta Shura, they have representatives everywhere… The reality is that the ISI controls the leadership…
No respite from suicide bombings in particular and terror attacks at large inside Afghanistan is likely in the foreseeable future, as there is no evidence on the ground to suggest that Pakistan is going to give up its policy of exporting terror into its neighbourhood. On the contrary, with Imran Khan assuming the office of Prime Minister in August 2018, there is a high probability of the Taliban gaining more support from Islamabad. Khan has strong links with the Afghan Taliban, and a close relationship with the Pakistan Army, and there is likely to be a complete unity of purpose on Islamabad’s strategy of disruption in Afghanistan.
*Ajit Kumar SinghResearch Fellow, Institute for Conflict Management
SATP, or the South Asia Terrorism Portal (SATP) publishes the South Asia Intelligence Review, and is a product of The Institute for Conflict Management, a non-Profit Society set up in 1997 in New Delhi, and which is committed to the continuous evaluation and resolution of problems of internal security in South Asia. The Institute was set up on the initiative of, and is presently headed by, its President, Mr. K.P.S. Gill, IPS (Retd).
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Name*
Email*
Website

What is the MENA region? MENA is the acronym for “Middle East and North Africa”, regularly used in academic and
This article is just plain wrong! The author may have a professorship, but his academic rigor is very poor. To…
there are legitimate reasons for USA to dissolve. the country is divided and bankrupt whoever wins the next election will…
THIS IS ONE OF THE WORSE PIECES EVER POSTED ON EURASIA REVIEW, MOST RACIST, ANTI-SEMITIC ANTI-UKRAINIAN RANT. WHY DID ER…
This is either the most self-deceiving rose-tinted spectacles view of Russia I have ever read, or a despicable set of…
It is wishful thinking to expect Gwadar Port to be a game changer for Pakistan. It has not materialized so…

Title: In Afghanistan, ignorance has become a crucial part of the War on Terror
Away from the media glare, the war on Afghan civilians at the hands of America and its local allies continues to take a toll on everyday life, with hundreds killed as a result.

Three weeks ago, Mullah Abdul Manan Akhund, a powerful Taliban commander in the southern Afghan province of Helmand, was killed by an American drone strike. Several journalists and political observers, both Afghan and foreign, shared the news on their Twitter feeds and beyond. Mullah Manan's death was a big headline, and it also strengthened the 17-year narrative of the so called ‘War on Terror’, which is supposed to be a success.
On the very same day that Mullah Manan was killed, another event occurred in Paktia, a province in eastern Afghanistan. At least 12 civilians were killed in one night of airstrikes and night raids conducted by Afghan and American forces. In fact, the Afghan forces who have been involved – the CIA-backed Khost Protection Force (KPF) – is notorious for killing and torturing civilians.
The next day, family members of the victims buried their loved ones in public, and by holding this ceremony, they also expressed their protest.
Such an event is not rare in Afghanistan. While the world's – especially the Western public's focus – often lies on Kabul and other cities, the country's rural areas have become the main setting of brutal night raids, drone strikes and other military operations.
Often, civilians are killed. In recent weeks, massacres like the one in Paktia took place in several other provinces such as Nangarhar or Helmand, where Mullah Manan was killed. But contrary to the death of the Taliban commander, civilian casualties often go unnoticed. Nobody cares about some ‘alleged militants’, as civilian victims are regularly described in news reports and their families in Afghanistan's uncovered hinterland. They are, for many, just collateral damage.
In fact, drone strikes like the one that killed Mullah Manan, rarely kill militant leaders. The very first drone operation in the history of mankind took place in October 2001 in Kandahar, and its target – Taliban founder Mullah Mohammad Omar – survived. Years later, he died naturally, the many drones did not kill him but instead killed others, people without faces and names. Other American hunts were unsuccessful too.
Recently, it has been revealed that Maulavi Jalaluddin Haqqani, a senior Taliban leader, is dead. He death was caused by sickness and old age, not by a Hellfire rocket. During the last 17 years, Haqqani – who is also considered as the founder of the so-called ‘Haqqani network’ – has been declared dead a couple of times.
Other people, such as Al-Qaida leader Ayman al-Zawahiri, have been ‘killed’ several times by drone strikes. According to Reprieve, a human rights organisation based in the United Kingdom, between 2002 and 2014, at least 1,147 people in Pakistan and Yemen have been killed by drone strikes for the sake of 41 actual targets.
In some cases, targets have been killed after several drone strikes. In others, like in the case of al-Zawahiri, they are still alive today. The question remains, who has been killed instead of them in all these attacks?
This is also one of the reasons why it is problematic that some journalists, analysts and politicians decided to highlight Mullah Manan's death, despite seemingly not caring about the many civilian casualties of drone strikes and similar operations in the past. It is just strengthening the flawed narrative of ‘precise’ drones and killer squads that solely kill ’terrorists’.
Another such strike took place last weekend in Logar province. According to different reports, at least 12 civilians were killed. “They were driving home and were mistaken for Taliban fighters. Will this make it on to the news anywhere? Will, anyone, be brought to justice for this?”, a victim's relative said on social media.
According to recent US military figures, more than 5,000 bombs have been dropped on Afghanistan in 2018. This is a record in the in the 17-year long war. Numbers from 2001 to 2003 are not available. Besides, it is also known that the military's numbers are flawed and problematic. Last year, research by theMilitary Timesrevealed that US military data from Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan was factually wrong. "The American military has failed to publically disclose potentially thousands of lethal airstrikes conducted over several years,” the media outlet reported.
In short, many more bombs have been dropped. They just did not want to tell us.
While Afghanistan and Afghans are being bombed more than ever, the Taliban – Afghanistan's largest insurgent group – is controlling more territory than it has since 2001. Additionally, Daesh, also known as Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP), has made crucial gains too and is capable of conducting complex brutal attack in the middle of big cities like Kabul.
Unsurprisingly, many people are asking themselves the following: Who are these bombs killing?
The answer is simple: Definitely not militants, because the nameless and faceless people who are getting killed regularly are civilians, and the mass murder of these people has created a massive blowback. Thus, militancy and extremism have increased in the region.
Just as in many other places on Earth, the US War on Terror has failed in Afghanistan too. While at least some American policymakers and observers have understood this reality, their Afghan allies in Kabul and their supporters apparently have not. Over the last few years, war crimes committed by Afghan forces have increased significantly.
At this very moment, the Afghan National Army and brutal militias such as the CIA-backed KPF are using American weapons, and they use them much more brutally than the Americans themselves, as whistle-blower who used to be part of the US drone programme, told me after Afghan forces bombed a religious school in the northern province of Kunduz last April.
At least 36 civilians, mostly children, were killed back then while the Kabul government spread fake news, claiming that a ‘Taliban meeting’ took place inside the school.
After the UN confirmed the civilian casualties, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani apologised in public. Since then, his government has done nothing to prevent more civilian casualties but continues to create more of them.

Title: US-led coalition announces senior ISIS leader killed in Syria strike
The US-led coalition fighting ISIS in Syria and Iraq announced Sunday that a strike killed an ISIS leader in Syria who was tied to the death of a US citizen.
Army Col. Sean Ryan, a spokesman for the coalition, said the strikes on Sunday were against "a senior ISIS member, Abu al Umarayn, and several other ISIS members."
"Al Umarayn had given indications of posing an imminent threat to coalition forces, and he was involved in the killing of American citizen and former US Army Ranger Peter Kassig," Ryan said. "He has been linked to and directly involved with executing several other prisoners as a senior ISIS member."
The US-led coaltion has conducted hundreds of air and artillery strikes aimed at driving ISIS from its last remaining pocket of territory in Syria.
The announcement followed a US strike on Saturday that killed a senior Taliban leader in Afghanistan's Helmand province, a US military spokesman told CNN.
"We can confirm a US airstrike conducted yesterday resulted in the death of Taliban shadow governor Mullah Manan," Army Col. Dave Butler, a spokesman for US forces in Afghanistan, said. "We're driving toward a political solution. This killing doesn't have to continue."
Manan was the political and military leader of the Taliban in Helmand, one of the insurgency's most critical strongholds and the origin of much of its drug revenues. A US military official told CNN that a drone strike killed Manan.
Copyright 2024 by Cable News Network, Inc., a Time Warner Company. All rights reserved.

Title: US-led coalition announces senior ISIS leader killed in Syria strike | CNN Politics
The US-led coalition fighting ISIS in Syria and Iraq announced Sunday that a strike killed an ISIS leader in Syria who was tied to the death of a US citizen.
Army Col. Sean Ryan, a spokesman for the coalition, said the strikes on Sunday were against “a senior ISIS member, Abu al Umarayn, and several other ISIS members.”
“Al Umarayn had given indications of posing an imminent threat to coalition forces, and he was involved in the killing of American citizen and former US Army Ranger Peter Kassig,” Ryan said. “He has been linked to and directly involved with executing several other prisoners as a senior ISIS member.”
The US-led coaltion has conducted hundreds of air and artillery strikes aimed at driving ISIS from its last remaining pocket of territory in Syria.
The announcement followed a US strike on Saturday that killed a senior Taliban leader in Afghanistan’s Helmand province, a US military spokesman told CNN.
“We can confirm a US airstrike conducted yesterday resulted in the death of Taliban shadow governor Mullah Manan,” Army Col. Dave Butler, a spokesman for US forces in Afghanistan, said. “We’re driving toward a political solution. This killing doesn’t have to continue.”
Manan was the political and military leader of the Taliban in Helmand, one of the insurgency’s most critical strongholds and the origin of much of its drug revenues. A US military official told CNN that a drone strike killed Manan.
CNN’s Eli Watkins contributed to this report.
© 2024 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.

Title: US-led coalition announces senior ISIS leader killed in Syria strike | fox43.com
The US-led coalition fighting ISIS in Syria and Iraq announced Sunday that a strike killed an ISIS leader in Syria who was tied to the death of a US citizen.
Army Col. Sean Ryan, a spokesman for the coalition, said the strikes on Sunday were against “a senior ISIS member, Abu al Umarayn, and several other ISIS members.”
“Al Umarayn had given indications of posing an imminent threat to coalition forces, and he was involved in the killing of American citizen and former US Army Ranger Peter Kassig,” Ryan said. “He has been linked to and directly involved with executing several other prisoners as a senior ISIS member.”
The US-led coaltion has conducted hundreds of air and artillery strikes aimed at driving ISIS from its last remaining pocket of territory in Syria.
The announcement followed a US strike on Saturday that killed a senior Taliban leader in Afghanistan’s Helmand province, a US military spokesman told CNN.
“We can confirm a US airstrike conducted yesterday resulted in the death of Taliban shadow governor Mullah Manan,” Army Col. Dave Butler, a spokesman for US forces in Afghanistan, said. “We’re driving toward a political solution. This killing doesn’t have to continue.”
Manan was the political and military leader of the Taliban in Helmand, one of the insurgency’s most critical strongholds and the origin of much of its drug revenues. A US military official told CNN that a drone strike killed Manan.
Next up in5
Example video title will go here for this video
Next up in5
Example video title will go here for this video




In Other News
Notifications can be turned off anytime in the browser settings.

Title: Trump seeks Pakistan’s help with Afghan peace talks - Daily Times
Daily Times
Your right to knowTuesday, September 24, 2024
Op-Ed
Pakistan’s relations with the US have been likened to a roller coaster with numerous highs and lows
S M Hali
December 15, 2018
US President Donald Trump has written a letter to Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan seeking Islamabad’s assistance and facilitation in achieving a negotiated settlement of the Afghan war. This is a far cry from the denigrating observations of Trump in his new South Asia policy, stopping Pakistan’s Coalition Support Fund due for its support in the war on terror, shutting down aid, warning IMF not to extend loans to Pakistan and his debasing tweets besmirching Pakistan.
Pakistan’s relations with the US have been likened to a roller coaster with numerous highs and lows. Currently, a low persists with Donald trump, bluntly muddying the waters although other government functionaries were trying to step in to stem the rot.
Afghanistan has been a quagmire, which swallowed manyinvading armiesand when the US got sucked in following the deadly 9/11 attacks, there has been no let up. Following the peak surge by President Obama, when US forces in Afghanistan swelled to 150,000, which failed to bring about the desired results, a drawdown of forces was commenced in 2015. Nearly 300,000 Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) were trained and equipped with sophisticated weapons to take charge of the law and order situation in Afghanistan. US and other NATO forces are limited to a couple of thousand only and that too in supervisory role.
The system failed to work, not because of the flaws in training of the ANSF but the failure of US defence planners to make a critical appreciation of the threat. Some of the most brilliant US military minds have served in Afghanistan but success eluded them since they failed to grasp the complexities of the Afghan mindset.
The US defence planners failed to make a critical appreciation of the threat. Some of the most brilliant US military minds have served in Afghanistan but success eluded them since they failed to grasp the complexities of the Afghan mindset
The Afghan Taliban were defeated but not decimated. They regrouped, rearmed and came back with a vengeance. Set piece battles, employment of massive airpower and even anti-guerilla warfare tactics failed to work. Pakistan, which was a close ally and proved useful in the initial stages of the war in Afghanistan, started to be perceived with suspicion by the US. The porous borders between Pakistan and Afghanistan, the treacherous terrain in the adjoining territory and local help because of common Pashtun ancestry, enabled the Taliban to evade capture and defeat. The US had the support of technology, intelligence and state-of-the-art weaponry but its inability to halt the Taliban’s hit and run attacks constrained Washington DC to look for a scapegoat in Pakistan and blame it for its failures.
Serious writers like al-Biruni, researchers like Sir Olaf Caroe, who is considered a strategist of the Great Game and the Cold War on the southern periphery of the Soviet Union, William Dalrymple, Nancy Hatch Dupree, Thomas Barfield, Louis Dupree, George Crile, Christina Lamb and our own Ahmed Rashid provide insight into the mind of the Afghans, but the real convolutions remain veiled.
Classified by the Occident as terrorists, the Taliban consider themselves as freedom fighters, striving to rid their country of foreign invaders. Pakistan has been crying hoarse that the solution to the Afghan imbroglio is no longer a military one and even paved the way for peace talks but its solitary voice got drowned in the crescendo of the blame game. The elimination of the al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden at a compound in Pakistan did not help matters and only crystallized US claims of “I told you so!”
Now that the Taliban are in control of more than sixty percent of Afghanistan, the various governments installed in Kabul have proved to be inept and ineffective, the ANSF and the National Directorate of Security (NDS) have been infiltrated by the Talibansympathizersand various international intelligence agencies, furthering their vested interests, belatedly President Trump has decided to reach out to Pakistan. Although Pakistan responded positively, it is yet to be determined whether another round of “good cop, bad cop” is being played. Directly after Trump’s overture, his outgoing Ambassador to the UN, Nikki Haley, in an interview to The Atlantic, declared that “aid to Pakistan must be shut down.” Nikki Haley’s outburst can be dismissed on account of her Indian origin and ingrained biases against Pakistan, yet Pakistan needs to be wary.
Donald Trump’s special envoy to the region Zalmay Khalilzad paid a visit to follow up on the Trump request. The move may help ease tension in the Pak-US ties but if Trump is serious in ensuring Pakistan’s support, he will have to ask his administration to come down a few notches in firing broadsides at Pakistan. Sometimes US State Department choses to castigate Pakistan for its alleged ill treatment of its minorities while at others, climate control experts breathe down Pakistan’s neck accusing it of severe violations. Support provided by Pakistan will be in good faith, but it takes two to tango. There should be mutual respect and hurling insults must cease.
The writer is a retired Group Captain of PAF. He is a columnist, analyst and TV talk show host, who has authored six books on current affairs, including three on China
Published in Daily Times, December 15th2018.




More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category

HomeLead StoriesLatest NewsEditor’s Picks
CultureLife & StyleFeaturedVideos
EditorialsOP-EDSCommentaryAdvertise
CartoonsLettersBlogsPrivacy Policy
ContactCompany’s FinancialsInvestor InformationTerms & Conditions
FacebookTwitterInstagramYoutube
Copyright © 2024 Daily TimesWebsite Developed ByDaily Times Developers

Title: No title found


Title: Afghanistan: Drought - Emergency Plan of Action (EPoA) update n° 1; DREF n° MDRAF004 - Afghanistan | ReliefWeb
Afghanistan
Description of the disaster
Poor precipitation during the winter of 2017/2018 in the mountainous regions of Hindu-Kush is responsible for the severe drought that hit Afghanistan in the first half of 2018, particularly over the northwestern regions. These semiarid/arid areas rely heavily on rain and melted snow flowing from the mountains for the majority of their water resources. As most of Western Afghanistan does not receive any precipitation between June and October, the lack of it in earlier months compromises water supply for the rest of the year.
The drought caused losses to the rural communities (70 per cent of population live in rural areas) and forced people to move toward makeshift camps and cities, to avoid famine as many people have been left without enough food to feed their families. Hilmand ANDMA reported about 1,400 individuals displaced from Khanshin to Lashkargah due to drought and lack of water. As part of the drought response in rural areas, WFP and its partners delivered 3,500 metric tons of food for more than 398,000 people in 13 provinces, in the last week of November (20-27 November). In the past month, more than 1.4 million people received food or cash from WFP as part of the ongoing full-scale drought response that plans to reach 2.5 million people by end of the year.
Summary of current response
Overview of Host National Society: The Afghan Red Crescent Society (ARCS) remains vigilant and have been monitoring the situation since the start of dry spell. ARCS is in close coordination with Afghan National Disaster Management Authority (ANDMA), Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) and Food Security and Agriculture Cluster (FSAC). ARCS Emergency Operations Centre (EOC) was activated to coordinate with relevant stakeholders and update on the situation on regular basis. ARCS started coordination meetings with in country movement partners since May 2018.
ARCS drought response plan is to meet the immediate needs of 105,000 drought affected people (15,000 families) in the areas of food, nutrition, livelihood, health, WASH and emergency shelter. Tentative timeline for ARCS drought response is one year starting from August 2018 to July 2019.ARCS Drought response plan is flexible to adapt the changing needs and access situation, two major contributors to update ARCS response plans are; Continuous need assessment: Continuous Access monitoring: On ground access is frequently changing due to unpredictable security situation in the country and ongoing fight between Armed Opposition Groups (AOGs) and Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF).
Afghanistan
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Afghanistan+ 2 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title:  The Bitter Experience of Governmental Paramilitary Militias in Afghanistan
ForgotUsernameorPassword

Date
(MENAFN- Daily Outlook Afghanistan) Over the course of several decades, Afghans have been suffering from militias who have a wide range of uncontrolled armed forces. Thesemilitantsinclude groups that engage tribal leaders, private security companies, groups of gangs, and insurgent groups. The most obvious term for the paramilitary militias in Afghanistan is the word 'arbaki. The term also includes non-responsiblearmed forcesthat have been created within the framework of official governmental military programs under Afghan Local Policy (ALP). The militias have been involved with any kind of group that has been involved in deadly tribal repressions, assassinations, smuggling, and extortion. Raping women, boys, and girls is a common practice by the militants. Therefore, many of them have been accused of committing human rights violations.After the US-led military intervention in Afghanistan following the 9/11 attacks in 2001, the Taliban-led rebellion has been intensified in the country. To deal with along with the insurgency, the Afghan government and its international supporters expanded the Afghan National Police by creating paramilitary militias in the form of the Afghan Local Police. This policy led to the reactivation of various armed and non-responsible groups, especially in the north of the country. Moreover, this policy indirectly paved the way for powerful local elders to create their own small militia groups to counteract the deteriorating security situation in their communities.The Afghan government approved the establishment of ALP in July 2010, and this force was established on August 16, 2010, by presidential decree. According to the US Army and the Afghan Government, the Afghan Local Police were set up throughout Afghanistan to defend those areas in rural communities where the Afghan National Police and the Afghan National Army are inadequate. In other words, paramilitary forces were established for short-term tactical needs, such as working with the counter-terrorism team at border areas. ALP was a major effort to correct strategic problems in the war against the Taliban. It was argued that Afghan security forces are sent to areas whose inhabitants view them as foreign because of their ethnicity and race. Thus, how the Afghan government with the support of the US founded ALP.Initially, the Afghan government decided to recruit about 10,000 people as ALP, but the US Congress has approved funds for 30,000 ALPs. In August 2011, 7,000 were recruited as local police. They receive almost 60 percent of the National Police salary, which is 165 euros, and dress differently. They serve on the front lines of the violence.One of the key hypotheses that have laid the foundation of the Afghan Local Police is that, despite the existence of weak command structure hierarchies, the Afghan National Police (ANP) will control ALP. The key point here is that the number of local police in the districts they operate is higher than the official police officer in that district. In addition, the local police are supported by separate and informal networks of powerful government officials and local authorities that do not allow them to be questioned.Moreover, the instructions given to the local police are not clear on the competencies of ALP. Similarly, it is unclear whether ALP follows the internal regulations of the Afghan National Police framework on interrogations, detention, and the process of handing over detainees to the ANP. On the other hand, ALP units are trained for three weeks, while ANP officers have six weeks of elementary education. Apart from this, after the end of ALP's mission, there are no clear guidelines on the process of integrating and consolidating the ALP units within the ANP.A recent report by the International Crisis Group on the controversial issue of mobilizing village people in the form of Afghan Local Police to fight against the Taliban groups and ISIS echoes that in most cases the local police program has led to the empowerment of local militias who are not accountable to the Afghan government. The report says that the local police program did not reduce violence, and instead of improving security in Afghanistan where they operate, the security situation has been worsened.The International Crisis Group adds that although the local police program was considered as a temporary solution to the recruitment and escape of the Afghan security forces, in 2014, the Afghan government decided to increase the number of ALP from 29,000 to 45,000. The report of the International Crisis Group refers to cases of harassment by local police and illicit tax evasion by them. In the report of the International Crisis Group, allegations of sexual assault, looting, and imprisonment of people in torture chambers in dry wells filled with snakes by non-militias are also mentioned, for instance, in Faryab Province.Before the US intervention in Afghanistan in 2001, Afghan people have experienced the establishment of similar paramilitary militias by the Afghan government, too. The first paramilitary forces refer to the ruling People's Democratic Party – during the Soviet Union supported governments in Kabul in the late 1980s. The Kabul People's Democratic Party backed by the Soviet Union founded its own paramilitary militias to fight against the Mujahidin and other rebels. It was one of the most terrible experiences that Afghan people tasted during in the late 1980s.On the other hand, the US government also provided money and weapons to various groups of the Mujahidin to fight against the Soviet Union and its so-called governments. After the withdrawal of Soviet Union forces in 1990, neither the United States nor the Soviet Union took up the bloody Mujahideen wars. And left these militias to fight with each other for gaining the power. The US and Soviet Union backed governmental warlords and strongholds were lawless factions and ready for another armed conflict in Afghanistan.The current paramilitary militias operating in Afghanistan are controlled by people who are called local power or warlords. These are the major warlords to former Mujahideen commanders who, at the time of the jihad against the Soviet Union, created a power base. And now their sources of power and support have expanded deep into the institutions of governance in the center and in the neighborhoods. Extremely inaccurate behavior of the militias has driven people from the national government and in some cases contributed to the expansion of the rebellion.From its inception, the plan of arming local people against the Taliban was nothing but strengthening the local warlords on a wider scale. The Afghan government policymakers did not think that one day these warlords become uncontrollable powers that the government should enter into a bloody war to subjugate them later on. The US government is not at all worried about the fact that these ALPs are entering illicit drug trafficking and economic mafia and land usurpation because the US government only thinks about weakening the Taliban groups.After the formation of the Karzai government in 2002, the Afghan government and its international supporters have pledged to disarm illegal armed groups and return them to civilian life. But such efforts have been largely demonstrative and ineffective. The personal interests of latent and powerful individuals in the Afghan government, as well as the financial, logistical and military support of the United States and other international forces from the militias, have undermined the process of disarmament.Political experts argue that the Afghan Local Police and pro-government militias are dangerous, and the Kabul government should stop the call for their expansion. Instead, the Afghan government should take steps and measures to improve stewardship and supervision over ALP in areas that they operate. Additionally, the Afghan government should adopt serious measures to integrate ALP forces into Afghanistan National Security Forces (ANSF) so that they can be held accountable to the Afghan government authorized entities. Now that the Trump Administration wants to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan, the paramilitary forces can pose more serious threats to the stability of the Afghan central government if they are not disarmed and controlled.MENAFN2912201801750000ID1097897577
MENAFN2912201801750000ID1097897577
MENAFN2912201801750000ID1097897577
MENAFN2912201801750000ID1097897577
Legal Disclaimer:MENAFNprovides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.

Tags
Comments
Category
Date
Daily(English)Daily(Arabic)All()

World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data.
Contact UsClick here
Copyright © 2000MENAFN.All rights reserved.
Design & Devleopment byMENAFN

Title: Human Rights Watch Submission to the Universal Periodic Review of Afghanistan | Human Rights Watch
31st session of the Universal Periodic Review; 3rd cycle
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
Introduction
Afghanistan’s last Universal Periodic Review (UPR) was in January 2014, when most international forces were preparing to withdraw and hand over security responsibilities to the Afghan National Security Forces. Afghanistan’s human rights situation has deteriorated since then, as fighting has intensified between government forces and insurgent groups, including the Taliban and the Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP), the Afghan branch of the Islamic State, which emerged in 2015. Civilian casualties have steadily increased. In 2013, at least 8,638 civilians were killed or injured; in every year since, civilian casualties have surpassed 10,000.
Widespread fraud and violence marred the 2014 presidential elections, and the resulting impasse ended with a deal between the candidates and the establishment of a national unity government. President Ashraf Ghani came into office vowing to undertake a number of reforms to tackle corruption. He also made commitments regarding specific human rights concerns in the areas of torture, women’s rights, and media freedom.  While some of these reforms have resulted in legislation or new policies, these have had minimal effect in curbing abusive practices by state security forces, the judiciary and other institutions. Torture of detainees is routine, and the government has failed to hold perpetrators—including senior police officials—accountable. Afghan special police units have carried out forced disappearances and summary executions with impunity. Violence against women, including rape, murder, mutilation and assault—is widespread, and the perpetrators are rarely brought to justice. The number of girls in school is falling due not only to insecurity, but to discriminatory practices, lack of female teachers, and schools that lack boundary walls and toilets. While the media remain a vibrant part of Afghan civil society, the government has failed to investigate and prosecute dozens of cases of violence against journalists by security forces.

During Afghanistan’s second cycle UPR, several member states made recommendations urging that the Afghan government take steps to eliminate torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment (Denmark); elaborate a road map to improve prison conditions and to prevent mistreatment of prisoners (Poland); deploy possible additional efforts to prevent cases of torture and ill-treatment and to prosecute perpetrators (Italy); and intensify the fight against impunity (Germany).
In its response to recommendations made during the interactive dialogue, the Afghan delegation initially indicated that it would intensify its efforts to curb torture and prosecute perpetrators; implement, in the national legislation, provisions of the Convention against Torture; consider ratifying the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance and the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture; and respond positively to requests to visit made by the Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.[1]Only the recommendation to respond positively to requests to visit made by the Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment made it into the government’swritten response. However, as of July 2018, the government had not extended an invitation to the Special Rapporteur.
In the first year after the National Unity Government took office in September 2014, President Ghani announced a “zero-tolerance” approach toward torture and launched a national action plan to end it. Human rights activists in Afghanistan reported a slight decrease in the incidence of torture at that time, as police and intelligence officials were under increased scrutiny. However, by mid-2015, as fighting with the Taliban intensified, human rights activists reported that torture had resumed to previous levels or had increased in many places. Inits 2017 report, the United Nations Assistance Mission to Afghanistan (UNAMA)found the highest levels of torture of conflict-related detainees in police custody since it began monitoring detentions in 2010. The UNAMA report said that 39 percent of detainees were subjected to beatings, electric shocks, or near suffocation by the Afghan police and intelligence agents. Police in Kandahar province tortured or mistreated a reported 91 percent of detainees, including by “forcibly pumping water into their stomachs, crushing their testicles with clamps, suffocating them to the point of losing consciousness, and applying electric current to their genitals, among other practices.”
In April 2017, the UN Committee Against Torture reported that it was “gravely concerned about the general climate and culture of impunity in Afghanistan as evidenced by the large number of cases of alleged human rights violations’ cases involving senior State officials,”  and that it was concerned at the numerous reports, including from UNAMA, the International Criminal Court, the Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission (AIHRC) and human rights groups “that beatings, electric shocks, suspensions, threats, sexual abuses, and other forms of mental and physical abuses are largely and increasingly practiced on detainees” by the National Directorate of Security (NDS), Afghan National Police (ANP), and Afghan Local Police (ALP) in order to extract confessions.
While the Afghan government has fulfilled its obligation to bring national legislation into conformance with the Convention against Torture, incorporating the crime of torture in domestic law, it has not enforced the law.  The government withdrew its reservations to the Convention against Torture and ratified the Optional Protocol.  However,amendments to the Criminal Procedure Codeallow security personnel to hold suspects accused of terrorist crimes and crimes against internal and external security for up to 70 days without requiring those suspects to be brought before a judge. Such provisions increase the risk of torture.
Impunity remains the normamong the country’s security forces. The government has established human rights units in the relevant agencies, required personnel to participate in training on human rights, and reformed the law, but it has not prosecuted any ANP, ALP or NDS officials for torture. Those responsible for the most egregious practices, including senior police officials in Kandahar such asGen. Abdul Raziq, continue to enjoy government support. Human Rights Watch have received reports that ANP forces under Raziq have been responsible for forced disappearances and summary executions in Kandahar. There have been no official investigations into these incidents and no prosecutions.
The Afghan government is also failing in other areas to comply with its obligations under international human rights law. Human Rights Watch has documented summary executions of civilians by NDS special police units in Nangarhar, Kabul and Kandahar, and has received reports that other ANSF special forces, including the Khost Protection Force, have been responsible forextrajudicial executions of civilians. The Afghan government has continued to rely on militia forces,some of whichhave killed and assaulted civilians. Afghan security forceshave been complicitin the sexual exploitation and recruitment of children, and as with other kinds of abuse, the government has failed to hold the perpetrators accountable.
Recommendations

In the 2014 UPR, the Afghanistan delegation accepted numerous recommendations[2]on improving implementation of the 2009 Law on the Elimination of Violence Against Women (EVAW law), including the measures recommended to Afghanistan by the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women in July 2013. During the review (A/HRC/26/4), the Afghan delegation responded to some of the questions raised regarding the EVAW law, stating that the government strongly believed in the implementation of the law, and that perpetrators of violence against women would be prosecuted and punished. The government included none of these recommendations in its written response. It did accept the recommendation (Mexico) to invite the UN Special Rapporteur on violence against women. In November 2014, the Special Rapporteur visited Afghanistan and issued a report in May 2015.
In research carried out in 2017 and 2018, Human Rights Watch found that Afghan women seeking justice after facing violence continue to face formidable obstacles. Police routinely refuse to register cases and instead tell women who have been the victims of domestic violence to return to their husbands. In May 2018UNAMA reportedthat even the most serious cases of murder and rape often never reach the courts. Afghan authorities routinely turn victims away or pressure them to accept mediation. Mediation does not provide justice to female victims of serious crimes, offering victims only a promise from her abuser not to repeat the crime. In some case, mediators themselves inflict abuse, for example by ordering girls or women to be given as compensation for murder, forcing women and girls to marry men who raped them, or excusing murder in the name of “honor.”
Despite a pledge from President Ghani in 2016 to end the imprisonment of women accused of running away from their families, Afghan police and prosecutors continue to jail women and girls for on charges of “moral crimes” that include “running away” from home, and committing or attempting to commitzina,or having sex outside of marriage.Rape victims can be charged with zina and imprisoned. These girls and women are subjected to invasive vaginal and anal examinations performed by Afghan government doctors, sometimes repeatedly on the same girl or woman including young girls, purportedly to determine whether a woman or girl is a “virgin.” These tests have no scientific validity and can constitute sexual assault. In a 2016 report,the Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commissioncalled “virginity tests” a form of sexual assault that should be abolished. Afghan officials claim that the government had since banned the examinations, butofficials have told Human Rights Watchthat the practice remains widespread, and many judges, prosecutors, and police officials told us they routinely order “virginity tests.”
In the second cycle, eight countries, including Bhutan, Chile, Croatia, Djibouti, Ecuador, Mexico, Portugal, and Switzerland, made specific recommendations urging the Afghan government to ensure equal access to education for women and girls. In itsopening statementduring the review, the Afghan delegation stated that “women’s rights and gender equality remained a top priority for the Government. … Girls currently represented about 40 per cent of the nearly 9 million children attending school in Afghanistan. About 30 per cent of the school teachers and 15 per cent of the university lecturers were women.”
By 2018, those percentages have fallen, and the situation for girls’ education is getting worse. For the first time since 2002 the number of Afghan children studying is falling. A June 2018 UNICEF report found that up to 3.7 million children in Afghanistan – nearly half the children in the country – are out of school, and 60 percent of those are girls. In six of the country’s 34 provinces–Helmand, Kandahar, Paktika, Uruzgan, Wardak and Zabul–only 15 percent or less of girls are in school. The UNICEF findings are consistent with anOctober 2017 Human Rights Watch reportthat found that while deteriorating security is a significant barrier to girls’ education, girls were at increasing risk of missing school due to discrimination against girls within the school system; child marriage; lack of female teachers; and lack of facilities including boundary walls and toilets. The Afghan governmenthas 5,260 boys’ schools but only 2,531 girls’ schools, and 60 percent of Afghan government schools have no toilets, which deters girls, especially those who have begun menstruation, from attending school.
Recommendations

In the second UPR cycle, Afghanistan accepted recommendations from Belgium, Lithuania and the Maldives that the government ensure the right of free expression and investigate and prosecute all cases of violence against journalists.
Attacks on journalists have increased since Afghanistan’s previous UPR in 2014. In 2017, theAfghan Journalists Safety Committee (AJSC) documented169 cases of violence and threats against journalists—the highest number since the group was established in 2009. Government officials and security personnel were responsible for slightly more than half of the cases in the 2014-2016 period. Since then, insurgent attacks targeting journalists have increased. On April 30, a suicide bomber disguised as a photographer killed nine journalists in Kabul. Even though the government hasvowed to investigateall cases of threats and violence by security personnel, members of parliament and other officials, and in some cases has launched investigations, it has consistently failed to prosecute the perpetrators. In 2015,Human Rights Watch documented15 cases of threats and violence against journalists by government officials; there have been no prosecutions in any of the cases. In addition, Afghan journalists have reported that the government has failed to fullyimplement the Access to Information Law, enacted in 2014, making it difficult and dangerous for the media to obtain information from public officials.
Recommendations

During Afghanistan’s second UPR, three recommendations focused on amending the government’s amnesty law and ending impunity, and one from Belgium urging the government to prosecute officials implicated in unlawful violence and to put an end to impunity. The government also accepted three recommendations to this effect: to amend the National Reconciliation, General Amnesty and National Stability Law to allow for prosecutions of certain crimes, such war crimes and torture (Sweden); remedy past human rights violations through the establishment of a transitional justice strategy (Morocco); and release the Human Rights Commission’s conflict mapping report and ensure adequate security assistance for its staff (Netherlands).
The government of Afghanistan has made no progress on any of these.
The International Criminal Court prosecutor is seeking to open an investigation into alleged crimes in Afghanistan since 2003, when Afghanistan became a member of the court. Article 88 of the ICC’s founding treaty requires members to adopt procedures under their national law to ensure full cooperation with the court. Afghanistan has yet to do so.

Recommendations

[1]Italy, Russian Federation, Spain, Egypt, Tunisia, Hungary, Latvia, Mexico, Tajikistan, Thailand, France, Czech Republic, Poland, United Kingdom, Sweden, Morocco, Germany, Netherlands, Switzerland, Uruguay, Estonia, Slovakia, Austria, Denmark, Algeria and Portugal.  A/HRC/26/4, 136.82-84., 137
[2]Austria, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Croatia, Denmark, Ecuador, France, Finland, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Iran, Ireland, Indonesia, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Malaysia, Maldives, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Philippines, Portugal, Slovenia, Sweden, Tajikistan, Turkey, Uruguay, and the US.  (A/HRC/26/4, 136.131-153)
China’s Interference in United Nations Human Rights Mechanisms
One Year in the Life of the UN Human Rights Council
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
Human Rights Watch defends the rights of people in close to 100 countries worldwide, spotlighting abuses and bringing perpetrators to justice
Get updates on human rights issues from around the globe. Join our movement today.
Every weekday, get the world’s top human rights news, explored and explained by Andrew Stroehlein.
Human Rights Watchis a 501(C)(3) nonprofit registered in the US under EIN: 13-2875808

Title: The Bitter Experience of Governmental Paramilitary Militias  in Afghanistan - The Daily Outlook Afghanistan
Over the course of  several decades, Afghans have been suffering from militias who have a wide  range of uncontrolled armed forces. These militants include groups that engage  tribal leaders, private security companies, groups of gangs, and insurgent  groups. The most obvious term for the paramilitary militias in Afghanistan is  the word “arbaki”. The term also includes non-responsible armed forces that  have been created within the framework of official governmental military  programs under Afghan Local Policy (ALP). The militias have been involved with  any kind of group that has been involved in deadly tribal repressions, assassinations,  smuggling, and extortion. Raping women, boys, and girls is a common practice by  the militants. Therefore, many of them have been accused of committing human  rights violations.After the US-led  military intervention in Afghanistan following the 9/11 attacks in 2001, the  Taliban-led rebellion has been intensified in the country. To deal with along  with the insurgency, the Afghan government and its international supporters  expanded the Afghan National Police by creating paramilitary militias in the  form of the Afghan Local Police. This policy led to the reactivation of various  armed and non-responsible groups, especially in the north of the country.  Moreover, this policy indirectly paved the way for powerful local elders to  create their own small militia groups to counteract the deteriorating security  situation in their communities.The Afghan government  approved the establishment of ALP in July 2010, and this force was established  on August 16, 2010, by presidential decree. According to the US Army and the  Afghan Government, the Afghan Local Police were set up throughout Afghanistan  to defend those areas in rural communities where the Afghan National Police and  the Afghan National Army are inadequate. In other words, paramilitary forces  were established for short-term tactical needs, such as working with the  counter-terrorism team at border areas. ALP was a major effort to correct  strategic problems in the war against the Taliban. It was argued that Afghan  security forces are sent to areas whose inhabitants view them as foreign  because of their ethnicity and race. Thus, how the Afghan government with the  support of the US founded ALP.Initially, the Afghan  government decided to recruit about 10,000 people as ALP, but the US Congress  has approved funds for 30,000 ALPs. In August 2011, 7,000 were recruited as  local police. They receive almost 60 percent of the National Police salary,  which is 165 euros, and dress differently. They serve on the front lines of the  violence.One of the key  hypotheses that have laid the foundation of the Afghan Local Police is that,  despite the existence of weak command structure hierarchies, the Afghan  National Police (ANP) will control ALP. The key point here is that the number  of local police in the districts they operate is higher than the official  police officer in that district. In addition, the local police are supported by  separate and informal networks of powerful government officials and local  authorities that do not allow them to be questioned.Moreover, the instructions  given to the local police are not clear on the competencies of ALP. Similarly,  it is unclear whether ALP follows the internal regulations of the Afghan  National Police framework on interrogations, detention, and the process of  handing over detainees to the ANP. On the other hand, ALP units are trained for  three weeks, while ANP officers have six weeks of elementary education. Apart  from this, after the end of ALP’s mission, there are no clear guidelines on the  process of integrating and consolidating the ALP units within the ANP.A recent report by  the International Crisis Group on the controversial issue of mobilizing village  people in the form of Afghan Local Police to fight against the Taliban groups  and ISIS echoes that in most cases the local police program has led to the  empowerment of local militias who are not accountable to the Afghan government.  The report says that the local police program did not reduce violence, and  instead of improving security in Afghanistan where they operate, the security  situation has been worsened.The International  Crisis Group adds that although the local police program was considered as a  temporary solution to the recruitment and escape of the Afghan security forces,  in 2014, the Afghan government decided to increase the number of ALP from  29,000 to 45,000. The report of the International Crisis Group refers to cases  of harassment by local police and illicit tax evasion by them. In the report of  the International Crisis Group, allegations of sexual assault, looting, and  imprisonment of people in torture chambers in dry wells filled with snakes by  non-militias are also mentioned, for instance, in Faryab Province.Before the US  intervention in Afghanistan in 2001, Afghan people have experienced the  establishment of similar paramilitary militias by the Afghan government, too.  The first paramilitary forces refer to the ruling People’s Democratic Party –  during the Soviet Union supported governments in Kabul in the late 1980s. The  Kabul People’s Democratic Party backed by the Soviet Union founded its own  paramilitary militias to fight against the Mujahidin and other rebels. It was  one of the most terrible experiences that Afghan people tasted during in the  late 1980s.On the other hand,  the US government also provided money and weapons to various groups of the  Mujahidin to fight against the Soviet Union and its so-called governments. After  the withdrawal of Soviet Union forces in 1990, neither the United States nor  the Soviet Union took up the bloody Mujahideen wars. And left these militias to  fight with each other for gaining the power. The US and Soviet Union backed  governmental warlords and strongholds were lawless factions and ready for  another armed conflict in Afghanistan.The current  paramilitary militias operating in Afghanistan are controlled by people who are  called local power or warlords. These are the major warlords to former Mujahideen  commanders who, at the time of the jihad against the Soviet Union, created a  power base. And now their sources of power and support have expanded deep into  the institutions of governance in the center and in the neighborhoods.  Extremely inaccurate behavior of the militias has driven people from the  national government and in some cases contributed to the expansion of the  rebellion.From its inception,  the plan of arming local people against the Taliban was nothing but  strengthening the local warlords on a wider scale. The Afghan government  policymakers did not think that one day these warlords become uncontrollable  powers that the government should enter into a bloody war to subjugate them  later on. The US government is not at all worried about the fact that these  ALPs are entering illicit drug trafficking and economic mafia and land  usurpation because the US government only thinks about weakening the Taliban  groups.After the formation  of the Karzai government in 2002, the Afghan government and its international  supporters have pledged to disarm illegal armed groups and return them to  civilian life. But such efforts have been largely demonstrative and  ineffective. The personal interests of latent and powerful individuals in the  Afghan government, as well as the financial, logistical and military support of  the United States and other international forces from the militias, have  undermined the process of disarmament.Political experts  argue that the Afghan Local Police and pro-government militias are dangerous,  and the Kabul government should stop the call for their expansion. Instead, the  Afghan government should take steps and measures to improve stewardship and  supervision over ALP in areas that they operate. Additionally, the Afghan  government should adopt serious measures to integrate ALP forces into  Afghanistan National Security Forces (ANSF) so that they can be held  accountable to the Afghan government authorized entities. Now that the Trump  Administration wants to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan, the paramilitary  forces can pose more serious threats to the stability of the Afghan central  government if they are not disarmed and controlled.
Fulbright Scholar and Graduate Student in Educational Leadership and Policy Analysis, University of Missouri-Columbia, USA. He can be reaches at hamidullahbamik@mail.missouri.edu
Copyright ©2010www.outlookafghanistan.net - All Rights Reserved.

Title: Afghanistan's handover to Pakistan? – DW – 12/21/2018
US media have reported that President Donald Trump is planning to withdraw half of American troops from Afghanistan. Analysts say the move would give the upper hand to the Taliban and their ostensible backer, Pakistan.
The Trump administration isreportedly planning to withdraw nearly 7,000 US troops– roughly half of the American military presence in the country – from Afghanistan.
US media claims that these soldiers could be heading back home within months.
These reports emerged after President Donald Trump announced Thursday that the "Islamic State" militant group had been defeated in Syria and thus the Middle Eastern country no longer required US troops there.
But the Taliban – the strongest militant force in Afghanistan – have not been defeated yet. On the contrary, their control over Afghan territories has increased manifold in the past few years. If this is the case, why must Washington reduce its presence in the war-torn country?
The US has intensified efforts to find a political solution with the Taliban in the past few months, with Zalmay Khalilzad, the US' special representative for Afghanistan, holding several high-profile talks with Taliban leaders in Qatar.
Read more:Direct talks with Taliban: 'US exploring all avenues,' State Department tells DW

A victory for Pakistan?
These talks are being facilitated by Pakistan, whose prime minister, Imran Khan, maintains that the Islamist group can't be defeated through war.
However, both Kabul and Washington have been skeptical of Islamabad's long-term motives in Afghanistan. Afghan and US officials have repeatedly said that Pakistan backs some factions of the Taliban that destabilize the Afghan government. By doing that, the powerful Pakistani military hopes to minimize Indian influence in Afghanistan and a return of the Taliban in Afghan politics, they say.
Pakistan's military and civil establishment, analysts say, still consider the Taliban an important strategic ally, who they think should be part of the Afghan government after the NATO pullout.
Observers say that the Pakistani military hopes to regain the influence in Kabul it once enjoyed before the United States and its allies toppled the pro-Pakistan Taliban government in 2001.
Pakistan's Afghanistan policyhasn't changed since the US toppled the Taliban regime in 2001, but the Trump administration's stance toward Islamabad has wavered in the past few weeks, experts point out.
The potential US troop reduction would likely to give an upper hand to Islamabad in dictating the future political setup in Afghanistan.
Siegfried O. Wolf from the Brussels-based South Asia Democratic Forum (SADF) told DW that he was convinced that several elements within the Pakistani security apparatus still believe that the Taliban could be used as a strategic tool to counter Indian presence in Afghanistan.
Read more:'Father of the Taliban' killed in Pakistan
'Weakening your own position'
It remains to be seen whether President Trump would actually withdraw 7,000 troops from Afghanistan, but the fact that the US Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis – one of the main supporters of a strong US military presence in Afghanistan –is leaving his post in February, 2019, has definitely created more uncertainty around the West's Afghan mission.
"If the US actually goes ahead with the troop reduction plan, it would be a manifestation of Trump's 'America First' policy," Thomas Ruttig, an expert from the Afghan Analysts Network, told DW.
"But at a time with Khalilzad is trying to negotiate with the Taliban, the troop reduction does not make any sense," he added.
"This would weaken the positions of both Washington and Kabul in the middle of peace talks," Ruttig emphasized.
But some experts are of the view that a potential troop withdrawal could be a calculated decision by Trump.
"The Taliban have repeatedly stressed that they would only make peace with the Afghan government once US troops leave the country," Wahid Muzhdah, a Kabul-based security analyst and a former Taliban official, told DW.
"Reports of the US troop reduction are probably meant to give some assurance to the Taliban – assurance that the US does not plan to stay in the country forever," Muzhda added.
Read more:Why Taliban won't make peace with Kabul

Alienating Kabul
Attiqullah Amarkhail, a retired Afghan army general, has a different take on the situation. He said that the media reports about a possible troop reduction could be a message for the Afghan government, which is not on the same page with Khalilzad on how to pursue peace talks.
"It sends a message to Kabul that it should back the US plan or face the Taliban on its own," Amarkhail told DW.
President Ashraf Ghani's government is reportedly unhappy with Pakistan-mediated talks between the Taliban and the US. It believes that it will further weaken its position and willleave it out of the future political setupin Afghanistan. That is why Kabul once again stressed that peace negotiations should be Afghan-owned and Afghan-led.
Analysts believe that Pakistan could be the main beneficiary if the Trump administration goes ahead with troop withdrawal.
"It shows that Trump does not care about Afghanistan," said analyst Ruttig.
Read more:US, Pakistani foreign ministers fail to break Afghanistan impasse

Title: 9 Haqqani Network leaders released
ABU DHABI/PESHAWAR: Haqqani Network leader has been released from an Afghan prison, sources related Afghan peace talks informed Geo News.According to the details received by one of the main leaders of Haqqani Network faction of Taliban Anas Haqqani and eight others have been released by the Afghan intelligence agency from prison.Anas Haqqani is the youngest son of the founder of Haqqani Network Jalaluddin Haqqani and younger brother of the current leader of Haqqani Network Sirajuddin Haqqani.It is pertinent to mention, Anas Haqqani was arrested by the Afghan intelligence agency on 14 October 2014 from Afghanistan’s Khost province. According to the sources, the release of Taliban commander is the result of dialogues between the Taliban and America in UAE.It is believed, the recent release is part of the deal of prisoners exchange.Meanwhile, Afghan Taliban and family circles of Jalaluddin Haqqani were quick to deny reports that mostly appeared in the Afghan media and were widely circulated on social media.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid released a statement to deny media reports about the release of Anas Haqqani.Also, sources close to the family of Jalaluddin Haqqani denied Anas Haqqani’s release. “Actually the confusion was created when the Afghan security shifted Anas Haqqani from one block to another in the same prison. The prisoners in the jail saw him being taken by the Afghan security forces and felt he has been freed. They started calling people that Anas Haqqani has been released,” said a source close to the Haqqani family.He said a delegation of the Afghan Taliban had long delivered a list of their prisoners to the US officials when they first met in Qatar a few months ago and the names of Anas Haqqani and Hafiz Rasheed were included in the list.The name of Haji Mali Khan, maternal uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the operational chief of Haqqani Network and deputy leader of Afghan Taliban, was also put in the top list of detained Taliban leaders.Taliban sources said that besides other important issues, the prisoners’ issue was discussed in detail in recent peace talks between US and Taliban in the UAE. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Pakistan also took part in the peace talks.US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
According to the details received by one of the main leaders of Haqqani Network faction of Taliban Anas Haqqani and eight others have been released by the Afghan intelligence agency from prison.Anas Haqqani is the youngest son of the founder of Haqqani Network Jalaluddin Haqqani and younger brother of the current leader of Haqqani Network Sirajuddin Haqqani.It is pertinent to mention, Anas Haqqani was arrested by the Afghan intelligence agency on 14 October 2014 from Afghanistan’s Khost province. According to the sources, the release of Taliban commander is the result of dialogues between the Taliban and America in UAE.It is believed, the recent release is part of the deal of prisoners exchange.Meanwhile, Afghan Taliban and family circles of Jalaluddin Haqqani were quick to deny reports that mostly appeared in the Afghan media and were widely circulated on social media.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid released a statement to deny media reports about the release of Anas Haqqani.Also, sources close to the family of Jalaluddin Haqqani denied Anas Haqqani’s release. “Actually the confusion was created when the Afghan security shifted Anas Haqqani from one block to another in the same prison. The prisoners in the jail saw him being taken by the Afghan security forces and felt he has been freed. They started calling people that Anas Haqqani has been released,” said a source close to the Haqqani family.He said a delegation of the Afghan Taliban had long delivered a list of their prisoners to the US officials when they first met in Qatar a few months ago and the names of Anas Haqqani and Hafiz Rasheed were included in the list.The name of Haji Mali Khan, maternal uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the operational chief of Haqqani Network and deputy leader of Afghan Taliban, was also put in the top list of detained Taliban leaders.Taliban sources said that besides other important issues, the prisoners’ issue was discussed in detail in recent peace talks between US and Taliban in the UAE. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Pakistan also took part in the peace talks.US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
Anas Haqqani is the youngest son of the founder of Haqqani Network Jalaluddin Haqqani and younger brother of the current leader of Haqqani Network Sirajuddin Haqqani.It is pertinent to mention, Anas Haqqani was arrested by the Afghan intelligence agency on 14 October 2014 from Afghanistan’s Khost province. According to the sources, the release of Taliban commander is the result of dialogues between the Taliban and America in UAE.It is believed, the recent release is part of the deal of prisoners exchange.Meanwhile, Afghan Taliban and family circles of Jalaluddin Haqqani were quick to deny reports that mostly appeared in the Afghan media and were widely circulated on social media.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid released a statement to deny media reports about the release of Anas Haqqani.Also, sources close to the family of Jalaluddin Haqqani denied Anas Haqqani’s release. “Actually the confusion was created when the Afghan security shifted Anas Haqqani from one block to another in the same prison. The prisoners in the jail saw him being taken by the Afghan security forces and felt he has been freed. They started calling people that Anas Haqqani has been released,” said a source close to the Haqqani family.He said a delegation of the Afghan Taliban had long delivered a list of their prisoners to the US officials when they first met in Qatar a few months ago and the names of Anas Haqqani and Hafiz Rasheed were included in the list.The name of Haji Mali Khan, maternal uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the operational chief of Haqqani Network and deputy leader of Afghan Taliban, was also put in the top list of detained Taliban leaders.Taliban sources said that besides other important issues, the prisoners’ issue was discussed in detail in recent peace talks between US and Taliban in the UAE. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Pakistan also took part in the peace talks.US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
It is pertinent to mention, Anas Haqqani was arrested by the Afghan intelligence agency on 14 October 2014 from Afghanistan’s Khost province. According to the sources, the release of Taliban commander is the result of dialogues between the Taliban and America in UAE.It is believed, the recent release is part of the deal of prisoners exchange.Meanwhile, Afghan Taliban and family circles of Jalaluddin Haqqani were quick to deny reports that mostly appeared in the Afghan media and were widely circulated on social media.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid released a statement to deny media reports about the release of Anas Haqqani.Also, sources close to the family of Jalaluddin Haqqani denied Anas Haqqani’s release. “Actually the confusion was created when the Afghan security shifted Anas Haqqani from one block to another in the same prison. The prisoners in the jail saw him being taken by the Afghan security forces and felt he has been freed. They started calling people that Anas Haqqani has been released,” said a source close to the Haqqani family.He said a delegation of the Afghan Taliban had long delivered a list of their prisoners to the US officials when they first met in Qatar a few months ago and the names of Anas Haqqani and Hafiz Rasheed were included in the list.The name of Haji Mali Khan, maternal uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the operational chief of Haqqani Network and deputy leader of Afghan Taliban, was also put in the top list of detained Taliban leaders.Taliban sources said that besides other important issues, the prisoners’ issue was discussed in detail in recent peace talks between US and Taliban in the UAE. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Pakistan also took part in the peace talks.US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
It is believed, the recent release is part of the deal of prisoners exchange.Meanwhile, Afghan Taliban and family circles of Jalaluddin Haqqani were quick to deny reports that mostly appeared in the Afghan media and were widely circulated on social media.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid released a statement to deny media reports about the release of Anas Haqqani.Also, sources close to the family of Jalaluddin Haqqani denied Anas Haqqani’s release. “Actually the confusion was created when the Afghan security shifted Anas Haqqani from one block to another in the same prison. The prisoners in the jail saw him being taken by the Afghan security forces and felt he has been freed. They started calling people that Anas Haqqani has been released,” said a source close to the Haqqani family.He said a delegation of the Afghan Taliban had long delivered a list of their prisoners to the US officials when they first met in Qatar a few months ago and the names of Anas Haqqani and Hafiz Rasheed were included in the list.The name of Haji Mali Khan, maternal uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the operational chief of Haqqani Network and deputy leader of Afghan Taliban, was also put in the top list of detained Taliban leaders.Taliban sources said that besides other important issues, the prisoners’ issue was discussed in detail in recent peace talks between US and Taliban in the UAE. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Pakistan also took part in the peace talks.US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
Meanwhile, Afghan Taliban and family circles of Jalaluddin Haqqani were quick to deny reports that mostly appeared in the Afghan media and were widely circulated on social media.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid released a statement to deny media reports about the release of Anas Haqqani.Also, sources close to the family of Jalaluddin Haqqani denied Anas Haqqani’s release. “Actually the confusion was created when the Afghan security shifted Anas Haqqani from one block to another in the same prison. The prisoners in the jail saw him being taken by the Afghan security forces and felt he has been freed. They started calling people that Anas Haqqani has been released,” said a source close to the Haqqani family.He said a delegation of the Afghan Taliban had long delivered a list of their prisoners to the US officials when they first met in Qatar a few months ago and the names of Anas Haqqani and Hafiz Rasheed were included in the list.The name of Haji Mali Khan, maternal uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the operational chief of Haqqani Network and deputy leader of Afghan Taliban, was also put in the top list of detained Taliban leaders.Taliban sources said that besides other important issues, the prisoners’ issue was discussed in detail in recent peace talks between US and Taliban in the UAE. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Pakistan also took part in the peace talks.US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid released a statement to deny media reports about the release of Anas Haqqani.Also, sources close to the family of Jalaluddin Haqqani denied Anas Haqqani’s release. “Actually the confusion was created when the Afghan security shifted Anas Haqqani from one block to another in the same prison. The prisoners in the jail saw him being taken by the Afghan security forces and felt he has been freed. They started calling people that Anas Haqqani has been released,” said a source close to the Haqqani family.He said a delegation of the Afghan Taliban had long delivered a list of their prisoners to the US officials when they first met in Qatar a few months ago and the names of Anas Haqqani and Hafiz Rasheed were included in the list.The name of Haji Mali Khan, maternal uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the operational chief of Haqqani Network and deputy leader of Afghan Taliban, was also put in the top list of detained Taliban leaders.Taliban sources said that besides other important issues, the prisoners’ issue was discussed in detail in recent peace talks between US and Taliban in the UAE. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Pakistan also took part in the peace talks.US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
Also, sources close to the family of Jalaluddin Haqqani denied Anas Haqqani’s release. “Actually the confusion was created when the Afghan security shifted Anas Haqqani from one block to another in the same prison. The prisoners in the jail saw him being taken by the Afghan security forces and felt he has been freed. They started calling people that Anas Haqqani has been released,” said a source close to the Haqqani family.He said a delegation of the Afghan Taliban had long delivered a list of their prisoners to the US officials when they first met in Qatar a few months ago and the names of Anas Haqqani and Hafiz Rasheed were included in the list.The name of Haji Mali Khan, maternal uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the operational chief of Haqqani Network and deputy leader of Afghan Taliban, was also put in the top list of detained Taliban leaders.Taliban sources said that besides other important issues, the prisoners’ issue was discussed in detail in recent peace talks between US and Taliban in the UAE. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Pakistan also took part in the peace talks.US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
He said a delegation of the Afghan Taliban had long delivered a list of their prisoners to the US officials when they first met in Qatar a few months ago and the names of Anas Haqqani and Hafiz Rasheed were included in the list.The name of Haji Mali Khan, maternal uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the operational chief of Haqqani Network and deputy leader of Afghan Taliban, was also put in the top list of detained Taliban leaders.Taliban sources said that besides other important issues, the prisoners’ issue was discussed in detail in recent peace talks between US and Taliban in the UAE. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Pakistan also took part in the peace talks.US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
The name of Haji Mali Khan, maternal uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the operational chief of Haqqani Network and deputy leader of Afghan Taliban, was also put in the top list of detained Taliban leaders.Taliban sources said that besides other important issues, the prisoners’ issue was discussed in detail in recent peace talks between US and Taliban in the UAE. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Pakistan also took part in the peace talks.US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
Taliban sources said that besides other important issues, the prisoners’ issue was discussed in detail in recent peace talks between US and Taliban in the UAE. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Pakistan also took part in the peace talks.US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
Some prisoners struggled to return to civilian life after their release
Iran shares a more than 900-kilometre border with Afghanistan
Economic Coordination Committee of Pakistan had already approved the export, facilitating the deal
Management of the institution has laid off 8 officers and employees to reduce administrative expenses
Both sides, it was learnt, were using heavy and automatic weapons during the skirmishes
Establishment Division has issued notification of the extension of suspension
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: Haqqani Network leader, 8 others ‘freed’
ABU DHABI/PESHAWAR: Haqqani Network leader has been released from an Afghan prison, sources related Afghan peace talks informed Geo News.According one of the main leaders of Haqqani Network faction of Taliban Anas Haqqani among eight others has been released by the Afghan intelligence agency from prison.Anas Haqqani is the youngest son of the founder of Haqqani Network Jalaluddin Haqqani and younger brother of the current leader of Haqqani Network Sirajuddin Haqqani.It is pertinent to mention, Anas Haqqani was arrested by the Afghan intelligence agency on 14 October 2014 from Afghanistan’s Khost province. According to the sources, the release of Taliban commander is the result of dialogues between the Taliban and America in UAE. It is believed, the recent release is part of the deal of prisoners exchange.Meanwhile, Afghan Taliban and family circles of Jalaluddin Haqqani were quick to deny reports that mostly appeared in the Afghan media and were widely circulated on social media.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid released a statement to deny media reports about the release of Anas Haqqani.Also, sources close to the family of Jalaluddin Haqqani denied Anas Haqqani’s release. “Actually the confusion was created when the Afghan security shifted Anas Haqqani from one block to another in the same prison. The prisoners in the jail saw him being taken by the Afghan security forces and felt he has been freed. They started calling people that Anas Haqqani has been released,” said a source close to the Haqqani family.He said a delegation of the Afghan Taliban had long delivered a list of their prisoners to the US officials when they first met in Qatar a few months ago and the names of Anas Haqqani and Hafiz Rasheed were included in the list. The name of Haji Mali Khan, maternal uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the operational chief of Haqqani Network and deputy leader of Afghan Taliban, was also put in the top list of detained Taliban leaders.Taliban sources said that besides other important issues, the prisoners’ issue was discussed in detail in recent peace talks between US and Taliban in the UAE. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Pakistan also took part in the peace talks.US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
According one of the main leaders of Haqqani Network faction of Taliban Anas Haqqani among eight others has been released by the Afghan intelligence agency from prison.Anas Haqqani is the youngest son of the founder of Haqqani Network Jalaluddin Haqqani and younger brother of the current leader of Haqqani Network Sirajuddin Haqqani.It is pertinent to mention, Anas Haqqani was arrested by the Afghan intelligence agency on 14 October 2014 from Afghanistan’s Khost province. According to the sources, the release of Taliban commander is the result of dialogues between the Taliban and America in UAE. It is believed, the recent release is part of the deal of prisoners exchange.Meanwhile, Afghan Taliban and family circles of Jalaluddin Haqqani were quick to deny reports that mostly appeared in the Afghan media and were widely circulated on social media.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid released a statement to deny media reports about the release of Anas Haqqani.Also, sources close to the family of Jalaluddin Haqqani denied Anas Haqqani’s release. “Actually the confusion was created when the Afghan security shifted Anas Haqqani from one block to another in the same prison. The prisoners in the jail saw him being taken by the Afghan security forces and felt he has been freed. They started calling people that Anas Haqqani has been released,” said a source close to the Haqqani family.He said a delegation of the Afghan Taliban had long delivered a list of their prisoners to the US officials when they first met in Qatar a few months ago and the names of Anas Haqqani and Hafiz Rasheed were included in the list. The name of Haji Mali Khan, maternal uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the operational chief of Haqqani Network and deputy leader of Afghan Taliban, was also put in the top list of detained Taliban leaders.Taliban sources said that besides other important issues, the prisoners’ issue was discussed in detail in recent peace talks between US and Taliban in the UAE. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Pakistan also took part in the peace talks.US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
Anas Haqqani is the youngest son of the founder of Haqqani Network Jalaluddin Haqqani and younger brother of the current leader of Haqqani Network Sirajuddin Haqqani.It is pertinent to mention, Anas Haqqani was arrested by the Afghan intelligence agency on 14 October 2014 from Afghanistan’s Khost province. According to the sources, the release of Taliban commander is the result of dialogues between the Taliban and America in UAE. It is believed, the recent release is part of the deal of prisoners exchange.Meanwhile, Afghan Taliban and family circles of Jalaluddin Haqqani were quick to deny reports that mostly appeared in the Afghan media and were widely circulated on social media.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid released a statement to deny media reports about the release of Anas Haqqani.Also, sources close to the family of Jalaluddin Haqqani denied Anas Haqqani’s release. “Actually the confusion was created when the Afghan security shifted Anas Haqqani from one block to another in the same prison. The prisoners in the jail saw him being taken by the Afghan security forces and felt he has been freed. They started calling people that Anas Haqqani has been released,” said a source close to the Haqqani family.He said a delegation of the Afghan Taliban had long delivered a list of their prisoners to the US officials when they first met in Qatar a few months ago and the names of Anas Haqqani and Hafiz Rasheed were included in the list. The name of Haji Mali Khan, maternal uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the operational chief of Haqqani Network and deputy leader of Afghan Taliban, was also put in the top list of detained Taliban leaders.Taliban sources said that besides other important issues, the prisoners’ issue was discussed in detail in recent peace talks between US and Taliban in the UAE. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Pakistan also took part in the peace talks.US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
It is pertinent to mention, Anas Haqqani was arrested by the Afghan intelligence agency on 14 October 2014 from Afghanistan’s Khost province. According to the sources, the release of Taliban commander is the result of dialogues between the Taliban and America in UAE. It is believed, the recent release is part of the deal of prisoners exchange.Meanwhile, Afghan Taliban and family circles of Jalaluddin Haqqani were quick to deny reports that mostly appeared in the Afghan media and were widely circulated on social media.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid released a statement to deny media reports about the release of Anas Haqqani.Also, sources close to the family of Jalaluddin Haqqani denied Anas Haqqani’s release. “Actually the confusion was created when the Afghan security shifted Anas Haqqani from one block to another in the same prison. The prisoners in the jail saw him being taken by the Afghan security forces and felt he has been freed. They started calling people that Anas Haqqani has been released,” said a source close to the Haqqani family.He said a delegation of the Afghan Taliban had long delivered a list of their prisoners to the US officials when they first met in Qatar a few months ago and the names of Anas Haqqani and Hafiz Rasheed were included in the list. The name of Haji Mali Khan, maternal uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the operational chief of Haqqani Network and deputy leader of Afghan Taliban, was also put in the top list of detained Taliban leaders.Taliban sources said that besides other important issues, the prisoners’ issue was discussed in detail in recent peace talks between US and Taliban in the UAE. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Pakistan also took part in the peace talks.US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
Meanwhile, Afghan Taliban and family circles of Jalaluddin Haqqani were quick to deny reports that mostly appeared in the Afghan media and were widely circulated on social media.Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid released a statement to deny media reports about the release of Anas Haqqani.Also, sources close to the family of Jalaluddin Haqqani denied Anas Haqqani’s release. “Actually the confusion was created when the Afghan security shifted Anas Haqqani from one block to another in the same prison. The prisoners in the jail saw him being taken by the Afghan security forces and felt he has been freed. They started calling people that Anas Haqqani has been released,” said a source close to the Haqqani family.He said a delegation of the Afghan Taliban had long delivered a list of their prisoners to the US officials when they first met in Qatar a few months ago and the names of Anas Haqqani and Hafiz Rasheed were included in the list. The name of Haji Mali Khan, maternal uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the operational chief of Haqqani Network and deputy leader of Afghan Taliban, was also put in the top list of detained Taliban leaders.Taliban sources said that besides other important issues, the prisoners’ issue was discussed in detail in recent peace talks between US and Taliban in the UAE. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Pakistan also took part in the peace talks.US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid released a statement to deny media reports about the release of Anas Haqqani.Also, sources close to the family of Jalaluddin Haqqani denied Anas Haqqani’s release. “Actually the confusion was created when the Afghan security shifted Anas Haqqani from one block to another in the same prison. The prisoners in the jail saw him being taken by the Afghan security forces and felt he has been freed. They started calling people that Anas Haqqani has been released,” said a source close to the Haqqani family.He said a delegation of the Afghan Taliban had long delivered a list of their prisoners to the US officials when they first met in Qatar a few months ago and the names of Anas Haqqani and Hafiz Rasheed were included in the list. The name of Haji Mali Khan, maternal uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the operational chief of Haqqani Network and deputy leader of Afghan Taliban, was also put in the top list of detained Taliban leaders.Taliban sources said that besides other important issues, the prisoners’ issue was discussed in detail in recent peace talks between US and Taliban in the UAE. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Pakistan also took part in the peace talks.US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
Also, sources close to the family of Jalaluddin Haqqani denied Anas Haqqani’s release. “Actually the confusion was created when the Afghan security shifted Anas Haqqani from one block to another in the same prison. The prisoners in the jail saw him being taken by the Afghan security forces and felt he has been freed. They started calling people that Anas Haqqani has been released,” said a source close to the Haqqani family.He said a delegation of the Afghan Taliban had long delivered a list of their prisoners to the US officials when they first met in Qatar a few months ago and the names of Anas Haqqani and Hafiz Rasheed were included in the list. The name of Haji Mali Khan, maternal uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the operational chief of Haqqani Network and deputy leader of Afghan Taliban, was also put in the top list of detained Taliban leaders.Taliban sources said that besides other important issues, the prisoners’ issue was discussed in detail in recent peace talks between US and Taliban in the UAE. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Pakistan also took part in the peace talks.US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
He said a delegation of the Afghan Taliban had long delivered a list of their prisoners to the US officials when they first met in Qatar a few months ago and the names of Anas Haqqani and Hafiz Rasheed were included in the list. The name of Haji Mali Khan, maternal uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani, the operational chief of Haqqani Network and deputy leader of Afghan Taliban, was also put in the top list of detained Taliban leaders.Taliban sources said that besides other important issues, the prisoners’ issue was discussed in detail in recent peace talks between US and Taliban in the UAE. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Pakistan also took part in the peace talks.US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
Taliban sources said that besides other important issues, the prisoners’ issue was discussed in detail in recent peace talks between US and Taliban in the UAE. Saudi Arabia, UAE and Pakistan also took part in the peace talks.US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
US special peace envoy for Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad soon after concluding his talks with Taliban flew to Pakistan and called on Chief of Army Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and as per ISPR statement appreciated Pakistan’s role in the Afghan peace process. He then flew to Kabul and was supposed to meet Afghan president Dr Ashraf Ghani and Chief Executive Dr Abdullah on Thursday.
Some prisoners struggled to return to civilian life after their release
Iran shares a more than 900-kilometre border with Afghanistan
Economic Coordination Committee of Pakistan had already approved the export, facilitating the deal
Management of the institution has laid off 8 officers and employees to reduce administrative expenses
Both sides, it was learnt, were using heavy and automatic weapons during the skirmishes
Establishment Division has issued notification of the extension of suspension
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: No title found


Title: 'State support for terrorist proxies will not be tolerated': US's veiled warning to Pakistan - Times of India
10 reasons to have 1 pomegranate daily
Scenic hill station train journeys in North India
India’s famous tigers and tigresses: The legends of the wild
Tips for guiding your child to greater happiness
How to make South Indian-Style Mysore Masala Dosa at home
'Stree 2, 'Aashiqui' and other films of Shraddha Kapoor to watch
AI imagines how India's top metros will look like in the next 50 years
15 Indian states and the rice dishes they are famous for
How to extract, store, and apply fresh Aloe Vera to aid hair growth
8 hybrid animals that were ‘invented’ by humans

Title: US Warns Pakistan Against Support For Terrorist Proxies In Afghan Report
The US has told all its regional partners, including Pakistan, that state support for terrorist proxies will not be tolerated, the Pentagon has said, expressing concern over the free movement of some terrorists groups in Pakistan that are presenting security challenges for Afghanistan.
The Pentagon, in its semi-annual Afghan report to the US Congress that covers the period of June to November 2018, said on Thursday that Taliban and the Haqqani Network retain freedom of movement in Pakistan.
The Pentagon's remarks came amidst reports that President Donald Trump is planning to withdraw US troops from Afghanistan.
In the report, the Pentagon said that Afghanistan faces a continuing threat from an externally supported insurgency and the highest regional concentration of terrorist groups in the world.
"In this reporting period, the US continued to call on regional partners to reinforce our messages that state support for terrorist proxies will not be tolerated, that cross-border cooperation between Afghanistan and Pakistan is essential, and that the Taliban cannot achieve its objectives through continued military conflict," the Pentagon said.
"Although Pakistani military operations have disrupted some militant sanctuaries, certain groups - such as the Taliban and the Haqqani Network - retain freedom of movement in Pakistan. The United States continues to convey to all levels of Pakistani leadership the importance of taking action against all terrorist and militant groups," it said.
According to the report, the Haqqani network continues to be an integral part of the Taliban's effort to pressure the Afghan government in Kabul and eastern Afghanistan.

Sirajuddin Haqqani's role as a Taliban deputy probably increased Haqqani influence within the Taliban leadership, and resulted in an increase in Haqqani influence to areas outside its normal operating areas of Paktika, Paktiya, and Khost provinces in eastern Afghanistan, it said.
The Afghanistan-Pakistan border region remains a sanctuary for various groups, including the Taliban, al-Qaeda core (AQ), al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), the Haqqani Network (HQN), Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), ISIS-K, East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU).
Terrorist sanctuaries on both sides of the border present security challenges for Afghanistan and Pakistan and pose a threat to regional security and stability, the report said.
The South Asia Strategy, which was announced by Trump in August 2017, has focused on pressuring Pakistan to limit support and safe-haven for proxy terrorist groups and to play a constructive role in facilitating Afghan reconciliation, the Pentagon said.
"Regional efforts in the South Asia Strategy aim to expand burden sharing, neutralize potential spoilers to US and coalition efforts, limit threats to the United States and our allies and partners, and develop and support a durable political settlement in Afghanistan," the Pentagon said.
The South Asia strategy prioritises regional engagement to limit hedging against the Afghan government and create an international consensus for peace.
The Pentagon said the existence of more than 20 terrorist or insurgent groups in Afghanistan and Pakistan requires an Afghan-supported US platform in the region to monitor, contain, and respond to these threats.
TrackLatest NewsLive on NDTV.com and getnewsupdates fromIndiaand around theworld

Title: State support for terrorist proxies will not be tolerated: US
My Account
Follow us on:
Powered By
See the top gainers, losers, invest and get updated what's happening in the crypto market
Invest Now
Powered By
India's Largest Regional Retail Option Traders Summit. (BOTS) is a prestigious options trading event organized by Traders Gurukul. Held on the 2nd OR 3rd Sunday of every month, across top cities in India
Invest Now
Powered By
This functionality will provide users with ease of access navigation and enable create a new revenue line by generating leads of potential customers for brokers in a more integrated manner.
Invest Now
The US has told all its regional partners, including Pakistan, that state support for terrorist proxies will not be tolerated, the Pentagon has said, expressing concern over the free movement of some militant groups in Pakistan that are presenting security challenges for Afghanistan.
The Pentagon, in its semi-annual Afghan report to the US Congress that covers the period of June to November 2018, said on December 20 that Taliban and the Haqqani Network retain freedom of movement in Pakistan.
The Pentagon's remarks came amidst reports that President Donald Trump is planning to withdraw US troops from Afghanistan.
In the report, the Pentagon said that Afghanistan faces a continuing threat from an externally supported insurgency and the highest regional concentration of terrorist groups in the world.
"In this reporting period, the US continued to call on regional partners to reinforce our messages that state support for terrorist proxies will not be tolerated, that cross-border cooperation between Afghanistan and Pakistan is essential, and that the Taliban cannot achieve its objectives through continued military conflict," the Pentagon said.
"Although Pakistani military operations have disrupted some militant sanctuaries, certain groups such as the Taliban and the Haqqani Network retain freedom of movement in Pakistan. The United States continues to convey to all levels of Pakistani leadership the importance of taking action against all terrorist and militant groups," it said.
According to the report, the Haqqani network continues to be an integral part of the Taliban's effort to pressure the Afghan government in Kabul and eastern Afghanistan.
Sirajuddin Haqqani's role as a Taliban deputy probably increased Haqqani influence within the Taliban leadership, and resulted in an increase in Haqqani influence to areas outside its normal operating areas of Paktika, Paktiya, and Khost provinces in eastern Afghanistan, it said.
The Afghanistan-Pakistan border region remains a sanctuary for various groups, including the Taliban, al-Qaeda core (AQ), al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), the Haqqani Network (HQN), Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), ISIS-K, East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU).
Terrorist sanctuaries on both sides of the border present security challenges for Afghanistan and Pakistan and pose a threat to regional security and stability, the report said.
The South Asia Strategy, which was announced by Trump in August 2017, has focused on pressuring Pakistan to limit support and safe-haven for proxy terrorist and militant groups and to play a constructive role in facilitating Afghan reconciliation, the Pentagon said.
"Regional efforts in the South Asia Strategy aim to expand burden sharing, neutralize potential spoilers to US and coalition efforts, limit threats to the United States and our allies and partners, and develop and support a durable political settlement in Afghanistan," the Pentagon said.
The South Asia strategy prioritises regional engagement to limit hedging against the Afghan government and create an international consensus for peace.
The Pentagon said the existence of more than 20 terrorist or insurgent groups in Afghanistan and Pakistan requires an Afghan-supported US platform in the region to monitor, contain, and respond to these threats.
Discover the latestbusiness news,Sensex, andNiftyupdates. ObtainPersonal Financeinsights, tax queries, and expert opinions onMoneycontrolor download theMoneycontrol Appto stay updated!
Copyright Â© e-Eighteen.com Ltd. All rights reserved. Reproduction of news articles, photos, videos or any other content in whole or in part in any form 
        or medium without express writtern permission of moneycontrol.com is prohibited.
You are already a Moneycontrol Pro user.

Title: 
	State support for terrorist proxies will not be tolerated: U.S.  - The Hindu

To enjoy additional benefits
CONNECT WITH US
Updated- December 21, 2018 12:09 pm IST - Washington:
In this October 9, 2018 file photo, Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis speaks with the media before an enhanced honor cordon arrival of Greek Minister of Defense Panagiotis Kammenos at the Pentagon in Washington, U.S.
The U.S. has told all its regional partners, including Pakistan, that state support for terrorist proxies will not be tolerated, the Pentagon has said, expressing concern over the free movement of some militant groups in Pakistan that are presenting security challenges for Afghanistan.
The Pentagon, in its semi-annual Afghan report to the U.S. Congress that covers the period of June to November 2018, said on Thursday that Taliban and the Haqqani Network retain freedom of movement in Pakistan.
The Pentagon’s remarks came amidst reports that President Donald Trump is planning to withdraw US troops from Afghanistan.
In the report, the Pentagon said that Afghanistan faces a continuing threat from an externally supported insurgency and the highest regional concentration of terrorist groups in the world.
“In this reporting period, the US continued to call on regional partners to reinforce our messages that state support for terrorist proxies will not be tolerated, that cross-border cooperation between Afghanistan and Pakistan is essential, and that the Taliban cannot achieve its objectives through continued military conflict,” the Pentagon said.
“Although Pakistani military operations have disrupted some militant sanctuaries, certain groups — such as the Taliban and the Haqqani Network — retain freedom of movement in Pakistan. The United States continues to convey to all levels of Pakistani leadership the importance of taking action against all terrorist and militant groups,” it said.
According to the report, the Haqqani network continues to be an integral part of the Taliban’s effort to pressure the Afghan government in Kabul and eastern Afghanistan.
Sirajuddin Haqqani’s role as a Taliban deputy probably increased Haqqani influence within the Taliban leadership, and resulted in an increase in Haqqani influence to areas outside its normal operating areas of Paktika, Paktiya, and Khost provinces in eastern Afghanistan, it said.
The Afghanistan-Pakistan border region remains a sanctuary for various groups, including the Taliban, al-Qaeda core (AQ), al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), the Haqqani Network (HQN), Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), ISIS-K, East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU).
Terrorist sanctuaries on both sides of the border present security challenges for Afghanistan and Pakistan and pose a threat to regional security and stability, the report said.
The South Asia Strategy, which was announced by Trump in August 2017, has focused on pressuring Pakistan to limit support and safe-haven for proxy terrorist and militant groups and to play a constructive role in facilitating Afghan reconciliation, the Pentagon said.
“Regional efforts in the South Asia Strategy aim to expand burden sharing, neutralize potential spoilers to US and coalition efforts, limit threats to the United States and our allies and partners, and develop and support a durable political settlement in Afghanistan,” the Pentagon said.
The South Asia strategy prioritises regional engagement to limit hedging against the Afghan government and create an international consensus for peace.
The Pentagon said the existence of more than 20 terrorist or insurgent groups in Afghanistan and Pakistan requires an Afghan-supported US platform in the region to monitor, contain, and respond to these threats.
Published- December 21, 2018 12:08 pm IST
USA/Pakistan/Afghanistan/act of terror
Copyright© 2024, THG PUBLISHING PVT LTD. or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved.
BACK TO TOP
Terms & conditions|Institutional Subscriber
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide by ourcommunity guidelinesfor posting your comments.
We have migrated to a new commenting platform. If you are already a registered user of The Hindu and logged in, you may continue to engage with our articles. If you do not have an account please register and login to post comments. Users can access their older comments by logging into their accounts on Vuukle.