Title: MSN


Title: MSN


Title: The Sudan crisis: A power struggle by design | Conflict News | Al Jazeera
How do the rival Sudanese army and the paramilitary RSF stack up against each other, and what might happen next?
The crisis in Sudan is in its fifth week with no end in sight.
Neither the Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF) nor the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) have been able to gain decisive victories in the capital, Khartoum.
But their inability to overpower each other is not totally surprising. Instead, it is largely a byproduct of longtime President Omar al-Bashir’s strategy of rule in a country that has witnessed 16 failed and successful coup attempts since its independence.
Having come to power through a military coup himself in 1989, al-Bashir needed to keep his own army in check without rendering it too weak to maintain his hold on power. A sizable paramilitary is seen as reducing the risk of military coups because it shifts executive power away from a regular military to add a layer of protection against foreseeable mutinies.
For one state to have two sizable, quasi-independent armed forces is extremely risky and only works if these armed forces fulfil different functions to counterbalance each other.
Numbers on the size of Sudan’s army and the RSF vary widely. The SAF isestimated to have about 200,000 active personnelcompared with the RSF, whereestimates range from 70,000-150,000.
With the constitutional task of upholding domestic order and contributing to the country’s development, the SAF is the coercive backbone of Sudan’s political system. Under al-Bashir, military spending accounted for up to 29 percent of Sudanese government expenditures.
Al-Bashir ruled Sudan for 30 years until the military removed him in April 2019 on the back of months-long popular protests. After months of wrangling, the new ruling generals agreed in August 2019 to share power with civilians representing the protest movement during a transitional period before elections.
But in October 2021, Sudan’s fragile democratisation process came to an abrupt end when the leader of the army, Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, and the RSF commander,Mohamed Hamdan “Hemedti” Dagalo, seized total power in a coup. Cracks, however, soon emerged as the pro-democracy protests continued and the thorny issue of the RSF’s integration into the regular army remained unsolved.
Cameron Hudson, an analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said that in terms of their equipment and training, “[the] SAF are a conventional African army in the sense that their order of battle is in the domain of heavy weaponry and armour. They have tanks, armoured personnel carriers, and they have an air force which gives them air superiority.”
According to theSIPRI Arms Transfers Database, in the last decade, Belarus, China, Russia, and Ukraine were the SAF’s most important suppliers of aircraft, missiles and armoured vehicles. A United Nations arms embargo imposed in 2004 in response to violence in the Sudanese region of Darfur had disrupted supply chains for the SAF’s weapons.
“They struggled to keep their equipment operating because they could not get spare parts. Sudan is also a punishing environment for sophisticated weaponry because of the sand and heat. Equipment and maintenance were a challenge [for the SAF]”, Hudson said.
The RSF, on the other hand, is a non-conscripted force that was formally set up as an extension and counterweight to the SAF a decade ago, evolving from the so-called Janjaweed militias under the auspices of al-Bashir to combat secessionism in Darfur.
In 2015, the RSF wasofficially incorporated into the state’s coercive apparatusunder the command of Hemedti, subjugated only under al-Bashir and his National Intelligence and Security Service.
Like the Janjaweed, members of the RSF were recruited by Hemedti from Arab tribes in Darfur. This makes the RSF culturally, ethnically and religiously more cohesive than the conscripted corps of the SAF.
The RSF also has its own revenue streams; private companies owned by Hemedti and members of his family, includingholdingsin gold mining, livestock and infrastructure.



In contrast to the SAF, the Janjaweed’s chief purpose was targeted armed campaigns against non-Arabs in remote areas. The RSF retained the Janjaweed’s tactical setup as a mobile guerrilla and counterinsurgency force. Domestically, it has previously fought inKordofan,the Blue Nile Stateand Khartoum in 2019; outside Sudan, RSF members have fought against the Houthi rebels in Yemen.
In terms of weapons, the RSF uses some government-supplied arms, though it is also known to confiscate weaponry and vehicles from other militia.
“They are much more lightweight, using light armoured jeeps like Thatchers or Toyota Hilux vehicles with 50-calibre machine guns on them,” Hudson said. “The RSF was allowed to diverge and to sustain itself because it played a role that the SAF did not want to play. The SAF has often mobilised militia around the country to do the dirty work and hand-to-hand combat that they did not want to do or could not do.”
As long as the RSF specialised in armed campaigns outside Khartoum, it could grow without directly challenging the SAF’s traditional political hegemony.
But the alliance between al-Burhan and Hemedti during the 2019 and 2021 coups disrupted the fragile co-existence of the two forces. Ultimately, analysts say Hemedti’spolitical ambitionspulled the RSF towards the centre of political power, trespassing into the SAF’s political domain.
With al-Burhan unable to rebuild a political base that would anchor his regime, the RSF’s original role as mutiny insurance devolved into a serious coup risk. The differences in the SAF’s and RSF’s internal organisation, equipment, and specialisation kept both armed forces in check until major disagreements emerged in March over a planned security sector reform aimed at restructuring the military. The intended merger of the RSF into the regular army would have eliminated the paramilitary force as a substantive coup risk while absorbing its firepower and reach in the country’s periphery.
“Usually, there is the risk of power struggles after coups. But coup plotters would find ways to mitigate them before attempting a coup,” researcher Jonathan Powell, from the University of Central Florida, said.
“New incumbents appease potential rivals early on, allocate ministries differently, or assign individuals to political posts far away from the political capital where they cannot cause trouble,” Powell explained.
If fighting does break out from within the military establishment, it is usually short-lived and ends in a quick and clear winner. “It is bizarre that a regime would let an armed force like the RSF become a serious rival in the political capital,” Powell said.
As the sticky matter of the RSF’s integration heated up in the weeks before the fighting, Powell noted that “it could have been that al-Burhan felt more secure in his position than he was.
“I would not discount the possibility that Al-Burhan’s lack of action was to avoid the clashes [between SAF and RSF] that we are seeing right now,” he added.
With the fighting now in its second month, analysts say the urban setting of Khartoum poses a problem for both the RSF and SAF due to their combat histories and specialisations.
“[The SAF is] not known for being highly mobile on the ground, or even being precise with respect to their air force”, Hudson said.
The RSF, on the other hand, never had the same training as the army in defending fixed positions, holding territory, or sustaining attacks.
“The military can use long-range artillery and fighter jets to defend their positions. Up close they have tanks and heavy armour,” Hudson added. “The RSF is not positioned to hold territory and defend positions because it is configured like a guerilla force that strikes and retreats quickly.”
Many RSF recruits are also unfamiliar with the operational environment in the capital.
“These are people from the peripheral regions of the country with very little knowledge of the streets and neighbourhoods in Khartoum. The SAF has an advantage there because the SAF knows Khartoum. At the same time, the SAF is not mobile; it cannot defend positions reasonably well and it is not going to be able to chase the RSF around the city,” said Hudson.
Still, neither force appears to be adjusting its combat tactics to its surroundings.
Hudson pointed out that “the RSF uses the same tactics we know from the Janjaweed: they are pillaging, marauding, and looting in neighbourhoods”. With no established supply lines in Khartoum and their headquarters destroyed, Hudson said RSF fighters “go into people’s homes to steal food, water, supplies, and occupy [them]”.
Early in the crisis, meanwhile, reports surfaced that the Russian Wagner Group was lending tactical support to the RSF. Marcel Plichta, a research fellow at the Centre for Global Law and Governance, said that “there are claims on the use of Wagner aircraft or Wagner-operated airfields to lift material to the RSF, in particular portable surface-to-air missiles. From a military perspective, this niche capability is highly valuable to the RSF because al-Burhan controls the regular military’s air force and the RSF lack strong anti-aircraft capabilities”.
But Plichta cautioned that Wagner is still not a decisive force in this battle.
“The number of contractors currently active in Sudan is small compared to the tens of thousands of RSF and SAF personnel. The founder of the Wagner Group, Yevgeny Prigozhin, benefits from portraying it as more influential than it is. It is important to not overestimate the strength and influence of this group, as much as it is important to not downplay the harm it brings to civilians,” he said.
Because the SAF and RSF were designed to be complementary rather than competing forces within one state, the conflict setting in Khartoum puts both in a deadlock, observers say. At the same time, the rift between al-Burhan and Hemedti has weakened state power.
The unclear situation on the ground deters political actors from intervening, in another blow to the already faltering democratic process.
“The coup in 2021 made it very clear that powerful figures in the security services were not willing to allow democratisation without serious preservation of their powers and the spoils they are getting from the system,” Powell said.
Hudson forecast that as long as neither RSF nor SAF has the upper hand, a chance for negotiations will not be in sight.
“I fear that neither of these sides wants to end the fighting,” he said.
“They have agreed to every ceasefire, though they did not implement them. What might create a real opening for dialogue is if one side is about to win. If one side gains a tactical advantage – like if the RSF is driven out of Khartoum – that might create a real opportunity for them to talk”.












Follow Al Jazeera English:

Title: Sudan crisis: Darfur governor issues call to arms – DW – 05/28/2023
The governor of Sudan's Darfur region has urged citizens to arm themselves amid fears of escalating violence. A shaky nationwide truce is due to expire tomorrow.
The governor of Sudan's conflict-ridden Darfur on Sunday urged residents to take up arms, voicingsupport for the national army in its fightwith the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
Since the conflict erupted in mid-April, much of the fiercest fighting has raged in the capital Khartoum and the western Darfur region,near the border with Chad.
The RSF paramilitaries have originated from the notorious Janjaweed militia, which is accused of countless atrocities in the Darfur war that began two decades ago.
"There are many who do not wish for the safety or rights of citizens and deliberately sabotage national institutions," Darfur governor Mini Minnawi wrote on Twitter.
"I call on all our honorable citizens, the people of Darfur, old and young, men and women, to take up arms to protect their property."
Darfur has already been scarred by decades of unrest, leaving hundreds of thousands dead, more than two million displaced and the region awash with weapons.
In 2003, Sudan's then-president Omar al-Bashir unleash the Janjaweed militia, drawn from Arab nomadic tribes to suppress a rebellion among ethnic minority groups.
Minnawi is a former rebel whose faction fought against the militias, which eventually morphed into the more formalized RSF.
Clashes could be heard overnight and on Sunday in El Fashir, one of the principal cities in Darfur, and in the Sudanese capital, Khartoum.
A weeklongceasefire brokeredby Saudi Arabia and the US is due to run until Monday evening.
Washington and Riyadh are remotely monitoring the truce and called on the army and the RSF to readopt the "imperfectly observed" ceasefire so that humanitarian work can take place.
"There were violations by both parties that significantly impeded the delivery of humanitarian assistance and restoration of essential services," Saudi Arabia and the US said in a joint statement.
The statement noted there had been breaches of the truce, including air strikes and seizure of medical supplies by the army, and looting and occupation of civilian buildings by the RSF.
"Both parties have told facilitators their goal is de-escalation to facilitate humanitarian assistance and essential repairs, yet both parties are posturing for further escalation," it said.
The conflict between the Sudanese army and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) has led to lawlessness and a collapse in services, driving nearly 1.4 million people from their homes.
The regular military led by Gen. Abdel Fattah Burhan and the RSF led by Gen. Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo, have each failed to deliver a decisive blow to the other in their fight for control of the country.
rc/dj (AFP, dpa, Reuters)

Title: Sudan becomes battleground for foreign fighters - World - Business Recorder
KHARTOUM: Sudan has long sent mercenaries abroad, but now the country itself has become a battleground for foreign fighters and shadowy military backers lured by money and gold, experts say. Armed “fortune seekers” are flooding into the fight from across Africa’s Sahel region including Mali, Chad and Niger, UN special representative Volker Perthes has said, warning that “their number is not insignificant”.
Sudan’s army chief Abdel Fattah al-Burhan has accused the rival Rapid Support Forces (RSF) of recruiting fighters from troubled nearby countries, including “mercenaries from Chad, the Central African Republic and Niger”.
Sudan’s army has claimed to have killed “a foreign sniper” in the ranks of the RSF, and witnesses in Khartoum say they have heard some RSF paramilitaries speak French, the language of neighbouring Chad.
For the past month, Sudan has been rocked by deadly battles between de facto leader Burhan and his former deputy, RSF commander Mohamed Hamdan Daglo, also known as Hemeti.
The RSF under Daglo, a former camel trader, emerged out of the notorious Janjaweed militias which from 2003 pillaged villages in the Darfur region where they were accused of widespread atrocities and war crimes.
In recent years the RSF has sent guns for hire into the Yemen war, on the side of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates against Iran-backed Huthi rebels, and to Libya, in support of different camps including eastern-based general Khalifa Haftar.
Washington and Brussels charge the RSF has ties with Russia’s Wagner mercenary group, which is fighting in Ukraine and has long been active in multiple African countries, including Libya where it backed Haftar.
Comments are closed.

Title: Sudan: Churches, Mosques, and Hospitals Attacked as Junta Showdown Continues
Sudan’sRadio DabangareportedMonday that churches, mosques, and hospitals in the capital city of Khartoum were attacked over the weekend as the war between two factions of the ruling military junta continued.
“A Coptic Church was attacked on Sunday morning. Four people were hit by bullets and a priest was assaulted. Mosques were bombed. Two hospitals were raided, reportedly by the members of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF),” Radio Dabanga reported.
The RSF is thejunta factioncontrolled by Mohamed Hamdan “Hemedti” Dagalo, a brutal militia that grew from the infamousJanjaweed gangsthat formed in the 1980s under dictator Omar al-Bashir.
Many of the early Janjaweed fighters were merchants and camel traders banding together to protect their property. The name means “devils on horseback,” referring to their origins as irregular cavalry. Dagalo himself was a school dropout who made his living as a camel trader in Darfur before turning to militia warfare after his family trade caravan was attacked and massacred by bandits.
Bashir had the idea to organize the disparate Janjaweed groups and bring them together as a deputized force that could be deployed against his enemies. In 2013, he tapped Dagalo to head the renamed Rapid Support Forces, and their status was codified in the Sudanese constitution the following year.
The RSF proceed to accumulate a horrifying record of human rights abuses in Darfur, using rape, robbery, and murder as tactics against both rebels and peaceful demonstrators. The robbery tactic was particularly beneficial to Dagalo, who was given special authorization by Bashir to sell gold seized in RSF raids. The former camel trader soon became one of the richest men in Sudan.
Dagalo joined forces with the commander of the Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF), Gen. Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, to force Bashir from power in 2019. The two formed a working relationship after Bashir deployed both SAF and RSF forces to fight as part of the Saudi-led Gulf Arab coalition against the Iran-backed Houthi insurgency in Yemen.
Sudanese government after the fall of Bashir was presented as a partnership between the military and a “Sovereign Council” with both military and civilian members, a transitional arrangement that was supposed to lead back to democracy and civilian rule. Burhan and Dagaloteamed upto overthrowthatarrangement in October 2021, ruling thereafter as a straightforward military junta.
The junta leaders had a severe falling-out in April, each having recruited different international backers to support a bid for total power. Burhan ostensibly supports a three-year transition plan back to civilian rule, but his critics strongly doubt he will voluntarily relinquish power.
Some Sudanese observers believe the conflict between Burhan and Dagalo was stoked by “remnants” of the Bashir regime who hope they can use the chaos to seize control of Sudan. Dagalo’s supporters often accuse Burhan of being an agent of the Bashir remnant, seeking to restore the Islamist regime with himself as the new dictator-for-life.
As for Bashir, he has beenparked in a military hospitalsince the RSF attacked the prison where he has been held since 2019, with an eye toward either freeing him or murdering him, depending on who one asks. Dagalo claims the RSF attacked the prison in a last-ditch attempt to prevent Burhan from restoring the old dictator to his throne.
The rivalry between the two military leaders does not need much stoking, as each has vowed to hunt down and kill the other. The vicious civil war, slowed only the smallest bit by a humanitarian “cease-fire” agreement, hasdisplacedsome 700,000 people,destroyedover a million doses of polio vaccine intended for children, anddrivenmost foreigners out of the country.
According to Radio Dabanga, both factions blamed each other for the rash of weekend violence against houses of worship:
The Democratic Lawyers Front reported yesterday that the Mar Girgis (St George) Church in El Musalma in old Omdurman was attacked at dawn on Sunday.
The lawyers said in a statement that the attack was carried out by an armed group riding in an ordinary vehicle. They shot at the people present. Three worshippers were hit in the leg, the church guard was shot in his abdomen.
The priest, assistant bishop Anba Sarabamon was assaulted. He sustained several fractures. His residence at the church premises was destroyed and his car was stolen.The attackers raided the elderly women residence and the dormitory for young women from abroad a nd robbed them of their money and mobile telephones.
The Coptic Christians werefairly certainthe attack on their church was the work of the RSF, while the RSF claimed it was a false-flag operation perpetrated by an “extremist” wing of Burhan’s military.
Two hospitals were raided over the weekend, including a cardiac and kidney surgery hospital. The Burhan-controlled Ministry of Foreign Affairs blamed the RSF for the medical raids, claiming militia fighters “assaulted the staff, terrorized patients, and stole the ambulances.
Parts of Khartoum came underheavy bombardmenton Sunday, along with its sister cities of Bahri and Omdurman. Burhan gave an order on Sunday to freeze the bank accounts of the RSF and every company accused of helping it. He alsosackedcentral bank governor Hussain Yahia Jankol for unspecified reasons.
Pleaselet us knowif you're having issues with commenting.




Copyright © 2024 Breitbart

Title: At least 100 people were killed during clashes in Sudan’s Darfur region, doctors’ union says | PBS News
Associated PressAssociated Press
Leave your feedback
CAIRO (AP) — Clashes that erupted last month between armed fighters in a city in Sudan’s restive Darfur region killed at least 100 people, according to Sudan’s Doctors Syndicate.
Hospitals were still out of service in the Darfur city of Genena and an accurate count of the wounded was still hard to make, the doctors’ union added in a statement posted on its official Facebook page late Sunday.
The fighting in Genena, which broke out a few days after Sudan’s two rival generals took up arms against each other in the capital of Khartoum, pointed to the possibility that the conflict could engulf other parts of the East African country.
READ MORE:Crowds of people seeking rescue swell at Sudan’s main seaport
The doctors’ union did not specify the two parties to the clashes in Genena, a city of around half a million people located near the border with Chad that has been a flashpoint since the early days of the fighting.
Late last month, residents described howarmed fighters, many wearing the uniform of the Rapid Support Forces paramilitary, rampaged through the city,looting shops and homes and battling with rival forces. They said the fighting was dragging in tribal militias, tapping into longtime hatreds between the region’s two main communities — one that identifies as Arab, the other as East or Central African.
In the early 2000s, African tribes in Darfur that had long complained of discrimination rebelled against the Khartoum government, which responded with a military campaign that the International Criminal Court later said amounted to genocide. State-backed Arab militias known as the Janjaweed were accused of widespread killings, rapes and other atrocities. The Janjaweed later evolved into the Rapid Support Forces paramilitary group, known as the RSF.
At least 481 civilians were killed in Khartoum clashes that erupted in mid-April between the military, led by Gen. Abdel Fattah Burhan, and the RSF, led by Gen. Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, according to the same doctors’ statement. The number of the wounded among civilians has jumped to more than 2,560.
Left:Sudanese refugees who fled the violence in Sudan's Darfur region and Chadian citizens fill their cans with water from a well near the border between Sudan and Chad in Goungour, Chad, May 8, 2023. Zohra Bensemra/Reuters
ByAamer Madhani, Associated Press
BySamy Magdy, Associated Press
BySamy Magdy, Associated Press
BySamy Magdy, Associated Press
ByJamey Keaten, Samy Magdy, Associated Press
Associated PressAssociated Press
Support Provided By:Learn more
Subscribe to Here’s the Deal, our politics
                 newsletter for analysis you won’t find anywhere else.
Thank you. Please check your inbox to confirm.
WorldMay 01
© 1996 - 2024 NewsHour Productions LLC. All Rights Reserved.
PBS is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization.
Sections
About
Stay Connected
Subscribe to Here's the Deal with Lisa Desjardins
Thank you. Please check your inbox to confirm.
Learn more about Friends of the News Hour.
Support for News Hour Provided By

Title: Sudan doctors: At least 100 killed in Darfur clashes – Metro US
CAIRO (AP) — Clashes that erupted last month between armed fighters in a city in Sudan’s restive Darfur region killed at least 100 people, according to Sudan’s Doctors Syndicate.Hospitals were still out of service in the Darfur city of Genena and an accurate count of the wounded was still hard to make, the doctors’ union added in a statement posted on its official Facebook page late Sunday.The fighting in Genena, which broke out a few days after Sudan’s two rival generals took up arms against each other in the capital of Khartoum, pointed to the possibility that the conflict could engulf other parts of the East African country.The doctors’ union did not specify the two parties to the clashes in Genena, a city of around half a million people located near the border with Chad that has been a flashpoint since the early days of the fighting.Late last month, residents described howarmed fighters, many wearing the uniform of the Rapid Support Forces paramilitary, rampaged through the city, looting shops and homes and battling with rival forces. They said the fighting was dragging in tribal militias, tapping into longtime hatreds between the region’s two main communities — one that identifies as Arab, the other as East or Central African.In the early 2000s, African tribes in Darfur that had long complained of discrimination rebelled against the Khartoum government, which responded with a military campaign that the International Criminal Court later said amounted to genocide. State-backed Arab militias known as the Janjaweed were accused of widespread killings, rapes and other atrocities. The Janjaweed later evolved into the Rapid Support Forces paramilitary group, known as the RSF.At least 481 civilians were killed in Khartoum clashes that erupted in mid-April between the military, led by Gen. Abdel Fattah Burhan, and the RSF, led by Gen. Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, according to the same doctors’ statement. The number of the wounded among civilians has jumped to more than 2,560.
Hospitals were still out of service in the Darfur city of Genena and an accurate count of the wounded was still hard to make, the doctors’ union added in a statement posted on its official Facebook page late Sunday.
The fighting in Genena, which broke out a few days after Sudan’s two rival generals took up arms against each other in the capital of Khartoum, pointed to the possibility that the conflict could engulf other parts of the East African country.
The doctors’ union did not specify the two parties to the clashes in Genena, a city of around half a million people located near the border with Chad that has been a flashpoint since the early days of the fighting.
Late last month, residents described howarmed fighters, many wearing the uniform of the Rapid Support Forces paramilitary, rampaged through the city, looting shops and homes and battling with rival forces. They said the fighting was dragging in tribal militias, tapping into longtime hatreds between the region’s two main communities — one that identifies as Arab, the other as East or Central African.
In the early 2000s, African tribes in Darfur that had long complained of discrimination rebelled against the Khartoum government, which responded with a military campaign that the International Criminal Court later said amounted to genocide. State-backed Arab militias known as the Janjaweed were accused of widespread killings, rapes and other atrocities. The Janjaweed later evolved into the Rapid Support Forces paramilitary group, known as the RSF.
At least 481 civilians were killed in Khartoum clashes that erupted in mid-April between the military, led by Gen. Abdel Fattah Burhan, and the RSF, led by Gen. Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, according to the same doctors’ statement. The number of the wounded among civilians has jumped to more than 2,560.
Post an Event
View All Events…
Subscribe
Sign up for our daily news explosion.

Title: Sudan's Darfur conflict: Why an accountant took up arms - BBC News
El Geneina's market has been ransacked during the fighting
Accountant Mohamed Osman has been forced to pick up an AK-47 rifle for the first time in his life to defend his neighbourhood as the conflict in Sudan escalates, inflaming racial tensions between Arabs and other groups in the country's volatile Darfur region.
Mr Osman lives in El Geneina, historically a symbol of black African power in Darfur, that has been shelled, burnt and looted by the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) and allied Arab militiamen. Their notoriety has earned them the nickname Janjaweed, an Arabic word for "devils on horseback" .
"I've never seen such a thing in more than 20 years of war in Darfur. It's awful," Mr Osman, 38, said. We have changed his name for his own safety.
"Whenever there is an attack by the Janjaweed here in El Geneina, their fellow tribesmen come with their arms from across the border in Chad on motorbikes and on horsebacks to assist them," he told the BBC from his home in the northern Ardamata neighbourhood.
Mr Osman's office, in the city centre, is a burnt-out wreck.
"I can't go there, let alone work," he noted, in a matter of fact way.
Another resident, Mohammed Ibrahim, said the city had been taken over by the RSF and Janjaweed, with snipers positioned in buildings and gunmen on streets.
"They're just shooting every place. If you go outside you'll be killed. You can't move, even 200 or 300 metres," Mr Ibrahim told the BBC. His name has also been changed.
Medics reported that at least 280 people have been killed and 160 have been wounded in El Geneina in the last few days alone.
The latest violence is seen by analysts as a clear breach of the 11 May Saudi-brokered agreement between the RSF and the Sudanese army to alleviate the suffering of civilians, while talks aimed at reaching a ceasefire continue in Jeddah.
Mr Osman said that as the fighting advanced closer to Ardamata in recent days, he and many other men in his neighbourhood got AK-47 rifles and began carrying out 24-hour patrols in shifts.
This was something he never imagined doing, as his life used to revolve around keeping track of the finances of his clients.
"We have no choice but to arm ourselves and defend our city," Mr Osman said, pointing out that he could not risk exposing his family - including his mother, sisters, nieces and nephews - to the much-feared paramilitaries and militiamen.
Asked how he acquired his Soviet-made Kalashnikov rifle, he replied wryly: "The cheapest thing you can buy here is a weapon."
In contrast, food has become scarce and prices have rocketed as the RSF and Janjaweed set markets ablaze.
"They even burnt the food and flour that was stored in the markets, as if they want the survivors of bullets to die of hunger," said Ishaq Hussein, a former worker at a non-governmental organization in El Geneina.
The BBC has been unsuccessful in attempts to reach the RSF for comment.
The Massalit people say they have faced racism for years
With a population that was put at around 170,000 in the last census in 2010, El Geneina is the traditional capital of the Massalit kingdom, making it a target for the Janjaweed. They have long been accused of ethnic cleansing against non-Arab groups in Darfur.
"The Janjaweed are killing all the African people starting with the Massalit," Mr Ibrahim said.
Conflict first erupted in Darfur in 2003 when mostly non-Arabs took up arms against the government, complaining about discrimination and a lack of development.
The government retaliated by mobilising the Janjaweed, and later welding them into an estimated 80,000 to 100,000-strong paramilitary force that has now turned on Sudan's military ruler Gen Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, and the army he commands.
The RSF launched an assault on the capital Khartoum on 15 April, with the military retaliating with daily air strikes in a bid to regain control of the city.
But in El Geneina, there is no attempt to fight back against the RSF and the Janjaweed.
"There's a zero presence of the army or any other government body to protect the civilians," Mr Ali said.
The Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC) estimates that about 100,000 people have fled their homes in the city, and remain "at the mercy of the relentless violence, with settlements once again being reduced to ashes".
"We are still unable to deliver emergency aid," NRC added in a statement.
Mr Ibrahim said that water supplies had also been cut.
"Water is a big problem for everyone, even for the donkey," he said.
He made a desperate plea for international help, saying the city has been under attack for 23 consecutive days.
"A lot of injured people don't have any type of treatment, more than hundreds and hundreds and hundreds," Mr Ibrahim said.
He added that he was alone at home, having sent his wife and family to safety.
"I have kids and it's difficult for them to be hearing these guns every day. That's why I sent them out," he said, pointing out that families tend to leave in guided groups before sunrise, when the risk of being confronted by the RSF and Janjaweed is less.
Mr Osman said that if the security crisis deepens, he too will flee to Chad to live in make-shift camps.
"If this does not stop by the mercy of Allah, I will take my family and run to Chad to stay in a shelter built with our clothes rather than being killed here," he said.
On the run from Sudan's Arab militias - again
Darfur: 'I saw pick-up trucks full of dead people'
Why a Darfur sultan regrets a twist of colonial fate
What is going on in Sudan? A simple guide
Over a barrel: Sudan mediators face tough choices
Three ways the conflict in Sudan could play out
The two generals fighting over Sudan's future
Starmer says 'ambitious' reset with Europe will not mean reversing Brexit
Henry Zeffman: Starmer tries to define his Europe 'reset'
Israeli military launches major West Bank operation
'Hellway' - the new-build estate with no end of snags
Food or solar? Farmers divided over land use
Why badminton has become code for teen sex in Hong Kong
World's police in technological arms race with Nigerian mafia
Esports champ wants to get into real world of motorsport
Sabina Shoal: The new flashpoint between China and the Philippines
Oasis tickets and pre-sale ballot - everything you need to know about reunion
Bronze Age jewellery restored to glory after 4,000 years
Have Swiss scientists made a chocolate breakthrough?
Paddy McGuinness goes in search of answers
The presenter, actor and comedian uncovers his family’s journey from Ireland to Bolton
Rana Rahimpour discusses the legend of Takhti
How did Gholamreza Takhti become such a large figurehead as Iran's most loved wrestler?
Colin from Accounts is coming back soon!
Ash and Gordon have moved in together, but there’s a Colin-shaped hole in their hearts
Listen to the Comedy of the Week!
Surreal and silly sketch show from online double act The Lovely Boys
© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.Read about our approach to external linking.

Title: Sudan's Darfur conflict: Why an accountant took up arms
Accountant Mohamed Osman has been forced to pick up an AK-47 rifle for the first time in his life to defend his neighbourhood as the conflict in Sudan escalates, inflaming racial tensions between Arabs and other groups in the country's volatile Darfur region.
Mr Osman lives in El Geneina, historically a symbol of black African power in Darfur, that has been shelled, burnt and looted by the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) and allied Arab militiamen. Their notoriety has earned them the nickname Janjaweed, an Arabic word for "devils on horseback" .
"I've never seen such a thing in more than 20 years of war in Darfur. It's awful," Mr Osman, 38, said. We have changed his name for his own safety.
"Whenever there is an attack by the Janjaweed here in El Geneina, their fellow tribesmen come with their arms from across the border in Chad on motorbikes and on horsebacks to assist them," he told the BBC from his home in the northern Ardamata neighbourhood.
Mr Osman's office, in the city centre, is a burnt-out wreck.
"I can't go there, let alone work," he noted, in a matter of fact way.
Another resident, Mohammed Ibrahim, said the city had been taken over by the RSF and Janjaweed, with snipers positioned in buildings and gunmen on streets.
"They're just shooting every place. If you go outside you'll be killed. You can't move, even 200 or 300 metres," Mr Ibrahim told the BBC. His name has also been changed.
Medics reported that at least 280 people have been killed and 160 have been wounded in El Geneina in the last few days alone.
The latest violence is seen by analysts as a clear breach of the 11 May Saudi-brokered agreement between the RSF and the Sudanese army to alleviate the suffering of civilians, while talks aimed at reaching a ceasefire continue in Jeddah.
Mr Osman said that as the fighting advanced closer to Ardamata in recent days, he and many other men in his neighbourhood got AK-47 rifles and began carrying out 24-hour patrols in shifts.
This was something he never imagined doing, as his life used to revolve around keeping track of the finances of his clients.
"We have no choice but to arm ourselves and defend our city," Mr Osman said, pointing out that he could not risk exposing his family - including his mother, sisters, nieces and nephews - to the much-feared paramilitaries and militiamen.
Asked how he acquired his Soviet-made Kalashnikov rifle, he replied wryly: "The cheapest thing you can buy here is a weapon."
In contrast, food has become scarce and prices have rocketed as the RSF and Janjaweed set markets ablaze.
"They even burnt the food and flour that was stored in the markets, as if they want the survivors of bullets to die of hunger," said Ishaq Hussein, a former worker at a non-governmental organization in El Geneina.
The BBC has been unsuccessful in attempts to reach the RSF for comment.
With a population that was put at around 170,000 in the last census in 2010, El Geneina is the traditional capital of the Massalit kingdom, making it a target for the Janjaweed. They have long been accused of ethnic cleansing against non-Arab groups in Darfur.
"The Janjaweed are killing all the African people starting with the Massalit," Mr Ibrahim said.
Conflict first erupted in Darfur in 2003 when mostly non-Arabs took up arms against the government, complaining about discrimination and a lack of development.
The government retaliated by mobilising the Janjaweed, and later welding them into an estimated 80,000 to 100,000-strong paramilitary force that has now turned on Sudan's military ruler Gen Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, and the army he commands.
The RSF launched an assault on the capital Khartoum on 15 April, with the military retaliating with daily air strikes in a bid to regain control of the city.
But in El Geneina, there is no attempt to fight back against the RSF and the Janjaweed.
"There's a zero presence of the army or any other government body to protect the civilians," Mr Ali said.
The Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC) estimates that about 100,000 people have fled their homes in the city, and remain "at the mercy of the relentless violence, with settlements once again being reduced to ashes".
"We are still unable to deliver emergency aid," NRC added in a statement.
Mr Ibrahim said that water supplies had also been cut.
"Water is a big problem for everyone, even for the donkey," he said.
He made a desperate plea for international help, saying the city has been under attack for 23 consecutive days.
"A lot of injured people don't have any type of treatment, more than hundreds and hundreds and hundreds," Mr Ibrahim said.
He added that he was alone at home, having sent his wife and family to safety.
"I have kids and it's difficult for them to be hearing these guns every day. That's why I sent them out," he said, pointing out that families tend to leave in guided groups before sunrise, when the risk of being confronted by the RSF and Janjaweed is less.
Mr Osman said that if the security crisis deepens, he too will flee to Chad to live in make-shift camps.
"If this does not stop by the mercy of Allah, I will take my family and run to Chad to stay in a shelter built with our clothes rather than being killed here," he said.
Copyright 2024 BBC. All rights reserved.TheBBCisnot responsible for the content of external sites.Read about our approach to external linking.


Title: MSN


Title: MSN


Title: Sudan: Fall Of A Dictator, Two Generals, One War And A Trail Of Carnage

There were signs after the fall of the tyrant president Omar Al Bashir, however this year, no one was prepared for the carnage in Khartoum. The process of transitioning to civil rule fell apart as two key military groups turned against each other over disagreements on handing over process.
Asides the regular Sudanese armed forces, in 2013, al Bashir formed the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) a paramilitary force known as Janjaweeds (devils on horseback) to quell the rebellion in Darfur as a result of ethnic discrimination. General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, Sudan’s de facto ruler has the Sudan Armed Forces loyal to him, while General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, known as Hemedti has the support of the RSF.
After several attempts, I got hold of a journalist in Khartoum, Mustafa Hussein. He told me he was safe and explained to me that the unwillingness of both generals to agree on how to unite both armies and procedures to hand over power to civilians was the cause of the ongoing war.
“When the war started, I had gone to buy some provisions from the shop, when I heard one of my neighbours calling us. He said war had started between the Sudan Armed Forces and RSF. Initially I did not believe him, until I got home, put on the television and realised it was true. At that time my father was at the market, I called him and told him what was going on in the country, and asked him to return home. All this took place at about 9 am on Saturday.
“After about two hours, we saw military planes flying over us. After a few minutes, we heard the bombs, war had broken out in Khartoum. RSF published a video that showed their control over the presidential palace and different strategic locations, but Sudan Armed Forces denied this.
“I believe both sides have no desire to end this through war and sooner or later this will end through dialogue and negotiation,” he said.
Emailing a broadcast journalist in South Sudan, James Arusi, he told me, “Gen. Hamdan Dagalo (vice president) the head of RSF initially known as Janjaweed, a militia group responsible for atrocities in Darfur, and Burhan (president) heading the Sudan Armed Forces are all signatories to the Juba Agreement that brought all armed groups in Sudan together to restore peace after the fall of al-Bashir’s regime.”
He indicated that accusations were traded by the two major parties over dishonesty to the peace agreement, with Gen. Burhan asking for ten months extension of the handing over of military rule to civilian rule was the main cause of the conflict. He also mentioned that secondary causes included refusal of the integration of RSF within two months into the regular army, adding that South Sudan is still engaging both parties to de-escalate the situation.
Reports by the health ministry states about 528 people have been killed and 4,599 wounded. The United Nations believes the real toll is higher.
© 2024Leadership Media Group-All Rights Reserved.
© 2024Leadership Media Group-All Rights Reserved.

Title: Why On Earth is There Fighting in Sudan? - Daily Times
Daily Times
Your right to knowWednesday, August 28, 2024
Op-Ed

Nawazish Ali
May 10, 2023
The loyalty, courage, sincerity, trustworthiness, and simplicity of Sudanese are truly remarkable and set them apart from other races of the Middle East and North African (MENA) region. I admire the Sudanese based on my experience of visiting Sudan regularly from 1999 to 2002. Sudan was once one of the largest and most diverse states in Africa, and even though it split into two in 2011, Sudan and South Sudan still hold a significant amount of proven oil reserves, making them the 23rd largest oil reserve country in the world. They hold a staggering five billion barrels of oil, which is equivalent to 98 times more than the current annual consumption of Sudan.
Nevertheless, despite these positive attributes, the Sudanese people have been subjected to political and economic turmoil that is being manipulated by unknown forces.
The conspiracies involve the exploitation of valuable resources such as oil, diamonds, gold, and land as well as subdue the human resource potential. For years, military coups have dominated the political system in Sudan, with the Army holding a tight grip on power. In April 2019, the people of Sudan had enough and staged a massive protest, leading to the ousting of Omar al-Bashir, who had been in power for a staggering 30 years. However, public demonstrations continued; demanding democratic elections and the establishment of a civilian government. This led to an agreement between the military and the protesters, resulting in the formation of the “Sovereignty Council,” a power-sharing body of military officers and civilians, which will lead Sudan to elections at the end of 2023.
The new political arrangement was short-lived as the military overthrew the interim government in October 2021. General Abdel Fattah Burhan, Commander of the Sudan Armed Forces (SAF), became the de-facto leader of the country. Burhan announced that the military would hold power until elections are held in July 2023. On the other hand, the paramilitaries of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF), a collection of militias created as a parallel command to the Army by General Bashir, mostly fighting in Darfur, follow the former warlord Gen Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, also known as Hemedti. The RSF was formed in 2013 when the Sudanese government formalised pro-government militia groups, particularly the Janjaweed, who were operating in Darfur, southwestern Sudan.
The RSF and the SAF worked jointly to overthrow former President al-Bashir in April 2019. The key issue underpinning the conflict is the integration of RSF with the armed forces. Up until President al-Bashir’s removal in April 2019, the RSF sat under the National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS) rather than the national military. Since then, the RSF’s formal chain of command has been unclear and the RSF has essentially operated with autonomy. The preceding fragmentation and current conflict between the RSF and the SAF mean that the events of 15 April 2023 differ significantly from previous military coups. This situation significantly increases the likelihood of Sudan falling into a prolonged military conflict.
From the inheritance of ancient kingdoms to modern-day challenges, Sudan has faced numerous complexities.
The Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF) and the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) have different military strengths, capabilities, and tasks. The SAF is the primary military force responsible for defending the country and has tanks, fighter jets, and attack helicopters. The RSF is a paramilitary force focused on internal security and counter-insurgency. Given the impressive capabilities of the SAF in terms of weaponry and personnel, particularly their tanks, and utilization of the Air Force, it is highly probable that any eventual ceasefire agreement would be dictated by the SAF upon the RSF. Issues like tribal tensions and civil unrest in Darfur may further exacerbate this conflict. Despite the SAF’s superior capabilities, the ongoing conflict between the two groups may lead to a prolonged civil war. The conflict has significantly diminished the possibility of continuing with its planned transition to a civilian government over the short to medium term.
The prolonged history of Sudan is a tale of intricacy, diversity, and perseverance. From the inheritance of ancient kingdoms to modern-day challenges, Sudan has faced numerous complexities and opportunities. Despite the prevailing disorders, there is a glimmer of hope for Sudan’s future. The country possesses immense potential, with plentiful natural resources, young and educated human resources, and numerous possibilities for future growth and development. The appropriate leadership must be in place to guide the nation toward a brighter future. Additionally, the support of neighbouring regions is crucial in achieving this goal.
The ongoing conflict in Sudan is a matter of great concern, not only for the people of Sudan but for the international community at large. The region has become a battleground for various influential nations, including Russia, the United States, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates, all vying for control and influence. Of particular interest are the Saudis and the UAE, who view the transition of power in Sudan as an opportunity to counteract radical forces in the area. However, the key players who could exert pressure on the rival Sudanese generals are Saudi Arabia, the UAE, and Egypt. By leveraging their influence and financial resources, these nations can play a significant role in resolving the conflict and promoting stability in the region. The international community must also play a role in supporting these efforts and ensuring that the people of Sudan are not left to suffer the consequences of this ongoing conflict.
“The drums of war are the drums of hunger.” (African Proverb)
The writer is a retired Pakistan army officer




More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category

HomeLead StoriesLatest NewsEditor’s Picks
CultureLife & StyleFeaturedVideos
EditorialsOP-EDSCommentaryAdvertise
CartoonsLettersBlogsPrivacy Policy
ContactCompany’s FinancialsInvestor InformationTerms & Conditions
FacebookTwitterInstagramYoutube
Copyright © 2024 Daily TimesWebsite Developed ByDaily Times Developers

Title: Sudan doctors: At least 100 killed in Darfur clashes - Times of India
10 most photogenic UNESCO World Heritage Sites
10 fruit salads to enjoy throughout the year
​Discovering the architecture of India's famous monuments​
In pics: The beautiful house of Bollywood power couple Vicky & Katrina
How to make Beetroot Kofta Curry
10 ways to deeply connect with your children
7 days, 7 hill stations in South India to explore
How to make Railway-style Tomato Shorba
10 cutest puppies that will make your day
8 iconic lines by English romantic poets

Title: Sudan - Calling It a Fight Between the Generals Is Simplistic - allAfrica.com
Northern and Central elites have always prosecuted violence from the centre. Now, the periphery brought the eternal war to Khartoum.
Violence is not new to Sudan. Military rule has plagued the country since independence, despite the Sudanese people's peaceful overthrow of military regimes in1964, 1985, and2019and their vow to never allow a dictatorship again. Civil wars engulfed the South, West, and East, as marginalized peripheries demanded a fair share of wealth and power. They resulted in millions of deaths and millions more of displacements. This is the first time war has been brought to the capital (except for the Mahdists takeover from the British in1884, and the2008attack on the city by the Darfuri armed group, the Justice and Equality Movement). This time around, people watched fighting breaking out in Khartoum on TV screens in real time.
What is taking place in the capital city reflects an accumulation of political, social, and economic grievances against the state. Under military or civilian rule, Northern and Central Sudanese elites have always been in charge of the state. To refer to it as a fight between two generals would be oversimplifying things.
Bashir's equilibrium of power
The Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF) in their present condition, and the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) are products of the Islamist regime of Omer al-Bashir, who ruled Sudan for thirty years (1989-2019). They were meant to watch each other and protect his regime. Furthermore, this equilibrium of power was meant to work against the interests of the Sudanese people in terms of justice, democracy, and fair distribution of wealth and power. The fighting in Khartoum that began on 15 April, 2023 was the logical conclusion of having two parallel armies under separate commands.
Under al-Bashir, the SAF was purged of its professional officers and high-ranking generals. The current generals, including al-Burhan, were promoted based on their loyalty to Islamist ideology, and to Omer al-Bashir. Though broadly reflecting the face of the nation, the army's top brass remains loyal to the Islamist party of the previous regime. Omer al-Bashir's regime may have fallen in 2019, but its army and security remained intact.
The RSF is an offshoot of the notorious Janjaweed Militia, formed in 2003 to quell a rebellion in Darfur against the central government. The SAF Air Force razed villages to the ground; the militia attacked the people on the ground. The main force behind the Janjaweed were the Arab pastoralists, who fought with the non-Arab Darfurian farmers for grazing resources -- a conflict that perhaps climate change has made more pronounced. Hemedti was one of the leaders of the Janjaweed accused of committing genocide, in which between 200,000 and 450,000 people lost their lives and millions were displaced.
The RSF was established in 2013 as a legal entity and parallel military force under Hemedti. Al-Burhan was one of the military officers who trained the RSF. Later, its soldiers served as border guards,partly paid for by the EU, to dissuade immigrants headed for Europe. This was termed theKhartoum Process.
The current conflict hasspilled overinto Darfur. In 2015, the RSF sent troops to fight Yemen's war alongside Saudi and Emirati forces. They made a lot of money from it and gained combat experience. The war in Yemen and the involvement of Russia'sWagner Group in gold mining,in close collaboration with the RSF, introduced a regional and global dimension.
The war against the people
The biggest losers in the conflict are the Sudanese people. Both the SAF and RSF have blood on their hands. They committed atrocities inDarfur, the Nuba Mountains, and Blue NileState. Since December 2018 and after Omer al-Bashir's fall in April 2019, they have killed many peaceful protesters. They massacred over 120 protesters at a sit-inon 3 June, 2019. They colluded on25 October, 2021to depose the military-civilian coalition. Hemedti declared the coup a mistake months later and joined civilians in calling for a handover of power to them, even if his motives were not, let us say, as innocent as he presented them. This put him in direct conflict with the Burhan-led SAF. Thereleasefrom a high-security prison of Ali Haroun, former leader of Omer Al Bashir's party, is the clearest signal that the Islamists in al-Burhan's corner are coming out of the shadows.
If Sudan's Armed Forces win, probably with the help of the Egyptian Air Force, that may herald a wholesale return of the former regime, vengeance uppermost in their minds. If the RSF, better equipped for urban warfare, better-trained in combat, in control of most of Khartoum and entrenched among the civilian population, wins, Sudan would be at the mercy of a tribal and family-owned militia that controls the gold trade in Darfur and other parts of the country. No one can predict which direction it will take at that point. Hemedti, however, claims to be fighting to install civilian rule.
Unsung heroes
The hopeful signs amid adversity are theresistance committees, the unsung heroes in Sudan. They are the grass-roots resistance committees that mobilized protesters and provided services to their local communities. After the outbreak of fighting, they formed various committees to let people know where to get water and help the vulnerable and needy. They guided those who wanted to leave the city on safe routes to take. Some have even established temporary health clinics to help those in dire need of treatment.
Get the latest in African news delivered straight to your inbox
By submitting above, you agree toour privacy policy.
Almost finished...
We need to confirm your email address.
To complete the process, please follow the instructions in the email we just sent you.
There was a problem processing your submission. Please try again later.
One can't compare Sudan to Yemen or Ethiopia. However, when the Prime Minister of Ethiopia started the war in Tigray, he thought it would be over in two weeks. He even celebrated that it was over in three weeks. But the war dragged on for two years.
Mohamed Bin Salman, the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, sparked the war in Yemen, thinking it would be over in a few weeks, given Riyadh's military superiority. The war is now entering its eighth year. Whoever started the fighting in Khartoum, the RSF and SAF promised to end it in a few days. It is easy to start wars but difficult to control how and when they end. In Ethiopia, the war ended when both sides realized they couldn't win militarily. The same is happening in Yemen and may happen in Sudan, too. But the biggest losers are the country, its democratic transition, and its people.
Mohamed Kheir Omer is an African-Norwegian researcher and writer based in Oslo, Norway. He is a former member of the Eritrean Liberation Front (ELF).
Read theoriginalof this report, including embedded links and illustrations, on theAfrican Argumentssite.
How the Generals Disappeared the People On the Way to the Economy
AllAfrica publishes around 500 reports a day from more than100 news organizationsand over500 other institutions and individuals, representing a diversity of positions on every topic. We publish news and views ranging from vigorous opponents of governments to government publications and spokespersons. Publishers named above each report are responsible for their own content, which AllAfrica does not have the legal right to edit or correct.
Articles and commentaries that identify allAfrica.com as the publisher areproduced or commissioned by AllAfrica. To address comments or complaints, pleaseContact us.
AllAfrica is a voice of, by and about Africa - aggregating, producing and distributing 500 news and information items daily from over 100 African news organizations and our own reporters to an African and global public. We operate from Cape Town, Dakar, Abuja, Johannesburg, Nairobi and Washington DC.
Get the latest in African news delivered straight to your inbox
By submitting above, you agree toour privacy policy.
Almost finished...
We need to confirm your email address.
To complete the process, please follow the instructions in the email we just sent you.
There was a problem processing your submission. Please try again later.

Title:  Sudan's Warring Parties Trade Blame Over Truce Breach
ForgotUsernameorPassword

Date
(MENAFN- Jordan Times)  KHARTOUM - Sudan's warring sides accused each other on Thursday of being behind breaches of the latest ceasefire that was negotiated by the US and Saudi Arabia, now in its third day.The one-week truce was violated only minutes after it came into effect on Monday night, with residents of the capital Khartoum reporting air strikes and artillery fire shaking the city.There have since been further breaches of the ceasefire agreement, which is meant to allow for much-needed humanitarian aid to reach war-ravaged parts of the north African country.It is the latest in a series of truces that have all been systematically violated.Since April 15, Sudan's capital and other parts of the country have been gripped by brutal urban warfare between the regular army, the Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF), and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).But though the current ceasefire has been violated, it has allowed for a lull in fighting that has seen frightened residents cautiously venture out of their homes, some for the first time in weeks.Many have gone out for supplies of food and water or to seek much-needed medical attention after nearly six weeks of fighting that has sharply depleted vital supplies and pushed the healthcare system to the brink of collapse.In a statement issued late Wednesday, the RSF, which is led by Mohammed Hamdan Daglo, sought to place the blame for ceasefire breaches on the army led by Sudan's de facto leader Abdel Fattah al-Burhan.The army“launched a series of unwarranted attacks today”, the RSF said, adding that“our forces decisively repelled these assaults”.“Our forces successfully shot down a SAF MiG jet fighter,” it said, reiterating however that it remained“committed to the humanitarian truce” and called on the“aggressors to respect the ceasefire”.The army responded Thursday morning, saying it had“countered an attack on armoured vehicles by the militias of the Rapid Support Forces in a clear violation of the truce”.The United States and Saudi Arabia, which brokered the ceasefire, on Wednesday pointed to reports“indicating that both sides violated the agreement” but said“fighting in Khartoum appeared to be less intense”.The UN envoy for the Horn of Africa, Hanna Tetteh, expressed concern that fighting was still continuing despite the truce.“It's unacceptable and it must stop,” she said.'Calamitous failure'Desperately needed aid has yet to reach the capital despite the brief lull.The conflict has so far killed more than 1,800 people, according to the latest figures from the Armed Conflict Location and Event Data Project.More than a million Sudanese people have been displaced, in addition to 300,000 who have fled to neighbouring countries, according to the United Nations.Conditions have been particularly alarming in the western region of Darfur, already ravaged by a conflict that erupted in 2003 and saw then president Omar Al Bashir unleash the feared Janjaweed militia to crush a rebellion among ethnic minority groups.The RSF traces its origins to the Janjaweed.The UN's refugee coordinator in Sudan, Toby Harward, said the town of Zalengei in Central Darfur state“has been under siege by armed militias for the last days”.Numerous facilities“have been attacked and looted, civilians are unable to seek medical care as healthcare facilities are targeted, and gangs on motorcycles intimidate government workers and restrict civilian movements”, he added.Representatives of the warring Sudanese generals have since early May been involved in negotiations in the Saudi city of Jeddah on the Red Sea.But analysts have repeatedly warned that the two generals are likely prepared for a prolonged conflict.Sudan expert Alex de Waal described the conflict as being the result of a“calamitous failure of diplomacy”.Burhan and Daglo had in 2021 staged a coup that unseated a civilian transitional government but later fell out in a bitter power struggle.MENAFN27052023000028011005ID1106330964

The one-week truce was violated only minutes after it came into effect on Monday night, with residents of the capital Khartoum reporting air strikes and artillery fire shaking the city.
There have since been further breaches of the ceasefire agreement, which is meant to allow for much-needed humanitarian aid to reach war-ravaged parts of the north African country.
It is the latest in a series of truces that have all been systematically violated.
Since April 15, Sudan's capital and other parts of the country have been gripped by brutal urban warfare between the regular army, the Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF), and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
But though the current ceasefire has been violated, it has allowed for a lull in fighting that has seen frightened residents cautiously venture out of their homes, some for the first time in weeks.
Many have gone out for supplies of food and water or to seek much-needed medical attention after nearly six weeks of fighting that has sharply depleted vital supplies and pushed the healthcare system to the brink of collapse.
In a statement issued late Wednesday, the RSF, which is led by Mohammed Hamdan Daglo, sought to place the blame for ceasefire breaches on the army led by Sudan's de facto leader Abdel Fattah al-Burhan.
The army“launched a series of unwarranted attacks today”, the RSF said, adding that“our forces decisively repelled these assaults”.
“Our forces successfully shot down a SAF MiG jet fighter,” it said, reiterating however that it remained“committed to the humanitarian truce” and called on the“aggressors to respect the ceasefire”.
The army responded Thursday morning, saying it had“countered an attack on armoured vehicles by the militias of the Rapid Support Forces in a clear violation of the truce”.
The United States and Saudi Arabia, which brokered the ceasefire, on Wednesday pointed to reports“indicating that both sides violated the agreement” but said“fighting in Khartoum appeared to be less intense”.
The UN envoy for the Horn of Africa, Hanna Tetteh, expressed concern that fighting was still continuing despite the truce.“It's unacceptable and it must stop,” she said.

'Calamitous failure'

Desperately needed aid has yet to reach the capital despite the brief lull.
The conflict has so far killed more than 1,800 people, according to the latest figures from the Armed Conflict Location and Event Data Project.
More than a million Sudanese people have been displaced, in addition to 300,000 who have fled to neighbouring countries, according to the United Nations.
Conditions have been particularly alarming in the western region of Darfur, already ravaged by a conflict that erupted in 2003 and saw then president Omar Al Bashir unleash the feared Janjaweed militia to crush a rebellion among ethnic minority groups.
The RSF traces its origins to the Janjaweed.
The UN's refugee coordinator in Sudan, Toby Harward, said the town of Zalengei in Central Darfur state“has been under siege by armed militias for the last days”.
Numerous facilities“have been attacked and looted, civilians are unable to seek medical care as healthcare facilities are targeted, and gangs on motorcycles intimidate government workers and restrict civilian movements”, he added.
Representatives of the warring Sudanese generals have since early May been involved in negotiations in the Saudi city of Jeddah on the Red Sea.
But analysts have repeatedly warned that the two generals are likely prepared for a prolonged conflict.
Sudan expert Alex de Waal described the conflict as being the result of a“calamitous failure of diplomacy”.
Burhan and Daglo had in 2021 staged a coup that unseated a civilian transitional government but later fell out in a bitter power struggle.
MENAFN27052023000028011005ID1106330964
MENAFN27052023000028011005ID1106330964
Legal Disclaimer:MENAFNprovides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.

Tags
Comments
Category
Date
Daily(English)Daily(Arabic)All()

World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data.
Contact UsClick here
Copyright © 2000MENAFN.All rights reserved.
Design & Devleopment byMENAFN

Title: Ruto Elated After USA, Saudi Arabia Step In to Broker Sudan Peace - Kenyans.co.ke
President William Ruto on Sunday, May 7, hailed the warring parties in the ongoing Sudan war for agreeing to engage in peace talks.
In a statement, the Head of State acknowledged that the steps taken by the two warring factions will not only help them find solutions to the civil conflict but also reach a peaceful resolution under the mediation of the United States and Saudi Arabia.
The talks, which were underway in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, had been hosting both the Sudanese army and the paramilitary group Rapid Support Forces (RSF) after the two factions agreed to a ceasefire.
The Head of State noted that the country should be working towards the establishment of democratic systems of governance that will propel the country into prosperity.
"Kenya welcomes the talks in Jeddah between the warring factions in Sudan facilitated by Saudi Arabia and the USA.
"We urge the sides to commit to making this engagement successful and a step towards ending the conflict and the destruction it has brought on Sudan and its people," Ruto briefed.
Further, Ruto asked the Sudanese army and the paramilitary group Rapid Support Forces (RSF) Generals to consider a face-to-face meeting in which they will agree on howhumanitarian aid would safely reach affected areas.
"We join the people of Sudan, the region and peace-loving citizens of the world for measures to fast-track access to humanitarian aid, guaranteed civilian safety and safe passage across Sudan for all, especially aid workers.
"We hope this marks thereturn of Sudan to democracy and normalcy,"President Ruto stated.
The conflict, which was spread over a period of three weeks, left behind hundreds of both civilian and military deaths as well as thousands of injuries as the Sudanese army and the RSF engaged in a power struggle over who gets to run the resource-rich nation of Sudan.
On April 15, RSF took control of the presidential palace, the state TV station, the residence of the army chief and Khartoum International Airport, as a result, an all-out war broke out.
Sudan had previously experienced several conflicts throughout its history, but one of the most recent and ongoing conflicts is the one in the Darfur region, which began in 2003.
The conflict involved several rebel groups fighting against the Sudanese government, which is accused of oppressing and neglecting the region's non-Arab population.
As a result, there was widespread violence, displacement, and human rights abuses. According to the United Nations, the conflict claimed the lives of over 300,000 people and displaced millions.
at the time, the Sudanese government was accused of arming and supporting Arab militias known as the Janjaweed (currently referred to as Rapid Support Forces), who had been accused of carrying out atrocities against non-Arab populations in the region.
The conflict had been characterized by human rights abuses such as rape, torture, and extrajudicial killings. Efforts to end the conflict had been ongoing, with the Sudanese government and several rebel groups signing several peace agreements over the years.
However, violence and conflict continued to persist in the region despite the separation between Sudan and South Sudan which is majorly made up of Black Africans.
Sudan also experienced conflict in other regions, including the Blue Nile and South Kordofan states, where rebel groups had been fighting against the government since 2011.

Title: 
    Sudan doctors: At least 100 killed in Darfur clashes - 
Las Vegas Sun News
August 28, 2024
By Noha Elhennawy, Associated Press
Monday, May 8, 2023 | 6:47 p.m.
CAIRO — Clashes that erupted last month between armed fighters in a city in Sudan’s restive Darfur region killed at least 100 people, according to Sudan’s Doctors Syndicate.
Hospitals were still out of service in the Darfur city of Genena and an accurate count of the wounded was still hard to make, the doctors’ union added in a statement posted on its official Facebook page late Sunday.
The fighting in Genena, which broke out a few days after Sudan’s two rival generals took up arms against each other in the capital of Khartoum, points to the possibility that the conflict could engulf other parts of the East African country.
The syndicate's death toll comes as talks continue between the warring parties in the Saudi Arabian city of Jeddah. A statement issued by the Saudi foreign ministry on Monday said the negotiations between delegations from the country's military, on one side, and on the other the powerful paramilitary, the Rapid Support Forces, are expected to go on for a few more days.
The talks, which are focused on creating humanitarian corridors to allow aid and civilians to move, are part of a broader diplomatic initiative proposed by Saudi Arabia and the U.S. to stop the fighting.
The doctors' union did not specify the two parties to the clashes in Genena, a city of around half a million people located near the border with Chad that has been a flashpoint since the early days of the fighting.
Late last month, residents described howarmed fighters, many wearing the uniform of the Rapid Support Forces paramilitary, rampaged through the city, looting shops and homes and battling with rival forces. They said the fighting was dragging in tribal militias, tapping into longtime hatreds between the region’s two main communities — one that identifies as Arab, the other as East or Central African.
In the early 2000s, African tribes in Darfur that had long complained of discrimination rebelled against the Khartoum government, which responded with a military campaign that the International Criminal Court later said amounted to genocide. State-backed Arab militias known as the Janjaweed were accused of widespread killings, rapes and other atrocities. The Janjaweed later evolved into the Rapid Support Forces paramilitary group, known as the RSF.
At least 481 civilians were killed in Khartoum clashes that erupted in mid-April between the military, led by Gen. Abdel Fattah Burhan, and the RSF, led by Gen. Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, according to the same doctors’ statement. The number of the wounded among civilians has jumped to more than 2,560.
On Friday, the governor of West Darfur, where Genena is located, accused the RSF of damaging government offices, setting fire to more than 10 shelters housing displaced communities, and looting homes and stores.
“Today, West Darfur is a doomed province. What is left of the Darfur population lives under very harsh conditions," Gen. Khamis Abdullah Abkar said in a video posted on a local news site Friday.
“The international community should not remain silent about the challenge in this province. It should act immediately; people need shelter, food and medicine,” he said.
The paramilitary has repeatedly denied claims that its forces have terrorized civilians or used brutal tactics.
On Monday, Sudan’s leading pro-democracy alliance, which has spearheaded protests against the country's military leaders since 2019, expressed its support for the Jeddah talks and called for an immediate cessation of fighting.
In a statement released Monday, the Forces for the Declaration of Freedom and Change stressed the need for a “comprehensive political solution that would achieve peace, justice, a transition to civilian democratic rule and a military and security reform.”
Locally owned and independent since 1950; Winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Public Service, best news website in the nation & DuPont Award for broadcast journalism
Follow us:
© Las Vegas Sun,2024, All Rights Reserved
© Las Vegas Sun Mobile

Title:  Sudan’s warring factions target doctors and activists | Stars and Stripes
In this undated photo, a woman walks through a market in Khartoum, Sudan. Both sides fighting in Sudan are targeting doctors and activists and silencing the civilian voices seeking to document war crimes and provide services in the face of social collapse, their colleagues said. (Pixabay)
NAIROBI — Both sides fighting in Sudan are targeting doctors and activists and silencing the civilian voices seeking to document war crimes and provide services in the face of social collapse, their colleagues said Wednesday.
War engulfed the African nation April 14 and shows little sign of abating after more than 1 million people fled their homes. Both the military and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) have repeatedly pledged to respect cease-fires and humanitarian law, only to break those promises within minutes. Each side blames the other for sparking and continuing hostilities.
Many Sudanese resist calling the conflict a civil war, pointing out that neither side enjoys wide public support. Instead, they describe it as a naked power struggle between the two men who jointly directed a 2021 coup against a civilian-military government. Gen. Abdel Fattah al-Burhan is the head of the military and the de facto head of state, and Gen. Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo — known as Hemedti — commands the powerful RSF.
In the country’s capital, Khartoum, and elsewhere, the RSF has taken up positions inside civilian homes, hospitals and even churches. Residents blame the RSF for widespread looting, several rapes and forced evictions into streets under crossfire. Social media is alight with images of military airstrikes pummeling the capital and accounts of families pulverized by heavy weapons.
As bombs rained down on hospitals and aid workers fled, civilians revived the neighborhood resistance committees that helped force a dictator from power in 2019 and ensured that the civilians had a place in the government. The committees document attacks, set up rudimentary clinics and try to pool resources such as water and safe housing for those fleeing the fighting. Now those activists are being targeted, some residents said.
Three days ago, the military arrested three activists from the resistance committee in Bahri, the town just north of Khartoum, said Mustafa Makki, who worked alongside them. All three are young: Saddam Juma is 29, while Amer Abboud and Mujahid Anwar are both 27, he said.
The reason for their arrests is unclear, but all were taken from their homes May 14 by uniformed military forces in marked vehicles, he said. They are being held in the Kadro area, north of Bahri, now the site of a major firefight, Makki said.
“We don’t know why they were arrested,” he said. “We don’t support either side, not the military or the RSF.” A second member of the committee confirmed his account.
It was the second time that activists from the Bahri committee have been targeted. Last week, the military arrested two other activists from Bahri and held them for 48 hours. The military’s spokesman was unreachable for comment.
The neighborhood is largely under the control of the RSF, but fierce battles have raged there every day. Its industrial area houses a munitions factory and is the target of frequent battles and airstrikes.
Doctors at Bahri’s Globe Hospital and Hag al-Safi Hospital have also been repeatedly taken against their will and forced to treat RSF fighters, Makki said. Only about 16 percent of the capital’s hospitals are still functioning; many have lost power or water, run out of supplies or been hit by shelling.
“The RSF come, and the doctors say: ‘We have wounded civilians here. Let us treat them first,’” Makki said. “But the RSF said no, we must be first.”
A member of the Central Committee of Sudanese Doctors, who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of retaliation, said she and the other doctors on the committee have received death threats. Many fled, and others stopped going to work, changed their numbers and went into hiding, she said. At least 11 doctors have been killed; one was stabbed, and others were killed in crossfire or when their homes were hit.
She said the threats appeared to come from people connected to former president Omar Hassan al-Bashir, who was forced out of office in 2019 following massive street protests. The doctor told The Washington Post, “The purpose of this threat is to end all the tools of the revolution, including resistance committees and trade unions, so that they do not continue their civil struggle.”
On Wednesday, the U.N. humanitarian office in Geneva said 25 million people, more than half of Sudan’s population, need help. That is 10 million more than before the fighting started and the highest number ever recorded for the country. The office called for $2.6 billion in aid from the international community.
The rival sides are holding talks in Jiddah, Saudi Arabia, with little apparent progress. They have issued statements saying they will protect civilians and allow aid to move, but no details have been given, and the fighting has continued unabated.
On Monday, the Professional Pharmacists Association of Sudan accused the RSF of hijacking a convoy of medical supplies headed to regional hospitals, which have also been hit hard by the fighting.
The group’s statement called the theft of supplies “a death sentence for the residents of the regions,” noting that 95 percent of all pharmaceutical production takes place in the capital. About 830,000 people fleeing the fighting have gone to other towns within Sudan and about 220,000 to neighboring countries, the United Nations said Wednesday.
Community leaders have also been targeted in the city of Geneina in the western region of Darfur, said an activist there, who listed their names in a message: Mahamed Badwi, an engineer, activist and writer; Motaz Abujalli, a journalist and human rights activist; and Adam Taiar, an activist and member of the medical committee. All were killed April 24, he said, by militias aligned with the RSF that went to their homes. The activist spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of retaliation.
The activist said the militias — referred to locally as the Janjaweed, or “devils on horseback” — were carrying out ethnic killings and have also looted and burned the palace of the sultan of the Masalit tribe. The Janjaweed are ethnically Arab militias; the Masalit are a local African tribe that fought the central government and the Janjaweed for nearly 20 years until a peace deal three years ago.
“Janjaweed militia and RSF are using [gunmen] to shoot people who have influence like leaders, intellectuals and professionals,” the activist wrote, saying it was too dangerous to go home. The phone network was too weak to support calls, so he texted quick answers to questions. “No way to get out of the town . . . two days I haven’t met my family . . . even my young brother injured today . . . most of my friends were killed . . . I have no doubt I will be killed by them.”
The death toll in the town as of this past Friday was 556, he said, citing a list kept by clinics. On Tuesday, seven members of one family were killed when the RSF fired heavy weapons into a civilian area.
Lt. Gen. Khamis Abdullah Abkar, the governor of West Darfur, confirmed that more than 500 people have been killed in Geneina since the fighting erupted and that militia members were going house to house in some areas looking for individuals. The hospital was not functioning, and hundreds of wounded people needed urgent medical care, but there was no way to take them to help, he said.
Sign up to receive a daily email of today's top military news stories from Stars and Stripes and top news outlets
      from around the world.
Sign Up Now

Title: Sudan: Battles rage in Darfur on fourth day of a tenuous truce mediated by US, Saudi Arabia – Firstpost
The one-week truce, the latest in a string of accords that have all been routinely broken, was violated only minutes after it went into effect on Monday night
On the fourth day of a tenuous truce mediated by the US and Saudi Arabia, fighting between forces loyal to Sudan’s competing generals shook the western area of Darfur, according to witnesses.
The one-week truce, the latest in a string of accords that have all been routinely broken, was violated only minutes after it went into effect on Monday night.
Further violations of the truce, which is intended to allow much-needed humanitarian relief to reach war-torn areas of the nation, have occurred since, with both warring parties blaming one other.
Residents in El Fasher, North Darfur’s capital, described “battles with all types of weapons” six weeks into a fight between the regular army, commanded by Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
Since it erupted on 15 April, the fighting has killed more than 1,800 people, according to the Armed Conflict Location and Event Data Project.
The United Nations says more than a million Sudanese have been displaced, in addition to 300,000 who have fled to neighbouring countries.
Even before the conflict began, one-third of Sudan’s 45 million people faced famine, and about 25 million people were now in need of humanitarian aid, the UN said.
While the current ceasefire agreement has allowed for a lull in fighting, no humanitarian corridors have been opened to allow civilians to leave or aid to reach the affected areas.
The United States said on Thursday observers had detected the use of artillery, drones and military aircraft as well as fighting both in Khartoum and in Darfur.
“We retain our sanctions authority and if appropriate we will not hesitate to use that authority,” said US State Department spokesman Matthew Miller.
Conditions have been particularly alarming in Darfur, already ravaged by a conflict that erupted in 2003 and saw then-president Omar al-Bashir unleash the feared Janjaweed militia to crush a rebellion among ethnic minority groups.
The RSF, which is led by Burhan’s former deputy Mohammed Hamdan Daglo, traces its origins to the Janjaweed.
Burhan and Daglo had in 2021 staged a coup that unseated a civilian transitional government but later fell out in a bitter power struggle.
Read all theLatest News,Trending News,Cricket News,Bollywood News,India NewsandEntertainment Newshere. Follow us onFacebook,TwitterandInstagram.
Find us on YouTube
is on YouTube
Copyright @ 2024. Firstpost - All Rights Reserved

Title: Sudan Army Calls on Ex-Soldiers to Re-Enlist; Sporadic Fighting Persists
Print
Sudan's army called on Friday for reservists and retired soldiers to re-enlist amid a deadly conflict with a rival paramilitary and asked the United Nations to change its envoy to the country.
The call to former soldiers to present themselves at their nearest military base aimed at strengthening the army in its battle with the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) paramilitary, but may add fuel to the conflict days into a truce.
Sporadic fighting has continued all week, though the cease-fire monitors Saudi Arabia and the United States said earlier on Friday that compliance was improving, but the army moves may indicate it is gearing up for a long conflict.
An army spokesperson said enlistment would be voluntary.
Sudan's existing armed forces law says, however, that retired soldiers remain as reservists, eligible for compulsory re-enlistment. That does not include those who only did Sudan's mandatory two-year military service.
Army leader Abdel-Fatteh al-Burhan wrote to U.N. Secretary General Antonio Guterres on Friday asking him to replace his envoy Volker Perthes, sources in the Sudanese presidency said.
The sources did not give details but Perthes, who was appointed in 2021, had pushed a political transition to civilian rule that some in the army opposed.
"The Secretary-General is shocked by the letter," U.N. spokesperson Stephane Dujarric said on Friday. "The Secretary-General is proud of the work done by Volker Perthes and reaffirms his full confidence in his Special Representative."
Army sources said the military had also intercepted weapons smuggled into a Red Sea province of Sudan by a foreign country, without giving details. The army and RSF began a seven-day truce on Monday intended to allow access to aid and services after battles since mid-April that have killed hundreds and created a refugee crisis.
Despite a drop in fighting, there have still been reports throughout the week of clashes, artillery fire and air strikes. Saudi and U.S. representatives "cautioned the parties against further violations and implored them to improve respect for the ceasefire on May 25, which they did," it added.
Residents of Khartoum who have stayed in the city suffer from breakdowns of electricity, water, health and communication services. Many homes, particularly in well-off areas, have been looted, along with food stores, flour mills and other essential facilities.
"It's all part of the chaos of this war," said Taysir Abdelrahim, who found out from abroad her home was looted. "Even if we were in Sudan there's nothing you can do about it."
One organization helping children with cancer said a guesthouse it operates had been raided, including its safe and patients' rooms. The children had been previously transferred.
Reuters is a news agency founded in 1851 and owned by the Thomson Reuters Corporation based in Toronto, Canada. One of the world's largest wire services, it provides financial news as well as international coverage in over 16 languages to more than 1000 newspapers and 750 broadcasters around the globe.


Title: Agence France-Presse, Author at The South African
Copyright Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
thesouthafrican.com is a division of Blue Sky Publications Ltd. Reproduction without permission prohibited
Home»Archives for Agence France-Presse
King Charles and Kate stepped through the doors of their home, relieved and grateful after their successful surgeries.
Lassine Sinayoko’s stellar performance led Mali to secure a spot in the quarter-finals for the first time since 2013.
Samsung Electronics revealed a substantial 34.57% decline in operating profits for the fourth quarter of 2023.
South African authorities have successfully suspended the contentious New York auction featuring Nelson Mandela’s memorabilia.
South Africa emerged as the giant slayers, toppling Morocco 2-0 in a gripping match on Tuesday at the Africa Cup of Nations,
The ECJ declared on Tuesday that the systematic storage of convicts’ biometric and genetic data until their death is in violation of EU law.
Pharmaceutical giant Pfizer revealed a substantial loss for the fourth quarter of 2023, amounting to $3.4 billion.
A man lost his life after being shot by armed officers, marking a rare occurrence of fatal police shooting in the United Kingdom.
Krepin Diatta did not mince words as he accused the Confederation of African Football (CAF) of corruption following Senegal’s exit.
A senior Hamas official expressed the Palestinian militant group’s earnest desire for a “complete and comprehensive ceasefire” in Gaza.
South Africa’s Corruption Perception Index has plummeted to its lowest point in 12 years, falling below the global average.
Undercover Israeli troops carried out a raid on Ibn Sina hospital in Jenin, West Bank, resulting in the fatal shooting of three Palestinians.
Mali and Burkina Faso officially submitted a “formal notice” of their withdrawal from the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS).
Ivory Coast emerged triumphant against Senegal in a gripping encounter that culminated in a penalty shootout.
The political landscape in South Africa intensifies as the African National Congress (ANC) suspends former President Jacob Zuma.
France finds itself at a crossroads, striving to rebuild and refocus in the upcoming Six Nations tournament.
Nikki Haley accused Donald Trump of attempting to “bully” his way to the Republican presidential nomination.
Ivory Coast’s interim coach emphasised the team’s resolute commitment ahead of their AFCON last-16 clash against reigning champions Senegal.
The Africa Cup of Nations witnessed a spectacular round of last-16 matches, showcasing the prowess of top-notch strikers.
UK Prime Minister Rishi Sunak revealed plans to introduce legislation prohibiting disposable e-cigarettes.
Social Media Platform X, formerly Twitter, has taken decisive action to combat the grave issue of child pornography.
Queen Camilla made her way to The London Clinic to visit King Charles III, who is currently recuperating from corrective prostate surgery.
The injured Mohamed Salah, who had been nursing a hamstring injury, watched helplessly from the sidelines as his team lost 8-7 in penalties.
Burkina Faso, Mali, and Niger have collectively decided to exit the West African Economic Community (ECOWAS).
The International Court of Justice (ICJ) in The Hague has declared that Israel must take all necessary measures to prevent acts of genocide.
Is jy Afrikaans? Kliek hier vir nuus in jou taal!

TheSouthAfrican.com is all about South Africa and the stories that affect South Africans, wherever they are in the world.
We're independent.No agenda.No bias.
Our offices are for administrative purposes only, no visitors will be accepted without an appointment.
South Africa– Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd - Registration Number: 2005/028472/07 - Address: Regus Business Centre, 1st Floor, Block B, North Park, Black River Park, 2 Fir Street, Observatory, Cape Town, 7925, South Africa
Copyright Blue Sky Publications (Pty) Ltd. All Rights Reserved.

Title: Air strikes and guerrilla fighting: The tactics deployed by Sudan's warring sides | Middle East Eye
Adam Osman remembers it all too well. Now living in Abu Shoak, a camp in North Darfur for internally displaced people, Osman told Middle East Eye about the day his town was taken by forces allied to theSudanesestate.
It was 2004 and Kutum, the town in North Darfur, was subjected to aerial bombardment targeting the Sudan Liberation Movement, which was fighting the government of then-president Omar al-Bashir, for a week. Bashir’s forces believed that the village was supporting the insurgency against him.
After the air strikes came the ground attack. Janjaweed militias, which had been empowered by Bashir to brutally crush rebellions in the remote west of Sudan, attacked Kutum, killing civilians and burning buildings.
“They were allied together,” Osman said, of the Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF) and the Janjaweed Border Guards militia headed by Musa Hilal. “They were responsible for the on-the-ground cleansing of the rebels and civilians.”
Today, the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF), which grew out of the Janjaweed militias, is at war with its former ally, the Sudanese army. Its commander,General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, better known as Hemeti, was once a Janjaweed leader in Darfur.
“Hemeti is fighting for himself right now,” Osman said. “He says he is fighting for the Sudanese people, but he is not.”
But like many other people in Darfur, Osman can see the tactics that were used to devastate his land being used once more, and by both sides of the conflict that has torn Sudan apart since it beganon the morning of 15 April.
For decades, civil war in Sudan took place away from the country’s capital, Khartoum. In the South Sudanese civil war, the war in Darfur and the conflict in South Kordofan and Blue Nile states, a particular set of military tactics were deployed.
The Sudanese Armed Forces and other state-sponsored actors would dominate the air, raining down air strikes on rebels and insurgents looking to control the ground by utilising guerrilla tactics.
Now, the streets of Khartoum and its twin city, Omdurman, which house over five million people, are caught in this same deadly dynamic, as the army uses intensive air strikes against its ally-turned-enemy, the paramilitary RSF.
In return, Hemeti's men manoeuvre through the city’s neighbourhoods, still controlling the majority of Khartoum on the ground after they launched an offensive on major army government and army buildings on the morning of 15 April.




Both sides have anti-aircraft guns, anti-tank missiles, artillery and mortars. RSF fighters have beenpicturedwith man-portable air defence systems (Manpads), surface-to-air missile systems, anti-material rifles and machine guns brought back from thewar in Yemen, where the paramilitary fought on the side of the Saudi and Emirati-led coalition.
The RSF has released videos featuringNorth Korean and Chineserocket launchers taken from the army, as well asbattle tanksoriginally supplied by Ukraine. Aircraft, vehicles and all forms of weaponry from across the world are being used by both sides in Sudan’s current conflict.
Paramilitary vehicles and checkpoints dominate most of Khartoum’s main streets, arresting significant numbers of army soldiers and officers, as well as terrifying civilians stuck indoors. Those residents are starting to feel frustrated at the army’s inability to end the war, several eyewitnesses and activists told Middle East Eye.
On the other side, the SAF is using intensive air strikes to target different paramilitary camps, offices and checkpoints. The army is also using aerial bombardment to try and stop its enemy from bringing reinforcements from Kordofan and Darfur into Khartoum.
A Sudanese military expert, who spoke to MEE on condition of anonymity, said that the army’s tactics depended mainly on air strikes, isolating RSF units on the ground and stopping them from bringing in reinforcements, supplies and logistics.
“SAF intelligence, which has most of the data on RSF deployment, capabilities, sources of supply and logistics, has imposed very painful aerial bombardments against its enemy,” the source said. “I think they will continue until they destroy RSF ground capabilities.”
“However,” the source continued, “the RSF was part of the army’s intelligence war in Darfur and other warzones in Sudan and has understood the tactical lesson very well. They have started using the anti-aircraft guns they have to confront the drones, Russian Sukhoi and Mig jet fighters and helicopters of the SAF.”
The expert said that the RSF is looking to counter the army by drawing it into protracted rounds of street fighting, which is one of the paramilitary’s strengths.
“The RSF is using a lot of manoeuvring tactics in street fighting and guerrilla war, including the rotation of checkpoints to avoid aerial targeting, intensive anti-aircraft fire, deployment of snipers and hit-and-run attacks on SAF bases,” the source said.
From 2017 onwards, the RSF, which was established as part of the apparatus of the Sudanese state in 2013, began to establish military bases in Khartoum. The paramilitary acted as a praetorian guard for the autocrat Bashir, protecting him from the wrath of the people and from internal enemies, both real and imagined.




After Bashir was removed in April 2019 following a popular uprising, the RSF rapidly increased the process of establishing themselves in Sudan’s capital, surrounding Khartoum with bases.
The paramilitary has four big camps around the city, including Hatab camp in the north of Khartoum, Taiba in the south, West Omdurman camp and Suba camp in the east. These four bases place the RSF at the four main entrances of Khartoum state.
Hemeti’s men also have many offices in different Khartoum and Omdurman neighbourhoods, as well as the RSF tower inside army headquarters, which is close to Khartoum’s international airport and a slew of other official buildings.
The two sides have traded accusations over the use of human shields and of fighters hiding inside residential neighbourhoods.
The RSF has accused the army of being irresponsible with its use of random air strikes, which have led to many casualties.
Meanwhile, the army says its paramilitary enemy has deployed its forces inside residential neighbourhoods without any thought to the consequences that this would have to civilians. Eyewitnesses in Khartoum have told MEE that they have seen RSF fighters moving into residential homes in their neighbourhoods.
An army officer, who did not want to be named, told MEE that the RSF’s focus was on neutralising the army’s air force capabilities, which give it the upper hand in the war.
“RSF tactics depend on capturing the airports and destroying the runways in order to stop strikes. This is why we saw RSF very keen to capture the airport of Merowi before the eruption of the fighting and [it] also fought aggressively to capture the airports of Khartoum, Wadi Saidna in Omdurman, El-Obeid in North Kordofan, Al Fashir in North Darfur, Sabir airport in West Darfur and others,” he told MEE.
'The RSF has succeeded in bringing some reinforcements and supplies in from Darfur and Kordofan despite some of its vehicles being attacked'
-Sudanese military expert
“Unfortunately, the RSF has partially succeeded in this tactic: they only need to control any airport for a few hours in order to destroy it and flee,” the SAF officer said.
He further noted that his paramilitary rivals have not just destroyed runways, they have also burnt down some aircraft and planes in military airports like Jabal Awliya, south of Khartoum.
However, a source close to the RSF denied the accusations and said that the paramilitary was controlling the majority of military and civilian airports in the country and had not destroyed them intentionally.
“We have the right to stop these air forces from destroying our fighters by burning planes or blowing up runways because we have no pilots to use them and the enemy is using them against our forces and against the civilians,” the RSF source said.
“But in fact, we haven’t done that because we are controlling the majority of airports in the country.”
The battle to control or disrupt supply routes is another key element in the conflict, as both sides continuously look to prevent the enemy from securing supplies, logistics and military reinforcements.
A senior retired army officer told MEE that the control of supply routes was one of the most important strategic considerations in any war, adding that the position of the SAF seemed to be better than the RSF in this regard, and that the army as dominating government institutions including ministries, governors of states and more.
“In terms of supply, the SAF is in a better position as the government institutions are on its side, it has its military bases in Khartoum and other states, so it can secure the fuel, munitions, food and other needs for its forces,” the retired officer said.
“Another thing is that SAF soldiers have a way to get some rest, while that looks to be more difficult for the RSF,” the source, who could not be named, said.
“Using the air strikes, the army has destroyed many RSF convoys of reinforcements and supplies coming from Darfur and Kordofan through Omdurman. The SAF has also blocked most of the borders, especially with Libya and Chad because fighters joining the RSF could have come in from these countries,” he said.
In the first week of the war, the army captured Chevrolet, an RSF base located in the strategic triangle border region between Sudan, Libya and Egypt. Hemeti, whose family hails from Chad, has long drawn young men from the wider region into his paramilitary.
Both sides have accused the other of receiving external support. An Egyptian military sourcetold MEEthat Egyptian pilots were flying Sudanese air force planes targeting the RSF, which has said openly that its base in Red Sea state was bombed by the Egyptian air force. Egypt and the Sudanese military have denied the allegation.
The paramilitary isgetting supportfrom UAE-backed Libyan commander Khalifa Haftar.
The military expert said that the mobility of the RSF and its guerrilla tactics gave it some advantages, as it has no responsibility to protect government institutions and does not need to consider the running of the state, including the payment of salaries and other basic needs.
“The RSF has succeeded in bringing some reinforcements and supplies in from Darfur and Kordofan despite some of its vehicles being attacked,” the military expert said. “The RSF has also attacked army bases, enabling them to get weapons, munitions and supplies before they flee.”
Just as in the Darfur war, the Sudanese Armed Forces have decided to deploy the infamousCentral Reserve Police (CRP)to counter the insurgency tactics used by the RSF.
The armed police force, feared at home and abroad, wassanctioned by the United Statesfor alleged crimes committed in Darfur, and has been accused by Sudan’s resistance committees, the organising force behind the country’s pro-democracy revolution, of committing a series of atrocities against protesters since the October 2021 coup.
The RSF has warned the armed police force not to interfere in the war, saying in a statement: “Don’t engage in a war that you have nothing to do with and do not enable the coup leaders and the associates of the old regime to use you.”
Eyewitnesses in different parts of Khartoum said that the war has aggressively entered deep into residential areas and that clashes are continuous between the central police and the RSF.
The army has also asked residents to leave their houses, with worse clashes expected in the coming days, according to Khartoum residents.
From his camp in Darfur, Osman Adam told MEE that the deployment of the CRP also echoed what had happened to him and his people. With army soldiers not seemingly equipped to handle vicious street fighting effectively, SAF air strikes are being followed up by central police fighters, who are not as afraid to die.
Two decades ago, in Darfur, Hemeti’s fighters were the men sent in by the state in the wake of intensive air strikes. Today, his men are on the other side, standing in the way of the men sent in by the army to follow the bombs that rain down from the sky.
Copyright © 2014 - 2023.Middle East Eye. All rights reserved.Only England and Wales jurisdiction apply in all legal matters.
Middle East Eye          ISSN 2634-2456

Title: Battles rage in Sudan's Darfur on fourth day of truce - The East African

A military vehicle belonging to the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces drives down a street in Khartoum, Sudan on May 25, 2023. PHOTO | AFP
Fighting between forces loyal to Sudan's rival generals on Friday rocked the western region of Darfur, witnesses said, on the fourth day of a fragile US-Saudi-brokered ceasefire.
The one-week truce, the latest in a series of agreements that have all been systematically violated, was breached only minutes after it took effect on Monday night.
There have since been further violations of the ceasefire, which is meant to allow for much-needed humanitarian aid to reach war-ravaged parts of the country, with the warring sides blaming each other.
In El Fasher, the capital of North Darfur, residents reported "battles with all types of weapons", six weeks into a war between the regular army, led by Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
Read:Sudan's army general fires his rival deputy
Since it erupted on April 15, the fighting has killed more than 1,800 people, according to the Armed Conflict Location and Event Data Project.
The United Nations says more than a million Sudanese have been displaced, in addition to 300,000 who have fled to neighbouring countries.
"Even before the conflict began, one-third of Sudan's 45 million people faced famine, and about 25 million people were now in need of humanitarian aid," the UN said.
While the current ceasefire agreement has allowed for a lull in fighting, no humanitarian corridors have been opened to allow civilians to leave or aid to reach the affected areas.
The US said on Thursday observers had detected the use of artillery, drones and military aircraft as well as fighting both in Khartoum and in Darfur.
Read:Sudan war exposes rift between capital and periphery
"We retain our sanctions authority and if appropriate we will not hesitate to use that authority," US State Department spokesman Matthew Miller said.
Conditions have been particularly alarming in Darfur, already ravaged by a conflict that erupted in 2003 and saw former president Omar al-Bashir unleash the feared Janjaweed militia to crush a rebellion among ethnic minority groups.
The RSF, which is led by Burhan's former deputy Mohammed Hamdan Daglo, traces its origins to the Janjaweed.
Burhan and Daglo had in 2021 staged a coup that unseated a civilian transitional government but later fell out in a bitter power struggle.
He will succeed Dr Matshidiso Rebecca Moeti of Botswana, whose two five-year terms end at the session.
The number of deaths is already higher than in 2023, when 600 people died from the disease.
Get Breaking News Delivered to your Inbox

Title: All Pakistanis evacuated from war-hit Sudan - Daily Times
Daily Times
Your right to knowWednesday, August 28, 2024
Pakistan

Web Desk
May 2, 2023

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs announced on Tuesday that over 1,000 Pakistanis had been safely evacuated from the conflict-torn country, adding that “evacuation operations out of the war-torn country have ended.”
While its operations in Sudan had ended, the FO stated in a brief statement that evacuations through Jeddah would continue until all Pakistanis were safely returned.
The ministry thanked China and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in the statement for their assistance in the evacuation process.
“By Allah’s grace and tireless efforts of our embassy in Khartoum led by Amb Regi, supported by Saudi Arab and China and our teams in Jeddah and Islamabad, we have successfully [and] safely evacuated over 1,000 Pakistanis out of Sudan. With this, our evacuation operations out of Sudan have ended,” the FO tweeted.
The ministry announced yesterday that nearly all 1,000 Pakistanis would be evacuated from the conflict-torn country within the next 24 to 48 hours.
Since the conflict began earlier this month, the FO has been working to repatriate Pakistanis who have become stranded in the war zone.
The Pakistanis in Sudan are being evacuated to Port Sudan before being transferred to Jeddah, where the Pakistan Air Force is bringing them home.
Yesterday, the foreign ministry took to Twitter to thank Saudi Arabia for their assistance and support to Pakistanis in need.
Fighting broke out in Sudan on April 15 between forces loyal to army chief Abdel Fattah al-Burhan and his deputy-turned-rival Mohamed Hamdan Daglo, who commands the powerful paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
So far, over 500 people have been killed in the clashes.
Daglo’s RSF arose from the Janjaweed fighters unleashed in Darfur by former strongman Omar al-Bashir, who was accused of war crimes including genocide.
Following widespread citizen protests, the military deposed Bashir in April 2019.
The two generals took power in a coup in 2021, but they later clashed in a bitter power struggle, most recently over the planned integration of the RSF into the regular army.




More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category
More Posts from this Category

HomeLead StoriesLatest NewsEditor’s Picks
CultureLife & StyleFeaturedVideos
EditorialsOP-EDSCommentaryAdvertise
CartoonsLettersBlogsPrivacy Policy
ContactCompany’s FinancialsInvestor InformationTerms & Conditions
FacebookTwitterInstagramYoutube
Copyright © 2024 Daily TimesWebsite Developed ByDaily Times Developers

Title: Sudan war spells more disaster for Darfur city on Chad border | The Star
Friday, 26 May 2023
A view of the interiors of El Geneina Educational Hospital in El Geneina, West Darfur, Sudan, in this picture released on May 10, 2023 and obtained from social media. Abbas Hussein Altom/via REUTERS
ADRE, Chad/CAIRO (Reuters) -     When war engulfed Sudan's capital last month, it quickly spread to the western Darfur region, reigniting an old conflict and sending a wave of refugees over the border into Chad.
Nasr Abdullahi sent his wife, sister and five children to Chad last week, staying behind to wait for news of a 17-year-old son in the capital Khartoum. But when his neighbour's house was burned down and gangs took over the streets, he fled too.
"I couldn't take it anymore, so I decided to leave on foot," the 42-year-old said after arriving exhausted on Wednesday in the Chadian town of Adre, about 27km (17 miles) from El Geneina, the main city in West Darfur State.
"I crossed through the bush and walked west all night."
Residents link the resurgence of violence in El Geneina and other parts of Darfur to the power struggle between Sudan's army and paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) in Khartoum, which has allowed militias in the area to go unchecked.
Those interviewed by Reuters said the attacks since late April in El Geneina were carried out by "Janjaweed" militias, armed men usually thought to come from Arab nomadic tribes riding trucks, motorcycles and horses - the same militias from which the RSF was born.
The RSF denies instigating violence in Darfur, instead blaming the army.
The attacks in El Geneina have razed its markets, power grid and medical facilities, witnesses say, reviving memories of the atrocious violence that erupted in the early 2000s.
Sudan's health ministry says up to 510 people have been killed in the city of about half a million. At least 250,000 people in West Darfur have been internally displaced while another 90,000 have fled to Chad.
With El Geneina's communications now cut off, Abdullahi's account offered a rare glimpse of the chaos.
"Heavy weapons and machine guns are being fired everywhere. When you go out in the morning, you see new bullet holes in the walls," he said, adding that water supplies were cut and food was running scarce in the city he left.
LAND CONFLICT
The feared Janjaweed militias first gained power as the government used them against rebels in Darfur two decades ago. More than 300,000 people were killed and 2.5 million displaced.
The RSF emerged from them and grew into a large paramilitary force with legal status. Its commander, Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, known as Hemedti, became deputy head of Sudan's ruling council after helping topple former leader Omar al-Bashir during a popular uprising in 2019.
Though conflict in Darfur is often described along ethnic lines pitting Arab tribes against non-Arabs, it is also rooted in a struggle for land, intensified by climate change.
"This is between the herder and the farmer. It's about resources and land," said Sultan Saad Bahreldin, leader of the Masalit tribe, the largest bloc of El Geneina residents.
Arab livestock herders migrated to less arid areas during droughts in Darfur in the 1970s and 80s, causing tensions, said Jerome Tubiana, a researcher on the region.
They gained more land as the Janjaweed helped government forces drive back rebels in the conflict from 2003.
But they felt a 2020 peace deal with some rebel groups, which promised the return of displaced people to their land, ignored their needs. Attacks increased as international peacekeepers withdrew.
Five El Geneina residents, most preferring to remain anonymous to avoid retaliation, said by telephone - before lines went down - that they thought the militias aimed to empty the city and that the army had done little to offer protection.
'THEY COME INTO HOMES AND SHOOT'
Instead, armed Masalit men and members of the Sudanese Alliance, a group that signed the peace deal, fight from within the neighbourhoods they live in.
"The militias attacked anyone present in the city, even if they initially targeted Masalit tribes. Even Arab residents were not safe," said Mohamed Aldouma, former governor of the state and member of the Darfur Bar Association, a human rights group.
Lawyer Jamal Abdallah said that witnesses had told him of one incident in El Geneina where seven people were killed in one home, and another in a makeshift clinic where 12 already injured people and a doctor were gunned down.
"The Janjaweed come into homes and shoot," Abdallah added, saying he could see dead bodies and dead animals strewn in the street.
Three people living in El Geneina told Reuters that they saw attackers wearing the RSF's beige uniforms.
The RSF has in the past rebuked individual soldiers for involvement in Janjaweed attacks, but it accuses the army and allied militias of being behind the latest Darfur violence.
Hemedti, who hails from an Arab tribe, called on people in El Geneina in an audio message earlier this week to "reject regionalism and tribalism. Stop fighting amongst yourselves immediately."
An army spokesperson did not respond to a request for comment.
Representatives for the Janjaweed militias could not be reached. Attempts to contact leaders of Arab tribes living in the city failed due to the blackout.
Enaam Alnour, a local activist, said her brother and several male relatives were killed and her neighbourhood was "completely destroyed, burned, looted". She told Reuters from El Geneina that she documented from doctors and witnesses the rape of nine female university students by armed men.
Reuters could not verify those incidents.
The Sudanese Doctors Union said that all of the city's hospitals were destroyed, as well as its blood bank. Photos shared by a local journalist with Reuters showed drip bottles punctured, rendering them useless.
Government buildings, the main market, and aid agency offices were looted, witnesses and aid groups said.
Though West Darfur is the nation's hungriest state, many farmers are unable to access land or supplies to prepare for the rainy season.
At least 85,000 people who had sought refuge after previous attacks inside El Geneina's now-destroyed schools, municipal buildings and mosques are displaced again, said Mathilde Vu, of the Norwegian Refugee Council.
It is dangerous for aid workers to deploy, Vu said. "We are looking at a very bleak future."
(Additional reporting by Mai Shams El-Din, Khalid Abdelaziz and Eleanor Whalley; Writing by Nafisa Eltahir; Editing by Aidan Lewis and Andrew Cawthorne)

Report it to us.
Thank you for your report!

Copyright © 1995-Star Media Group Berhad [197101000523 (10894-D)]
Best viewed on Chrome browsers.

We would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion. Kindly fill the form below
We hope you enjoy this feature!

Title:  Warring parties trade blame over truce breach | The Manila Times 
KHARTOUM, Sudan: Sudan's warring sides accused each other on Thursday of being behind breaches of the latest ceasefire that was negotiated by the US and Saudi Arabia, now in its third day.
The one-week truce was violated only minutes after it came into effect on Monday night, with residents of the capital Khartoum reporting air strikes and artillery fire shaking the city.
Ad-free access

Title: Gold epaulettes for Sudan’s generals
Most Widely Read Newspaper
Lekan Sote
Kindly share this story:
Because Warner Group, a contractor of mercenary services, is a Russian company, many conclude that the war between the generals in Sudan is a proxy war between America and Russia.Recent developments in Sudan seem to support this theory: In 2022, America’s ambassador to Sudan, John D. Godfrey, warned Sudan not to allow the establishment of a Russian military base in the Sudanese territory.By the way, Ambassador Godfrey speaks Russian and Arabic, which suggests that America chose him as ambassador to Sudan with post-cold war calculations and America’s need to readily read Russian intentions in that region.But by February 2023, Sudan approved the Russian military base after talks between Russian Foreign Minister Seygey Lavrov and Sudanese strongman, General Abdel Fattah el-Burhan. Some argue that General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo is the prime sponsor of this initiative.By April 2023, conflict erupted between Sudan Armed Forces and rival Reserve Support Forces, led by el-Burhan’s second-in-command, General Dagalo. Both men, veterans of the Saudi Arabia war in Yemen, lead the Transitional Sovereignty Council that succeeded General Omar al-Bashir.There is tribal rivalry between the generals. While General el-Burhan is from the elite tribe around Khartoum and the River Nile region, General Dagalo is from the rural Darfur region of Western Sudan.The RSF, an offshoot of the ragtag janjaweed forces could not be successfully grafted into the Sudan Armed Forces, as post-Independence Zimbabwe did with the Patriotic Front after liberation fighter, Robert Mugabe, became Prime Minister. So RSF remained as an independent force under General Dagalo.RSF was supervised by Sudan’s National Intelligence and Security Service under General Dagalo. In 2019, RSF carried out the bestial “Khartoum Massacre,” on pro-democracy demonstrations that took place mostly in Khartoum, during the ouster of former strongman, al-Bashir.Janjaweed, or “Devils on horseback,” formed by General Dagalo, is rooted in Islamism, that uses Islam to achieve political objectives, and Pan Arabism, that places the interest of the Arab nation above anything else.Janjaweed originally carried out the violence that the pastoralists, or wandering herdsmen, of Darfur, of western Sudan, wrought against the more sedentary farmer folks. In 2013, Janjaweed transformed into RSF.A sore point is that Generals el-Burhan and Dagalo removed civilian members of the Transitional Sovereignty Council, only for General el-Burhan to inexplicably replace them with loyalists of ousted al-Bashir.The unstated, but real bone of contention between the warring generals, is the gold from the Darfur region, which suggests that the generals would rather wear gold epaulettes, rather than the traditional red epaulettes, on the neck of their starched uniforms.With roughly 90 tonnes annual production mostly from the Hassai Gold Mines, about 50 kilometres South of its Khartoum capital city, Sudan is the 10th largest producer of gold in the world.While the government-owned Sudanese Mineral Resources Company reported a haul of 18 tonnes of gold in 2012, reports indicate that more than 80 per cent balance of the gold mined was smuggled out of the country.Please follow this story carefully: In February 2023, the month that Sudan approved a military base for Russia, some Russians, who worked in the gold mines, were arrested for involvement in smuggling Sudan’s gold.RSF commander, General Dagalo, a major beneficiary of the gold trade, is said to be in support and in cahoots with the Russians.Warner Group, which trains RSF men, reportedly runs a company that is engaged in gold smuggling with RSF. Head of State General el-Burhan probably wants a piece of that action.Together, Warner Group and RSF reportedly smuggle substantial volumes of Sudan’s gold for sale in the jewellery shops of North America, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, the metropolitan economies of the world.Related NewsDubai is said to be the preferred destination for Sudanese gold in recent times, though citizens of the metropolitan economies have the highest financial capacity to purchase the jewellery made from gold.In his personal capacity, General Dagalo, a school dropout and former camel trader, owns al-Junaid, a conglomerate, run by his relatives, with interests in portfolio investments, gold mining, haulage, car rental and steel mining.As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
Recent developments in Sudan seem to support this theory: In 2022, America’s ambassador to Sudan, John D. Godfrey, warned Sudan not to allow the establishment of a Russian military base in the Sudanese territory.By the way, Ambassador Godfrey speaks Russian and Arabic, which suggests that America chose him as ambassador to Sudan with post-cold war calculations and America’s need to readily read Russian intentions in that region.But by February 2023, Sudan approved the Russian military base after talks between Russian Foreign Minister Seygey Lavrov and Sudanese strongman, General Abdel Fattah el-Burhan. Some argue that General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo is the prime sponsor of this initiative.By April 2023, conflict erupted between Sudan Armed Forces and rival Reserve Support Forces, led by el-Burhan’s second-in-command, General Dagalo. Both men, veterans of the Saudi Arabia war in Yemen, lead the Transitional Sovereignty Council that succeeded General Omar al-Bashir.There is tribal rivalry between the generals. While General el-Burhan is from the elite tribe around Khartoum and the River Nile region, General Dagalo is from the rural Darfur region of Western Sudan.The RSF, an offshoot of the ragtag janjaweed forces could not be successfully grafted into the Sudan Armed Forces, as post-Independence Zimbabwe did with the Patriotic Front after liberation fighter, Robert Mugabe, became Prime Minister. So RSF remained as an independent force under General Dagalo.RSF was supervised by Sudan’s National Intelligence and Security Service under General Dagalo. In 2019, RSF carried out the bestial “Khartoum Massacre,” on pro-democracy demonstrations that took place mostly in Khartoum, during the ouster of former strongman, al-Bashir.Janjaweed, or “Devils on horseback,” formed by General Dagalo, is rooted in Islamism, that uses Islam to achieve political objectives, and Pan Arabism, that places the interest of the Arab nation above anything else.Janjaweed originally carried out the violence that the pastoralists, or wandering herdsmen, of Darfur, of western Sudan, wrought against the more sedentary farmer folks. In 2013, Janjaweed transformed into RSF.A sore point is that Generals el-Burhan and Dagalo removed civilian members of the Transitional Sovereignty Council, only for General el-Burhan to inexplicably replace them with loyalists of ousted al-Bashir.The unstated, but real bone of contention between the warring generals, is the gold from the Darfur region, which suggests that the generals would rather wear gold epaulettes, rather than the traditional red epaulettes, on the neck of their starched uniforms.With roughly 90 tonnes annual production mostly from the Hassai Gold Mines, about 50 kilometres South of its Khartoum capital city, Sudan is the 10th largest producer of gold in the world.While the government-owned Sudanese Mineral Resources Company reported a haul of 18 tonnes of gold in 2012, reports indicate that more than 80 per cent balance of the gold mined was smuggled out of the country.Please follow this story carefully: In February 2023, the month that Sudan approved a military base for Russia, some Russians, who worked in the gold mines, were arrested for involvement in smuggling Sudan’s gold.RSF commander, General Dagalo, a major beneficiary of the gold trade, is said to be in support and in cahoots with the Russians.Warner Group, which trains RSF men, reportedly runs a company that is engaged in gold smuggling with RSF. Head of State General el-Burhan probably wants a piece of that action.Together, Warner Group and RSF reportedly smuggle substantial volumes of Sudan’s gold for sale in the jewellery shops of North America, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, the metropolitan economies of the world.Related NewsDubai is said to be the preferred destination for Sudanese gold in recent times, though citizens of the metropolitan economies have the highest financial capacity to purchase the jewellery made from gold.In his personal capacity, General Dagalo, a school dropout and former camel trader, owns al-Junaid, a conglomerate, run by his relatives, with interests in portfolio investments, gold mining, haulage, car rental and steel mining.As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
By the way, Ambassador Godfrey speaks Russian and Arabic, which suggests that America chose him as ambassador to Sudan with post-cold war calculations and America’s need to readily read Russian intentions in that region.But by February 2023, Sudan approved the Russian military base after talks between Russian Foreign Minister Seygey Lavrov and Sudanese strongman, General Abdel Fattah el-Burhan. Some argue that General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo is the prime sponsor of this initiative.By April 2023, conflict erupted between Sudan Armed Forces and rival Reserve Support Forces, led by el-Burhan’s second-in-command, General Dagalo. Both men, veterans of the Saudi Arabia war in Yemen, lead the Transitional Sovereignty Council that succeeded General Omar al-Bashir.There is tribal rivalry between the generals. While General el-Burhan is from the elite tribe around Khartoum and the River Nile region, General Dagalo is from the rural Darfur region of Western Sudan.The RSF, an offshoot of the ragtag janjaweed forces could not be successfully grafted into the Sudan Armed Forces, as post-Independence Zimbabwe did with the Patriotic Front after liberation fighter, Robert Mugabe, became Prime Minister. So RSF remained as an independent force under General Dagalo.RSF was supervised by Sudan’s National Intelligence and Security Service under General Dagalo. In 2019, RSF carried out the bestial “Khartoum Massacre,” on pro-democracy demonstrations that took place mostly in Khartoum, during the ouster of former strongman, al-Bashir.Janjaweed, or “Devils on horseback,” formed by General Dagalo, is rooted in Islamism, that uses Islam to achieve political objectives, and Pan Arabism, that places the interest of the Arab nation above anything else.Janjaweed originally carried out the violence that the pastoralists, or wandering herdsmen, of Darfur, of western Sudan, wrought against the more sedentary farmer folks. In 2013, Janjaweed transformed into RSF.A sore point is that Generals el-Burhan and Dagalo removed civilian members of the Transitional Sovereignty Council, only for General el-Burhan to inexplicably replace them with loyalists of ousted al-Bashir.The unstated, but real bone of contention between the warring generals, is the gold from the Darfur region, which suggests that the generals would rather wear gold epaulettes, rather than the traditional red epaulettes, on the neck of their starched uniforms.With roughly 90 tonnes annual production mostly from the Hassai Gold Mines, about 50 kilometres South of its Khartoum capital city, Sudan is the 10th largest producer of gold in the world.While the government-owned Sudanese Mineral Resources Company reported a haul of 18 tonnes of gold in 2012, reports indicate that more than 80 per cent balance of the gold mined was smuggled out of the country.Please follow this story carefully: In February 2023, the month that Sudan approved a military base for Russia, some Russians, who worked in the gold mines, were arrested for involvement in smuggling Sudan’s gold.RSF commander, General Dagalo, a major beneficiary of the gold trade, is said to be in support and in cahoots with the Russians.Warner Group, which trains RSF men, reportedly runs a company that is engaged in gold smuggling with RSF. Head of State General el-Burhan probably wants a piece of that action.Together, Warner Group and RSF reportedly smuggle substantial volumes of Sudan’s gold for sale in the jewellery shops of North America, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, the metropolitan economies of the world.Related NewsDubai is said to be the preferred destination for Sudanese gold in recent times, though citizens of the metropolitan economies have the highest financial capacity to purchase the jewellery made from gold.In his personal capacity, General Dagalo, a school dropout and former camel trader, owns al-Junaid, a conglomerate, run by his relatives, with interests in portfolio investments, gold mining, haulage, car rental and steel mining.As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
But by February 2023, Sudan approved the Russian military base after talks between Russian Foreign Minister Seygey Lavrov and Sudanese strongman, General Abdel Fattah el-Burhan. Some argue that General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo is the prime sponsor of this initiative.By April 2023, conflict erupted between Sudan Armed Forces and rival Reserve Support Forces, led by el-Burhan’s second-in-command, General Dagalo. Both men, veterans of the Saudi Arabia war in Yemen, lead the Transitional Sovereignty Council that succeeded General Omar al-Bashir.There is tribal rivalry between the generals. While General el-Burhan is from the elite tribe around Khartoum and the River Nile region, General Dagalo is from the rural Darfur region of Western Sudan.The RSF, an offshoot of the ragtag janjaweed forces could not be successfully grafted into the Sudan Armed Forces, as post-Independence Zimbabwe did with the Patriotic Front after liberation fighter, Robert Mugabe, became Prime Minister. So RSF remained as an independent force under General Dagalo.RSF was supervised by Sudan’s National Intelligence and Security Service under General Dagalo. In 2019, RSF carried out the bestial “Khartoum Massacre,” on pro-democracy demonstrations that took place mostly in Khartoum, during the ouster of former strongman, al-Bashir.Janjaweed, or “Devils on horseback,” formed by General Dagalo, is rooted in Islamism, that uses Islam to achieve political objectives, and Pan Arabism, that places the interest of the Arab nation above anything else.Janjaweed originally carried out the violence that the pastoralists, or wandering herdsmen, of Darfur, of western Sudan, wrought against the more sedentary farmer folks. In 2013, Janjaweed transformed into RSF.A sore point is that Generals el-Burhan and Dagalo removed civilian members of the Transitional Sovereignty Council, only for General el-Burhan to inexplicably replace them with loyalists of ousted al-Bashir.The unstated, but real bone of contention between the warring generals, is the gold from the Darfur region, which suggests that the generals would rather wear gold epaulettes, rather than the traditional red epaulettes, on the neck of their starched uniforms.With roughly 90 tonnes annual production mostly from the Hassai Gold Mines, about 50 kilometres South of its Khartoum capital city, Sudan is the 10th largest producer of gold in the world.While the government-owned Sudanese Mineral Resources Company reported a haul of 18 tonnes of gold in 2012, reports indicate that more than 80 per cent balance of the gold mined was smuggled out of the country.Please follow this story carefully: In February 2023, the month that Sudan approved a military base for Russia, some Russians, who worked in the gold mines, were arrested for involvement in smuggling Sudan’s gold.RSF commander, General Dagalo, a major beneficiary of the gold trade, is said to be in support and in cahoots with the Russians.Warner Group, which trains RSF men, reportedly runs a company that is engaged in gold smuggling with RSF. Head of State General el-Burhan probably wants a piece of that action.Together, Warner Group and RSF reportedly smuggle substantial volumes of Sudan’s gold for sale in the jewellery shops of North America, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, the metropolitan economies of the world.Related NewsDubai is said to be the preferred destination for Sudanese gold in recent times, though citizens of the metropolitan economies have the highest financial capacity to purchase the jewellery made from gold.In his personal capacity, General Dagalo, a school dropout and former camel trader, owns al-Junaid, a conglomerate, run by his relatives, with interests in portfolio investments, gold mining, haulage, car rental and steel mining.As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
By April 2023, conflict erupted between Sudan Armed Forces and rival Reserve Support Forces, led by el-Burhan’s second-in-command, General Dagalo. Both men, veterans of the Saudi Arabia war in Yemen, lead the Transitional Sovereignty Council that succeeded General Omar al-Bashir.There is tribal rivalry between the generals. While General el-Burhan is from the elite tribe around Khartoum and the River Nile region, General Dagalo is from the rural Darfur region of Western Sudan.The RSF, an offshoot of the ragtag janjaweed forces could not be successfully grafted into the Sudan Armed Forces, as post-Independence Zimbabwe did with the Patriotic Front after liberation fighter, Robert Mugabe, became Prime Minister. So RSF remained as an independent force under General Dagalo.RSF was supervised by Sudan’s National Intelligence and Security Service under General Dagalo. In 2019, RSF carried out the bestial “Khartoum Massacre,” on pro-democracy demonstrations that took place mostly in Khartoum, during the ouster of former strongman, al-Bashir.Janjaweed, or “Devils on horseback,” formed by General Dagalo, is rooted in Islamism, that uses Islam to achieve political objectives, and Pan Arabism, that places the interest of the Arab nation above anything else.Janjaweed originally carried out the violence that the pastoralists, or wandering herdsmen, of Darfur, of western Sudan, wrought against the more sedentary farmer folks. In 2013, Janjaweed transformed into RSF.A sore point is that Generals el-Burhan and Dagalo removed civilian members of the Transitional Sovereignty Council, only for General el-Burhan to inexplicably replace them with loyalists of ousted al-Bashir.The unstated, but real bone of contention between the warring generals, is the gold from the Darfur region, which suggests that the generals would rather wear gold epaulettes, rather than the traditional red epaulettes, on the neck of their starched uniforms.With roughly 90 tonnes annual production mostly from the Hassai Gold Mines, about 50 kilometres South of its Khartoum capital city, Sudan is the 10th largest producer of gold in the world.While the government-owned Sudanese Mineral Resources Company reported a haul of 18 tonnes of gold in 2012, reports indicate that more than 80 per cent balance of the gold mined was smuggled out of the country.Please follow this story carefully: In February 2023, the month that Sudan approved a military base for Russia, some Russians, who worked in the gold mines, were arrested for involvement in smuggling Sudan’s gold.RSF commander, General Dagalo, a major beneficiary of the gold trade, is said to be in support and in cahoots with the Russians.Warner Group, which trains RSF men, reportedly runs a company that is engaged in gold smuggling with RSF. Head of State General el-Burhan probably wants a piece of that action.Together, Warner Group and RSF reportedly smuggle substantial volumes of Sudan’s gold for sale in the jewellery shops of North America, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, the metropolitan economies of the world.Related NewsDubai is said to be the preferred destination for Sudanese gold in recent times, though citizens of the metropolitan economies have the highest financial capacity to purchase the jewellery made from gold.In his personal capacity, General Dagalo, a school dropout and former camel trader, owns al-Junaid, a conglomerate, run by his relatives, with interests in portfolio investments, gold mining, haulage, car rental and steel mining.As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
There is tribal rivalry between the generals. While General el-Burhan is from the elite tribe around Khartoum and the River Nile region, General Dagalo is from the rural Darfur region of Western Sudan.The RSF, an offshoot of the ragtag janjaweed forces could not be successfully grafted into the Sudan Armed Forces, as post-Independence Zimbabwe did with the Patriotic Front after liberation fighter, Robert Mugabe, became Prime Minister. So RSF remained as an independent force under General Dagalo.RSF was supervised by Sudan’s National Intelligence and Security Service under General Dagalo. In 2019, RSF carried out the bestial “Khartoum Massacre,” on pro-democracy demonstrations that took place mostly in Khartoum, during the ouster of former strongman, al-Bashir.Janjaweed, or “Devils on horseback,” formed by General Dagalo, is rooted in Islamism, that uses Islam to achieve political objectives, and Pan Arabism, that places the interest of the Arab nation above anything else.Janjaweed originally carried out the violence that the pastoralists, or wandering herdsmen, of Darfur, of western Sudan, wrought against the more sedentary farmer folks. In 2013, Janjaweed transformed into RSF.A sore point is that Generals el-Burhan and Dagalo removed civilian members of the Transitional Sovereignty Council, only for General el-Burhan to inexplicably replace them with loyalists of ousted al-Bashir.The unstated, but real bone of contention between the warring generals, is the gold from the Darfur region, which suggests that the generals would rather wear gold epaulettes, rather than the traditional red epaulettes, on the neck of their starched uniforms.With roughly 90 tonnes annual production mostly from the Hassai Gold Mines, about 50 kilometres South of its Khartoum capital city, Sudan is the 10th largest producer of gold in the world.While the government-owned Sudanese Mineral Resources Company reported a haul of 18 tonnes of gold in 2012, reports indicate that more than 80 per cent balance of the gold mined was smuggled out of the country.Please follow this story carefully: In February 2023, the month that Sudan approved a military base for Russia, some Russians, who worked in the gold mines, were arrested for involvement in smuggling Sudan’s gold.RSF commander, General Dagalo, a major beneficiary of the gold trade, is said to be in support and in cahoots with the Russians.Warner Group, which trains RSF men, reportedly runs a company that is engaged in gold smuggling with RSF. Head of State General el-Burhan probably wants a piece of that action.Together, Warner Group and RSF reportedly smuggle substantial volumes of Sudan’s gold for sale in the jewellery shops of North America, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, the metropolitan economies of the world.Related NewsDubai is said to be the preferred destination for Sudanese gold in recent times, though citizens of the metropolitan economies have the highest financial capacity to purchase the jewellery made from gold.In his personal capacity, General Dagalo, a school dropout and former camel trader, owns al-Junaid, a conglomerate, run by his relatives, with interests in portfolio investments, gold mining, haulage, car rental and steel mining.As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
The RSF, an offshoot of the ragtag janjaweed forces could not be successfully grafted into the Sudan Armed Forces, as post-Independence Zimbabwe did with the Patriotic Front after liberation fighter, Robert Mugabe, became Prime Minister. So RSF remained as an independent force under General Dagalo.RSF was supervised by Sudan’s National Intelligence and Security Service under General Dagalo. In 2019, RSF carried out the bestial “Khartoum Massacre,” on pro-democracy demonstrations that took place mostly in Khartoum, during the ouster of former strongman, al-Bashir.Janjaweed, or “Devils on horseback,” formed by General Dagalo, is rooted in Islamism, that uses Islam to achieve political objectives, and Pan Arabism, that places the interest of the Arab nation above anything else.Janjaweed originally carried out the violence that the pastoralists, or wandering herdsmen, of Darfur, of western Sudan, wrought against the more sedentary farmer folks. In 2013, Janjaweed transformed into RSF.A sore point is that Generals el-Burhan and Dagalo removed civilian members of the Transitional Sovereignty Council, only for General el-Burhan to inexplicably replace them with loyalists of ousted al-Bashir.The unstated, but real bone of contention between the warring generals, is the gold from the Darfur region, which suggests that the generals would rather wear gold epaulettes, rather than the traditional red epaulettes, on the neck of their starched uniforms.With roughly 90 tonnes annual production mostly from the Hassai Gold Mines, about 50 kilometres South of its Khartoum capital city, Sudan is the 10th largest producer of gold in the world.While the government-owned Sudanese Mineral Resources Company reported a haul of 18 tonnes of gold in 2012, reports indicate that more than 80 per cent balance of the gold mined was smuggled out of the country.Please follow this story carefully: In February 2023, the month that Sudan approved a military base for Russia, some Russians, who worked in the gold mines, were arrested for involvement in smuggling Sudan’s gold.RSF commander, General Dagalo, a major beneficiary of the gold trade, is said to be in support and in cahoots with the Russians.Warner Group, which trains RSF men, reportedly runs a company that is engaged in gold smuggling with RSF. Head of State General el-Burhan probably wants a piece of that action.Together, Warner Group and RSF reportedly smuggle substantial volumes of Sudan’s gold for sale in the jewellery shops of North America, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, the metropolitan economies of the world.Related NewsDubai is said to be the preferred destination for Sudanese gold in recent times, though citizens of the metropolitan economies have the highest financial capacity to purchase the jewellery made from gold.In his personal capacity, General Dagalo, a school dropout and former camel trader, owns al-Junaid, a conglomerate, run by his relatives, with interests in portfolio investments, gold mining, haulage, car rental and steel mining.As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
RSF was supervised by Sudan’s National Intelligence and Security Service under General Dagalo. In 2019, RSF carried out the bestial “Khartoum Massacre,” on pro-democracy demonstrations that took place mostly in Khartoum, during the ouster of former strongman, al-Bashir.Janjaweed, or “Devils on horseback,” formed by General Dagalo, is rooted in Islamism, that uses Islam to achieve political objectives, and Pan Arabism, that places the interest of the Arab nation above anything else.Janjaweed originally carried out the violence that the pastoralists, or wandering herdsmen, of Darfur, of western Sudan, wrought against the more sedentary farmer folks. In 2013, Janjaweed transformed into RSF.A sore point is that Generals el-Burhan and Dagalo removed civilian members of the Transitional Sovereignty Council, only for General el-Burhan to inexplicably replace them with loyalists of ousted al-Bashir.The unstated, but real bone of contention between the warring generals, is the gold from the Darfur region, which suggests that the generals would rather wear gold epaulettes, rather than the traditional red epaulettes, on the neck of their starched uniforms.With roughly 90 tonnes annual production mostly from the Hassai Gold Mines, about 50 kilometres South of its Khartoum capital city, Sudan is the 10th largest producer of gold in the world.While the government-owned Sudanese Mineral Resources Company reported a haul of 18 tonnes of gold in 2012, reports indicate that more than 80 per cent balance of the gold mined was smuggled out of the country.Please follow this story carefully: In February 2023, the month that Sudan approved a military base for Russia, some Russians, who worked in the gold mines, were arrested for involvement in smuggling Sudan’s gold.RSF commander, General Dagalo, a major beneficiary of the gold trade, is said to be in support and in cahoots with the Russians.Warner Group, which trains RSF men, reportedly runs a company that is engaged in gold smuggling with RSF. Head of State General el-Burhan probably wants a piece of that action.Together, Warner Group and RSF reportedly smuggle substantial volumes of Sudan’s gold for sale in the jewellery shops of North America, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, the metropolitan economies of the world.Related NewsDubai is said to be the preferred destination for Sudanese gold in recent times, though citizens of the metropolitan economies have the highest financial capacity to purchase the jewellery made from gold.In his personal capacity, General Dagalo, a school dropout and former camel trader, owns al-Junaid, a conglomerate, run by his relatives, with interests in portfolio investments, gold mining, haulage, car rental and steel mining.As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
Janjaweed, or “Devils on horseback,” formed by General Dagalo, is rooted in Islamism, that uses Islam to achieve political objectives, and Pan Arabism, that places the interest of the Arab nation above anything else.Janjaweed originally carried out the violence that the pastoralists, or wandering herdsmen, of Darfur, of western Sudan, wrought against the more sedentary farmer folks. In 2013, Janjaweed transformed into RSF.A sore point is that Generals el-Burhan and Dagalo removed civilian members of the Transitional Sovereignty Council, only for General el-Burhan to inexplicably replace them with loyalists of ousted al-Bashir.The unstated, but real bone of contention between the warring generals, is the gold from the Darfur region, which suggests that the generals would rather wear gold epaulettes, rather than the traditional red epaulettes, on the neck of their starched uniforms.With roughly 90 tonnes annual production mostly from the Hassai Gold Mines, about 50 kilometres South of its Khartoum capital city, Sudan is the 10th largest producer of gold in the world.While the government-owned Sudanese Mineral Resources Company reported a haul of 18 tonnes of gold in 2012, reports indicate that more than 80 per cent balance of the gold mined was smuggled out of the country.Please follow this story carefully: In February 2023, the month that Sudan approved a military base for Russia, some Russians, who worked in the gold mines, were arrested for involvement in smuggling Sudan’s gold.RSF commander, General Dagalo, a major beneficiary of the gold trade, is said to be in support and in cahoots with the Russians.Warner Group, which trains RSF men, reportedly runs a company that is engaged in gold smuggling with RSF. Head of State General el-Burhan probably wants a piece of that action.Together, Warner Group and RSF reportedly smuggle substantial volumes of Sudan’s gold for sale in the jewellery shops of North America, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, the metropolitan economies of the world.Related NewsDubai is said to be the preferred destination for Sudanese gold in recent times, though citizens of the metropolitan economies have the highest financial capacity to purchase the jewellery made from gold.In his personal capacity, General Dagalo, a school dropout and former camel trader, owns al-Junaid, a conglomerate, run by his relatives, with interests in portfolio investments, gold mining, haulage, car rental and steel mining.As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
Janjaweed originally carried out the violence that the pastoralists, or wandering herdsmen, of Darfur, of western Sudan, wrought against the more sedentary farmer folks. In 2013, Janjaweed transformed into RSF.A sore point is that Generals el-Burhan and Dagalo removed civilian members of the Transitional Sovereignty Council, only for General el-Burhan to inexplicably replace them with loyalists of ousted al-Bashir.The unstated, but real bone of contention between the warring generals, is the gold from the Darfur region, which suggests that the generals would rather wear gold epaulettes, rather than the traditional red epaulettes, on the neck of their starched uniforms.With roughly 90 tonnes annual production mostly from the Hassai Gold Mines, about 50 kilometres South of its Khartoum capital city, Sudan is the 10th largest producer of gold in the world.While the government-owned Sudanese Mineral Resources Company reported a haul of 18 tonnes of gold in 2012, reports indicate that more than 80 per cent balance of the gold mined was smuggled out of the country.Please follow this story carefully: In February 2023, the month that Sudan approved a military base for Russia, some Russians, who worked in the gold mines, were arrested for involvement in smuggling Sudan’s gold.RSF commander, General Dagalo, a major beneficiary of the gold trade, is said to be in support and in cahoots with the Russians.Warner Group, which trains RSF men, reportedly runs a company that is engaged in gold smuggling with RSF. Head of State General el-Burhan probably wants a piece of that action.Together, Warner Group and RSF reportedly smuggle substantial volumes of Sudan’s gold for sale in the jewellery shops of North America, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, the metropolitan economies of the world.Related NewsDubai is said to be the preferred destination for Sudanese gold in recent times, though citizens of the metropolitan economies have the highest financial capacity to purchase the jewellery made from gold.In his personal capacity, General Dagalo, a school dropout and former camel trader, owns al-Junaid, a conglomerate, run by his relatives, with interests in portfolio investments, gold mining, haulage, car rental and steel mining.As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
A sore point is that Generals el-Burhan and Dagalo removed civilian members of the Transitional Sovereignty Council, only for General el-Burhan to inexplicably replace them with loyalists of ousted al-Bashir.The unstated, but real bone of contention between the warring generals, is the gold from the Darfur region, which suggests that the generals would rather wear gold epaulettes, rather than the traditional red epaulettes, on the neck of their starched uniforms.With roughly 90 tonnes annual production mostly from the Hassai Gold Mines, about 50 kilometres South of its Khartoum capital city, Sudan is the 10th largest producer of gold in the world.While the government-owned Sudanese Mineral Resources Company reported a haul of 18 tonnes of gold in 2012, reports indicate that more than 80 per cent balance of the gold mined was smuggled out of the country.Please follow this story carefully: In February 2023, the month that Sudan approved a military base for Russia, some Russians, who worked in the gold mines, were arrested for involvement in smuggling Sudan’s gold.RSF commander, General Dagalo, a major beneficiary of the gold trade, is said to be in support and in cahoots with the Russians.Warner Group, which trains RSF men, reportedly runs a company that is engaged in gold smuggling with RSF. Head of State General el-Burhan probably wants a piece of that action.Together, Warner Group and RSF reportedly smuggle substantial volumes of Sudan’s gold for sale in the jewellery shops of North America, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, the metropolitan economies of the world.Related NewsDubai is said to be the preferred destination for Sudanese gold in recent times, though citizens of the metropolitan economies have the highest financial capacity to purchase the jewellery made from gold.In his personal capacity, General Dagalo, a school dropout and former camel trader, owns al-Junaid, a conglomerate, run by his relatives, with interests in portfolio investments, gold mining, haulage, car rental and steel mining.As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
The unstated, but real bone of contention between the warring generals, is the gold from the Darfur region, which suggests that the generals would rather wear gold epaulettes, rather than the traditional red epaulettes, on the neck of their starched uniforms.With roughly 90 tonnes annual production mostly from the Hassai Gold Mines, about 50 kilometres South of its Khartoum capital city, Sudan is the 10th largest producer of gold in the world.While the government-owned Sudanese Mineral Resources Company reported a haul of 18 tonnes of gold in 2012, reports indicate that more than 80 per cent balance of the gold mined was smuggled out of the country.Please follow this story carefully: In February 2023, the month that Sudan approved a military base for Russia, some Russians, who worked in the gold mines, were arrested for involvement in smuggling Sudan’s gold.RSF commander, General Dagalo, a major beneficiary of the gold trade, is said to be in support and in cahoots with the Russians.Warner Group, which trains RSF men, reportedly runs a company that is engaged in gold smuggling with RSF. Head of State General el-Burhan probably wants a piece of that action.Together, Warner Group and RSF reportedly smuggle substantial volumes of Sudan’s gold for sale in the jewellery shops of North America, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, the metropolitan economies of the world.Related NewsDubai is said to be the preferred destination for Sudanese gold in recent times, though citizens of the metropolitan economies have the highest financial capacity to purchase the jewellery made from gold.In his personal capacity, General Dagalo, a school dropout and former camel trader, owns al-Junaid, a conglomerate, run by his relatives, with interests in portfolio investments, gold mining, haulage, car rental and steel mining.As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
With roughly 90 tonnes annual production mostly from the Hassai Gold Mines, about 50 kilometres South of its Khartoum capital city, Sudan is the 10th largest producer of gold in the world.While the government-owned Sudanese Mineral Resources Company reported a haul of 18 tonnes of gold in 2012, reports indicate that more than 80 per cent balance of the gold mined was smuggled out of the country.Please follow this story carefully: In February 2023, the month that Sudan approved a military base for Russia, some Russians, who worked in the gold mines, were arrested for involvement in smuggling Sudan’s gold.RSF commander, General Dagalo, a major beneficiary of the gold trade, is said to be in support and in cahoots with the Russians.Warner Group, which trains RSF men, reportedly runs a company that is engaged in gold smuggling with RSF. Head of State General el-Burhan probably wants a piece of that action.Together, Warner Group and RSF reportedly smuggle substantial volumes of Sudan’s gold for sale in the jewellery shops of North America, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, the metropolitan economies of the world.Related NewsDubai is said to be the preferred destination for Sudanese gold in recent times, though citizens of the metropolitan economies have the highest financial capacity to purchase the jewellery made from gold.In his personal capacity, General Dagalo, a school dropout and former camel trader, owns al-Junaid, a conglomerate, run by his relatives, with interests in portfolio investments, gold mining, haulage, car rental and steel mining.As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
While the government-owned Sudanese Mineral Resources Company reported a haul of 18 tonnes of gold in 2012, reports indicate that more than 80 per cent balance of the gold mined was smuggled out of the country.Please follow this story carefully: In February 2023, the month that Sudan approved a military base for Russia, some Russians, who worked in the gold mines, were arrested for involvement in smuggling Sudan’s gold.RSF commander, General Dagalo, a major beneficiary of the gold trade, is said to be in support and in cahoots with the Russians.Warner Group, which trains RSF men, reportedly runs a company that is engaged in gold smuggling with RSF. Head of State General el-Burhan probably wants a piece of that action.Together, Warner Group and RSF reportedly smuggle substantial volumes of Sudan’s gold for sale in the jewellery shops of North America, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, the metropolitan economies of the world.Related NewsDubai is said to be the preferred destination for Sudanese gold in recent times, though citizens of the metropolitan economies have the highest financial capacity to purchase the jewellery made from gold.In his personal capacity, General Dagalo, a school dropout and former camel trader, owns al-Junaid, a conglomerate, run by his relatives, with interests in portfolio investments, gold mining, haulage, car rental and steel mining.As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
Please follow this story carefully: In February 2023, the month that Sudan approved a military base for Russia, some Russians, who worked in the gold mines, were arrested for involvement in smuggling Sudan’s gold.RSF commander, General Dagalo, a major beneficiary of the gold trade, is said to be in support and in cahoots with the Russians.Warner Group, which trains RSF men, reportedly runs a company that is engaged in gold smuggling with RSF. Head of State General el-Burhan probably wants a piece of that action.Together, Warner Group and RSF reportedly smuggle substantial volumes of Sudan’s gold for sale in the jewellery shops of North America, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, the metropolitan economies of the world.Related NewsDubai is said to be the preferred destination for Sudanese gold in recent times, though citizens of the metropolitan economies have the highest financial capacity to purchase the jewellery made from gold.In his personal capacity, General Dagalo, a school dropout and former camel trader, owns al-Junaid, a conglomerate, run by his relatives, with interests in portfolio investments, gold mining, haulage, car rental and steel mining.As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
RSF commander, General Dagalo, a major beneficiary of the gold trade, is said to be in support and in cahoots with the Russians.Warner Group, which trains RSF men, reportedly runs a company that is engaged in gold smuggling with RSF. Head of State General el-Burhan probably wants a piece of that action.Together, Warner Group and RSF reportedly smuggle substantial volumes of Sudan’s gold for sale in the jewellery shops of North America, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, the metropolitan economies of the world.Related NewsDubai is said to be the preferred destination for Sudanese gold in recent times, though citizens of the metropolitan economies have the highest financial capacity to purchase the jewellery made from gold.In his personal capacity, General Dagalo, a school dropout and former camel trader, owns al-Junaid, a conglomerate, run by his relatives, with interests in portfolio investments, gold mining, haulage, car rental and steel mining.As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
Warner Group, which trains RSF men, reportedly runs a company that is engaged in gold smuggling with RSF. Head of State General el-Burhan probably wants a piece of that action.Together, Warner Group and RSF reportedly smuggle substantial volumes of Sudan’s gold for sale in the jewellery shops of North America, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, the metropolitan economies of the world.Related NewsDubai is said to be the preferred destination for Sudanese gold in recent times, though citizens of the metropolitan economies have the highest financial capacity to purchase the jewellery made from gold.In his personal capacity, General Dagalo, a school dropout and former camel trader, owns al-Junaid, a conglomerate, run by his relatives, with interests in portfolio investments, gold mining, haulage, car rental and steel mining.As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
Together, Warner Group and RSF reportedly smuggle substantial volumes of Sudan’s gold for sale in the jewellery shops of North America, Western Europe and Eastern Europe, the metropolitan economies of the world.Related NewsDubai is said to be the preferred destination for Sudanese gold in recent times, though citizens of the metropolitan economies have the highest financial capacity to purchase the jewellery made from gold.In his personal capacity, General Dagalo, a school dropout and former camel trader, owns al-Junaid, a conglomerate, run by his relatives, with interests in portfolio investments, gold mining, haulage, car rental and steel mining.As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
Dubai is said to be the preferred destination for Sudanese gold in recent times, though citizens of the metropolitan economies have the highest financial capacity to purchase the jewellery made from gold.In his personal capacity, General Dagalo, a school dropout and former camel trader, owns al-Junaid, a conglomerate, run by his relatives, with interests in portfolio investments, gold mining, haulage, car rental and steel mining.As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
In his personal capacity, General Dagalo, a school dropout and former camel trader, owns al-Junaid, a conglomerate, run by his relatives, with interests in portfolio investments, gold mining, haulage, car rental and steel mining.As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
As you may have deduced, the funds used to finance Dagalo’s intransigence against his principal, General el-Burhan, come from this chaebol. It also pays for his personal comfort, safety and security.But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
But in this mess were trapped some 5,500 Nigerian students, though the Federal Government activated an evacuation operation that has successfully returned a good number of them back to Nigeria, though 40 buses for the evacuation came at an unbelievable cost of $1.2m.Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
Nigeria took advantage of the 72-hour temporary ceasefire and safe corridor brokered by America for the purpose of evacuating non-Sudanese nationals. An extension was brokered, because the first one was not long enough to quickly evacuate stranded foreign nationals.Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
Some of the Nigerian students sent distress calls about being stranded in the desert, complaining that the drivers hired for the evacuation “said they’re not moving because (the agents of the Federal Government) did not give them money.”Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
Chairman of Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, admonished the public not to always “believe everything on social media,” though she agreed that “there will be challenges along the way.”She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
She however, promised, “Whatever challenges are faced now, I believe that relevant (government) agencies will resolve them.” The National Emergency Management Agency isn’t up to the task. Some Nigerians, who arrived at Egypt’s border, were not allowed into Egypt.Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
Despite the no-fly zone over Sudan claimed by Nigeria’s Foreign Minister, usually phlegmatic Geoffrey Onyeama, reports indicate that America, Britain, Germany, even Namibia, flew into Sudan to “scoop out” their stranded citizens by air!After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
After some inexplicable false starts the Federal Government finally gave clearance for Air Peace airlines that volunteered to bring stranded Nigerians home for free, to join Nigeria Air Force to bring Nigerians back home.Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
Over the past weekend and after six weeks of hostility, another seven-day ceasefire was brokered by America and Saudi Arabia. The purpose is to further negotiate peace and calm for the beleaguered Sudanese nation.For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
For weeks, Khartoum had no access to electricity, water, foodstuffs, other supplies and also could not access money in the banks, most of which have been shut down and cannot attend to cash-strapped customers.While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
While the warring generals and do-gooders, like America and Russia, try to resolve Sudan’s internal problems, Nigeria may have to review its stated objective that Africa is the centrepiece of its foreign policy.Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
Some questions: Why did Egypt initially refuse entry to Nigerians? Why would six African neighbours of Sudan, including Chad, with a common border with Nigeria, refuse safe passage to Nigerians stranded in Sudan? Maybe Nigeria no longer commands the respect it used to have across Africa.Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
Now that the petro-dollar purse of royalty that funded Nigeria’s profligate fight against South Africa’s apartheid regime, supported the liberation movements across Southern Africa and the peace-keeping initiatives in West Africa, is no more, Nigeria must stop acting like the big man it no longer is.Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
Anyway, the war in Sudan is one too many for Africa and it must be contained before it compounds the hardship of the poor citizens. Saudi Arabia is trying to help settle the quarrelling generals.As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com
As the two wrong-headed elephant generals fight, the masses at the grassroots suffer.Twitter@lekansote1, lekansote.com

Kindly share this story:
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.
Contact:[email protected]
Stay informed and ahead of the curve! Follow The Punch Newspaper on WhatsApp for real-time updates, breaking news, and exclusive content. Don't miss a headline – join now!
punchng.com © 1971- 2024 Punch Nigeria Limited

Title: What next for Sudan’s most notorious rebel leader, known as Hemedti?
TryAI-powered search
The journeyof Muhammad Hamdan Dagalo, better known as Hemedti, from the deserts of remotest Darfur to a gilded mansion on the banks of the Nile in Khartoum,Sudan’sembattled capital, is hard to fathom. Once a lowly camel rustler and small-time businessman, he started out with neither formal education nor military training. Yet by the late 2000s he was the mostpowerful militia commanderin all of Darfur, the country’s vast western region, holding a key to Sudan’s future. His infamous force of fellow camel-herding Arabs, known as the Janjaweed, was accused of committing genocide against the region’s African tribes on behalf of the country’s long-serving dictator, General Omar al-Bashir. As a veteran Sudan-watching diplomat puts it, Hemedti was like “a Mafia don who started on a street corner and then took over the city”.
This article appeared in the Middle East & Africa section of the print edition under the headline “The worst of a bad lot”
Discover stories from this section and more in the list of contents
They are gaining land—and sway over the army, police and politics
They both attempt escalating attacks that fall short of all-out war
As a result, Iran’s new president is off to a disappointing start
Israelis and Lebanese are finding each other on dating apps, whether they want to or not
Green deals represent almost half of all venture-capital activity in the continent
Demographics and the weakness of traditional media explain the rise of video news
Published since September 1843 to take part in“a severe contest between intelligence, which presses forward, and an unworthy, timid ignorance obstructing our progress.”
To enhance your experience and ensure our website runs smoothly, we use
        cookies and similar technologies.
Copyright © The Economist Newspaper Limited2024. All rights reserved.