Title: UN Security Council condemns ADF attacks in DRC - 24Tanzania.com
The United Nations Security Council has condemned the renewed attacks by the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF-NALU) which resulted in 66,000 Congolese refugees and caused casualties among both the FARDC and MONUSCO forces.The attacks in question were carried out on July 11, 2013 against the FARDC in Kamango and July 14, 2013 against MONUSCO forces along the Muba-Kamango axis.The message was contained in a Presidential Statement following a High-Level (Ministerial) debate on July 25, 2013 in New York under the theme, “The situation in the Great Lakes Region”.The debate was presided over by United States Secretary of State John Kerry, where Uganda was represented by Sam K. Kutesa, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Crispus Kiyonga, Minister of Defence accompanied by Uganda’s Permanent Representative to New York, Richard Nduhuura.During his intervention in the dabate, Kutesa deplored and condemned the ADF attacks which have increased both in intensity and frequency, and called on the Security Council to do likewise.He also regretted the renewed fighting between the DRC Government and the M23, while apprising the Council of the progress in the Kampala Talks. He urged Council to call on the parties to urgently resume and conclude the Kampala Talks, as a political solution would be the best way to resolve their differences. He expressed the view that the success of the Talks will make a positive contribution to the National Consultations due to start in DRC.After the Security Council Debate, Kutesa held a meeting with the United Nations Secretary-General and discussed issues related to DRC, Somalia and the Post 2015-Development agenda and sustainable Development Goals.Kutesa and the secretary-General agreed to enhance their engagement on these matter, in particular the Post-2015 Development agenda, which is coming at a time when the Millennium Development Goals are due to end in 2015.Agencies

The attacks in question were carried out on July 11, 2013 against the FARDC in Kamango and July 14, 2013 against MONUSCO forces along the Muba-Kamango axis.
The message was contained in a Presidential Statement following a High-Level (Ministerial) debate on July 25, 2013 in New York under the theme, “The situation in the Great Lakes Region”.
The debate was presided over by United States Secretary of State John Kerry, where Uganda was represented by Sam K. Kutesa, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Crispus Kiyonga, Minister of Defence accompanied by Uganda’s Permanent Representative to New York, Richard Nduhuura.
During his intervention in the dabate, Kutesa deplored and condemned the ADF attacks which have increased both in intensity and frequency, and called on the Security Council to do likewise.
He also regretted the renewed fighting between the DRC Government and the M23, while apprising the Council of the progress in the Kampala Talks. He urged Council to call on the parties to urgently resume and conclude the Kampala Talks, as a political solution would be the best way to resolve their differences. He expressed the view that the success of the Talks will make a positive contribution to the National Consultations due to start in DRC.
After the Security Council Debate, Kutesa held a meeting with the United Nations Secretary-General and discussed issues related to DRC, Somalia and the Post 2015-Development agenda and sustainable Development Goals.
Kutesa and the secretary-General agreed to enhance their engagement on these matter, in particular the Post-2015 Development agenda, which is coming at a time when the Millennium Development Goals are due to end in 2015.
Agencies
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*

Name
Email
Website


This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.Learn how your comment data is processed.

Title: CIRGL : le secrétaire exécutif et l’envoyé spécial de l’ONU reçus à Brazzaville | adiac-congo.com : toute l'actualité du Bassin du Congo
S’abonner
Voir les offres
Newsletter
Contact




27-08-2024 19:25
Face à la recrudescence des actes attentatoires à l’intégrité physique d’autrui liés au  fléau « bébés noirs », l’appareil judiciaire est interpellé. Le Garde des Sceaux a, en effet, instruit il y a quelques jours les chefs des juridictions pour l'instauration d'une gouvernance judiciaire capable d’apporter des  solutions à ces violences mais aussi à un autre phénomène non moins préoccupant du détournement des deniers publics par des tiers.
Sans précipitation aucune, la règle applicable est de dire le droit vite et bien, se sont convenus le Garde des Sceaux et les chefs de juridictions. La pratique actuelle qui consiste à attendre la tenue de la session criminelle dans un intervalle de deux ou trois ans pour juger les auteurs, coauteurs, complices de crimes ou d'autres infractions connexes mérite d'être corrigée. Les cours et tribunaux devraient désormais s’organiser à statuer dans le temps voisin de la commission des crimes constitués.
En agissant ainsi la justice contribuera à endiguer la montée des différentes formes de criminalité par le caractère dissuasif des peines prononcées, en veillant à ce qu'elles soient purgées dans toute la rigueur comme le prévoit la loi.
Nul doute que par ce choix de la fermeté, elle procurera un peu de quiétude à la population victime des actes des bandits de grand chemin.  Une population en quête d'une justice irréprochable qui  attend, par delà les orientations ministérielles,  de voir se concrétiser la volonté des pouvoirs publics d’en finir avec les violences urbaines et les crimes économiques.






Les Dépêches de Brazzaville
Les plus récents
Les plus lus
Abonnement Flux RSS
Abonnement média
Offre spéciale Entreprises
Quotidien et supplément du 6eme jour livrés, site web, toute l'information sur vos secteur d'activité et votre région.A Brazzaville ou Pointe-Noire, à partir de 10 abonnements.
Abonnez-vous
Current Size:100%
Le chef de l’Etat congolais, Denis Sassou N’Guesso, président en exercice de la Conférence internationale sur la région des Grands Lacs (CIRGL), s’est entretenu, le 20 juillet, avec l’envoyé spécial des Nations unies, Saïd Djinnit, et le secrétaire exécutif de la CIRGL, Zachary Muburi-Muita.
Venu participer à une rencontre de la CIRGL dans la capitale congolaise, l’envoyé spécial des Nations unies a fait le point au président Denis Sassou N’Guesso de l’évolution du processus électoral en République démocratique du Congo (RDC) et de la situation sécuritaire en République centrafricaine (RCA).
«Nous avons échangé sur la situation en RCA qui demeure toujours inquiétante», a déclaré Saïd Djinnit, à l’issue de l’audience.
Concernant la RDC, il a expliqué: «Nous avons évoqué la question du rapatriement des forces M23 et FDLR, tout en émettant le souhait de voir le pays suivre la feuille de route des accords de la Saint-Sylvestre. Nous continuons à encourager les dirigeants à aller vers les élections prévues pour le 23 décembre 2018».
L’envoyé spécial de l’ONU pour la région des Grands lacs a, en outre, affiché son optimisme sur la tenue des élections en RDC au regard du dernier discours du président Joseph Kabila sur l’état de la nation.
Le secrétaire exécutif de la CIRGL a, pour sa part, souligné l’amélioration de la situation sécuritaire dans la région.
«Là où il y a des troubles, les parties belligérantes affichent, désormais, la volonté et l'engagement de trouver des solutions aux problèmes qui se posent. Mais il y a encore un souci lié à l'insécurité toujours visible en RCA», a-t-il dit.
Zachary Muburi-Muita a encouragé les dirigeants de la RDC à poursuivre le processus électoral tout en respectant le calendrier en vue d’une issue favorable.
Par ailleurs, le président Denis Sassou N’Guesso a échangé avec le ministre angolais des Relations extérieures, Manuel Domingos Augusto, qui était porteur d’un message de son homologue João Manuel Lourenço.
Lire le quotidien

Title: Nation - Breaking News, Kenya, Africa, Politics, Business, Sports | HOME | Nation
Court also bans him from public office for a decade
Raila also promised to pursue a continental air control system to reduce bureaucratic hurdles.
Kuppet says it prefers talks over protracted court battles.
New officials will take over once the terms of the current office holders expire.
DPP urges the court to impose a maximum sentence on the politician.
Prof Mary Walingo in legal trouble after the university council accuses her of embezzlement.
However, he did not give a timeline on when this will happen.
Sponsored by HF Markets
Sponsored by Stand Up Young Africa (SUYA) Foundation
Sponsored by Tanzania Ports Authority
Sponsored by Open University of Kenya
The economic case of family planning and why it matters not only to individuals and families, but for the nation at large.
Article 57 of the Kenyan Constitution commands the State and the family to offer older persons in the society reasonable care and assistance. As per the Constitution older women and men are those...
From Frequently Asked Questions to school going children must register before reporting. Join the conversation with Health Lawyer, Margaret Nyambura , Dr Simon Kigondu and host, Dr Diana Wangari
Raila also promised to pursue a continental air control system to reduce bureaucratic hurdles.
Events from far and wide seemed to have converged to bring Raila Odinga good fortune.
Aviation Workers Union demands transparency as government scrambles to avert aviation crisis
Frequent and erratic revision of regulations creates shaky ground for the construction industry.
You’ll remember from last week that I hadn’t paid my rent for August three and a half weeks later, and I had only been given by the landlady till end-of-week to do so.
Prezzo, a pioneer in the Kenyan music scene, has significantly influenced the industry over the years.
A walk to a gym in Nairobi on any day, you can rest assured to find almost all women rocking those sports bras.
Kenyan champions go down fighting to CBE.
Nation Media Group © 2024

Title: Eight killed in rebel attack on DR Congo army base | The National
Africa
17 July, 2018
Eight people were killed on Monday during an attack attributed to Ugandan Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) rebels in the restive eastern Democratic Republic of Congo, according to sources.
The attack targeted an army position in Kabasewa, 60 kilometres east of Beni in North Kivu province.
"We deplore the death of three soldiers, while three others are wounded," said Captain Mak Hazukay, spokesman for the army in the region, adding that two rebels were also killed.
He said the attackers "looted the health centre pharmacy", took cattle, and made the villagers carry their stolen goods.
Noella Muliwavyo, a civil society leader in Beni, said that "three civilians were also killed, including a nurse" during the raid on the pharmacy, bringing the death toll to eight.
"We are wondering how the rebels were able to cross several kilometres to burn an army camp without the army seeing them. It's truly regrettable," Muliwavyo said.
____________
Read more
Glencore’s Africa worsen with US subpoena
Congo says 3 new Ebola cases confirmed in city of a million people
____________
The ADF is a militia created by Muslim rebels to oppose Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni which also operates in the DRC.
They have been in the east of the country since 1995 and are accused of being responsible for a series of massacres of several hundred civilians since 2014 by the Congolese authorities and the UN Mission in the DRC (MONUSCO).
However, in 2015 the New York University Study Group on Congo said it was not just the ADF behind the killings and that other armed elements, including members of the Congolese army, were responsible.
The ADF is accused of killing 15 Tanzanian peacekeepers in the Beni region in December 2017.
North Kivu, one of the most populated areas of the DRC, is home to a number of armed groups that kill or abduct civilians.
President Joseph Kabila replaced the head of the army over the weekend in a wave of appointments in the run-up to elections.
Company name:FassetStarted:2019Founders:Mohammad Raafi Hossain, Daniel AhmedBased:DubaiSector:FinTechInitial investment:$2.45 millionCurrent number of staff:86Investment stage:Pre-series BInvestors:Investcorp, Liberty City Ventures, Fatima Gobi Ventures, Primal Capital, Wealthwell Ventures, FHS Capital, VN2 Capital, local family offices
Author: S Frederick StarrPublisher: Oxford University PressPages: 290Available: January 24
Graphene is extracted from graphite and is made up of pure carbon.
It is 200 times more resistant than steel and five times lighter than aluminum.
It conducts electricity better than any other material at room temperature.
It is thought that graphene could boost the useful life of batteries by 10 per cent.
Graphene can also detect cancer cells in the early stages of the disease.
The material was first discovered when Andre Geim and Konstantin Novoselov were 'playing' with graphite at the University of Manchester in 2004.
Starring:Bruce Willis, Toni Collette, Hayley Joel Osment
Director:M. Night Shyamalan
Rating:5/5
Name:FlowardBased:Riyadh, Saudi ArabiaFounders:Abdulaziz Al Loughani and Mohamed Al ArifiSector:E-commerceTotal funding:About $200 millionInvestors:Aljazira Capital, Rainwater Partners, STV and Impact46Number of employees:1,200
Director:Tamer Ruggli
Starring:Nadine Labaki, Fanny Ardant
Rating:3.5/5
Nasser bin Nasser:Is US-China conflict in West Asia inevitable?
Sholto Byrnes:Time for an uninhibited China to lead Asia
Damien McElroy:BRI has changed the rules of the game
Engine:3.6-litre V6
Transmission:eight-speed automatic
Power:285bhp
Torque:353Nm
Price:TBA
On sale:Q2, 2020
1987
1954
1921
1888
Company name:AlmouneerStarted:2017Founders:Dr Noha Khater and Rania KadryBased:EgyptNumber of staff:120Investment:Bootstrapped, with support from Insead and Egyptian government, seed round of$3.6 million led by Global Ventures
Name:HyveGeoStarted:2023Founders:Abdulaziz bin Redha, Dr Samsurin Welch, Eva Morales and Dr Harjit SinghBased:Cambridge and DubaiNumber of employees:8Industry:Sustainability & EnvironmentFunding:$200,000 plus undisclosed grantInvestors:Venture capital and government
Starring:Ajay Devgn, Tabu, Shantanu Maheshwari, Jimmy Shergill, Saiee Manjrekar
Director:Neeraj Pandey
Rating:2.5/5
Creator:Ramez Galal
Starring:Ramez Galal
Streaming on:MBC Shahid
Rating:2.5/5
Name:SmartCrowdStarted:2018Founder:Siddiq Farid and Musfique AhmedBased:DubaiSector:FinTech / PropTechInitial investment:$650,000Current number of staff:35Investment stage:Series AInvestors:Various institutional investors and notable angel investors (500 MENA, Shurooq, Mada, Seedstar, Tricap)
How a groundbreaking soil-less farming inititiave is empowering rural communities across Jordan
Essay:Venice's floods should serve as a wake-up call for the world
UAE ready for innovation in area of water management – this is not a pipe dream
Saudi artist Manal AlDowayan unveils new piece of land art addressing water scarcity in Al Ula
Tobacco giants, under attack from governments and forced to print gruesome warnings on their products, pour millions into 'healthier' e-cigarette products
Install an air filter in your home.
Close your windows and turn on the AC.
Shower or bath after being outside.
Wear a face mask.
Stay indoors when conditions are particularly poor.
If driving, turn your engine off when stationary.
Starring:Cate Blanchett, Kevin Hart, Jamie Lee Curtis
Director:Eli Roth
Rating:0/5
In 45 years, I've never seen Americans shift this much on Palestine
Company name:RevibeStarted:2022Founders:Hamza Iraqui and Abdessamad Ben ZakourBased:UAEIndustry:Refurbished electronicsFunds raised so far:$10mInvestors:Flat6Labs, Resonance and various others
1.Fasting
2.Prayer
3.Hajj
4. Shahada
5. Zakat
Director: Ali Kalthami
Starring: Mohammed Dokhei, Sarah Taibah, Hajar Alshammari
Rating: 4/5

Dubai headteacher describes challenge of running a school when the building isn't ready
From desert gardens to mock banks, Dubai schools get creative to attract more pupils
Dubai's newest schools aim for every child to be a coder
Cory Sandhagen v Umar NurmagomedovNick Diaz v Vicente LuqueMichael Chiesa v Tony FergusonDeiveson Figueiredo v Marlon VeraMackenzie Dern v Loopy Godinez
Tickets for the August 3 Fight Night, held in partnership with the Department of Culture and Tourism Abu Dhabi, went on sale earlier this month, through www.etihadarena.ae and www.ticketmaster.ae.
Yes, Marmite hummus is a thing: UK supermarket launches yeast-flavoured dip
Non-oil trade between the UAE and Japan grew by 34 per cent over the past two years, according to data from the Federal Competitiveness and Statistics Centre.
In 10 years, it has reached a total of Dh524.4 billion.
Cars topped the list of the top five commodities re-exported to Japan in 2022, with a value of Dh1.3 billion.
Jewellery and ornaments amounted to Dh150 million while precious metal scraps amounted to Dh105 million.
Raw aluminium was ranked first among the top five commodities exported to Japan.
Top of the list of commodities imported from Japan in 2022 was cars, with a value of Dh20.08 billion.
Selma Abdelhamid, the group's moderator, offers her guide to guide the cost of having a young family:
• Buy second hand stuff
They grow so fast. Don't get a second hand car seat though, unless you 100 per cent know it's not expired and hasn't been in an accident.
• Get a health card and vaccinate your child for free at government health centres
Ms Ma says she discovered this after spending thousands on vaccinations at private clinics.
• Join mum and baby coffee mornings provided by clinics, babysitting companies or nurseries.
Before joining baby classes ask for a free trial session. This way you will know if it's for you or not. You'll be surprised how great some classes are and how bad others are.
• Once baby is ready for solids, cook at home
Take the food with you in reusable pouches or jars. You'll save a fortune and you'll know exactly what you're feeding your child.

Title: CIRGL : le secrétaire exécutif et l’envoyé spécial de l’ONU reçus à Brazzaville | adiac-congo.com : toute l'actualité du Bassin du Congo
S’abonner
Voir les offres
Newsletter
Contact




27-08-2024 19:25
Face à la recrudescence des actes attentatoires à l’intégrité physique d’autrui liés au  fléau « bébés noirs », l’appareil judiciaire est interpellé. Le Garde des Sceaux a, en effet, instruit il y a quelques jours les chefs des juridictions pour l'instauration d'une gouvernance judiciaire capable d’apporter des  solutions à ces violences mais aussi à un autre phénomène non moins préoccupant du détournement des deniers publics par des tiers.
Sans précipitation aucune, la règle applicable est de dire le droit vite et bien, se sont convenus le Garde des Sceaux et les chefs de juridictions. La pratique actuelle qui consiste à attendre la tenue de la session criminelle dans un intervalle de deux ou trois ans pour juger les auteurs, coauteurs, complices de crimes ou d'autres infractions connexes mérite d'être corrigée. Les cours et tribunaux devraient désormais s’organiser à statuer dans le temps voisin de la commission des crimes constitués.
En agissant ainsi la justice contribuera à endiguer la montée des différentes formes de criminalité par le caractère dissuasif des peines prononcées, en veillant à ce qu'elles soient purgées dans toute la rigueur comme le prévoit la loi.
Nul doute que par ce choix de la fermeté, elle procurera un peu de quiétude à la population victime des actes des bandits de grand chemin.  Une population en quête d'une justice irréprochable qui  attend, par delà les orientations ministérielles,  de voir se concrétiser la volonté des pouvoirs publics d’en finir avec les violences urbaines et les crimes économiques.






Les Dépêches de Brazzaville
Les plus récents
Les plus lus
Abonnement Flux RSS
Abonnement média
Offre spéciale Entreprises
Quotidien et supplément du 6eme jour livrés, site web, toute l'information sur vos secteur d'activité et votre région.A Brazzaville ou Pointe-Noire, à partir de 10 abonnements.
Abonnez-vous
Current Size:100%
Le chef de l’Etat congolais, Denis Sassou N’Guesso, président en exercice de la Conférence internationale sur la région des Grands Lacs (CIRGL), s’est entretenu, le 20 juillet, avec l’envoyé spécial des Nations unies, Saïd Djinnit, et le secrétaire exécutif de la CIRGL, Zachary Muburi-Muita.
Venu participer à une rencontre de la CIRGL dans la capitale congolaise, l’envoyé spécial des Nations unies a fait le point au président Denis Sassou N’Guesso de l’évolution du processus électoral en République démocratique du Congo (RDC) et de la situation sécuritaire en République centrafricaine (RCA).
«Nous avons échangé sur la situation en RCA qui demeure toujours inquiétante», a déclaré Saïd Djinnit, à l’issue de l’audience.
Concernant la RDC, il a expliqué: «Nous avons évoqué la question du rapatriement des forces M23 et FDLR, tout en émettant le souhait de voir le pays suivre la feuille de route des accords de la Saint-Sylvestre. Nous continuons à encourager les dirigeants à aller vers les élections prévues pour le 23 décembre 2018».
L’envoyé spécial de l’ONU pour la région des Grands lacs a, en outre, affiché son optimisme sur la tenue des élections en RDC au regard du dernier discours du président Joseph Kabila sur l’état de la nation.
Le secrétaire exécutif de la CIRGL a, pour sa part, souligné l’amélioration de la situation sécuritaire dans la région.
«Là où il y a des troubles, les parties belligérantes affichent, désormais, la volonté et l'engagement de trouver des solutions aux problèmes qui se posent. Mais il y a encore un souci lié à l'insécurité toujours visible en RCA», a-t-il dit.
Zachary Muburi-Muita a encouragé les dirigeants de la RDC à poursuivre le processus électoral tout en respectant le calendrier en vue d’une issue favorable.
Par ailleurs, le président Denis Sassou N’Guesso a échangé avec le ministre angolais des Relations extérieures, Manuel Domingos Augusto, qui était porteur d’un message de son homologue João Manuel Lourenço.
Lire le quotidien

Title: Communiqué of the fifth Ministerial Meeting of the Guarantors of the Peace, Security and Cooperation (PSC) Framework for the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Region - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWeb
DR Congo+ 3 more
The representatives of the Guarantors of the Peace, Security and Cooperation (PSC) Framework for the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and the region held their fifth ministerial meeting in Brazzaville, Republic of the Congo, on 20 July 2018. The meeting was chaired by H.E. Jean-Claude Gakosso, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Cooperation and Congolese abroad, representing the Chair of the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR) and Chair of the Regional Oversight Mechanism of the PSC Framework. It was attended by H.E. Manuel Augusto, Minister of External Relations of the Republic of Angola, representing the Chair of the Organ for Politics, Defense and Security of the Southern African Development Community (SADC); Amb. Abel Mxolisi Shilubane, representing H.E. Lindiwe Sisulu, Minister for International Relations and Cooperation of South Africa on behalf of the presidency of SADC; Mr. Saïd Djinnit, the United Nations Special Envoy for the Great Lakes Region; Amb. Basile Ikouebe, the African Union Special Representative of the Chairperson of the African Union Commission for the Great Lakes Region, and Amb. Zachary Muburi-Muita, ICGLR Executive Secretary.
Participants reviewed developments in the region since the 8th meeting of the Regional Oversight Mechanism of the PSC Framework, held in Brazzaville on 19 October 2017.
In regard to negative forces, the participants welcomed the ongoing consultations in the context of the joint United Nations-SADC task force aimed at strengthening MONUSCO Force Intervention Brigade (FIB), as called for by the 8th meeting of the Regional Oversight Mechanism. They encouraged continued and enhanced cooperation between the Forces Armées de la République démocratique du Congo (FARDC) and MONUSCO-FIB to maximize military pressure on the negative forces towards their full neutralisation.
They further welcomed the launch of the Follow up Mechanism for the repatriation of former combatants, on 24 April in Goma, DRC. They requested the Governments of the DRC, Uganda, and Rwanda to continue to cooperate within the framework of the Follow up Mechanism to implement the plans to conclude the repatriation of former FDLR and ex-M23 combatants and their dependents, despite the challenges encountered so far.
Regarding the political and electoral processes in the DRC and Burundi, participants welcomed the progress made in the preparation of the elections in the DRC. They encouraged the Government of the DRC and all concerned national stakeholders to continue with their efforts to create conducive conditions for credible and peaceful elections in respect of the 31 December 2016 agreement.
They reiterated their support to the East African Community (EAC)-led mediation and facilitation efforts in Burundi and urged the Burundian parties to engage in dialogue under the auspices of the EAC with the continued support of the African Union and the United Nations, bearing in mind the importance of the legacy of the Arusha peace accord.
Reviewing the situation in South Sudan, participants welcomed the ongoing efforts of the leaders of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD). They also welcomed the signing, on 27 June 2018, of the Khartoum Declaration of Agreement between the parties of the conflict in South Sudan and of the security arrangements agreement on 6 July. They took note with concern of continuing violations to the cessation of hostilities and called on all stakeholders to fully abide by their commitments under the signed agreements. They called on the parties to conclude the negotiations on the power sharing arrangements without further delay. They encouraged the IGAD member states to continue in their efforts and cooperation to achieve an end to the crisis in South Sudan.
Regarding the situation in the Central African Republic, they noted with concern continued attacks by armed groups and slow progress in the dialogue. They called on the armed groups to lay down their arms and engage in good faith in the dialogue, and encouraged the panel of the African Initiative to redouble its efforts in support of peace and stability in the country.
Participants noted the increasing number of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), refugees, and asylum seekers as a consequence of violence and insecurity in the region. They acknowledged that this situation, in addition to generating tensions within the displaced populations and with host communities, contributes to mistrust among the countries in the region. They stressed the importance of dealing with cases related to war crimes, crimes against humanity, and crimes related to the illegal exploitation and trade of natural resources.
Participants took note of the conclusions of the seminar held in Addis Ababa on 26-27 February 2018 on the occasion of the fifth anniversary of the PSC Framework. They agreed on the need to further strengthen the bounds of cooperation and friendship especially between the core countries of the region to accelerate the implementation of the PSC Framework. They encouraged regular exchanges at the leadership level to address existing tensions, reiterated the importance of collective responsibility, and proposed to consider any other relevant initiative to further strengthen regional cooperation.
Finally, the participants were briefed on the ongoing consultations for the convening of the 9th Regional Oversight Mechanism, in Kampala (Uganda) on 8 October 2018.
DONE IN BRAZZAVILLE, REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
20 JULY 2018
DR Congo+ 1 more
DR Congo+ 3 more
South Sudan+ 3 more
DR Congo+ 3 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Burundi - ARIB.INFO Website - RDC : Les Maï-Maï appuyés des combattants burundais sèment la terreur







Pyramide "Source du Nil"


Les chutes de Karera


La "Faille des Allemands"


Pierre 'Stanley-Livingstone
Deutsche Welle,05.07.2018
Plusieurs ménages ont été encore touchés par trois jours d'affrontements opposant les factions rebelles congolaises des Maï-Maï aux rebelles Banyanmulengue dans le Sud Kivu.
Au moins 20 morts, plus de 400 ménages touchés et des milliers de personnes déplacées dans la ville d'Uvira dans le territoire de la province du Sud-Kivu en République démocratique du Congo : c'est le triste bilan de trois jours d'affrontements qui ont opposé les factions armées congolaises des Maï-Maï appuyés par des combattants burundais comme le Red Tabara et le Forebu aux autres groupes rebelles de Banyanmulengue.
Selon le rapport mensuel du "baromètre de sécurité" du Kivu, depuis mars, au total "56 meurtres, 126 enlèvements et 52 accrochages entre belligérants" ont été signalés dans les deux Kivu, en proie à la guerre et à l'activité des groupes armés.
Plusieurs groupes armés étrangers opèrent en RDC dont les plus connus sont : les forces démocratiques alliées (ADF), les forces démocratiques de libération du Rwanda (FDLR), l’armée de résistance du Seigneur (LRA) et les forces nationales de libération du Burundi (FNL) qui sévissent en RDC depuis les années 90.
Éloge Willy Kaneza de SOS Media Burundi nous explique les motifs de ces affrontements.
Ecoutez l’interview d'Éloge Willy Kaneza sur Deutsche Welle.



Place de l'Indépendance


Monument de l'Unité

Mausolée de Rwagasore

Présidence

Assemblée nationale

Sénat
parking aéroport pas cher

Title: Burundi - ARIB.INFO Website - RDC : Les Maï-Maï appuyés des combattants burundais sèment la terreur







Pyramide "Source du Nil"


Les chutes de Karera


La "Faille des Allemands"


Pierre 'Stanley-Livingstone
Deutsche Welle,05.07.2018
Plusieurs ménages ont été encore touchés par trois jours d'affrontements opposant les factions rebelles congolaises des Maï-Maï aux rebelles Banyanmulengue dans le Sud Kivu.
Au moins 20 morts, plus de 400 ménages touchés et des milliers de personnes déplacées dans la ville d'Uvira dans le territoire de la province du Sud-Kivu en République démocratique du Congo : c'est le triste bilan de trois jours d'affrontements qui ont opposé les factions armées congolaises des Maï-Maï appuyés par des combattants burundais comme le Red Tabara et le Forebu aux autres groupes rebelles de Banyanmulengue.
Selon le rapport mensuel du "baromètre de sécurité" du Kivu, depuis mars, au total "56 meurtres, 126 enlèvements et 52 accrochages entre belligérants" ont été signalés dans les deux Kivu, en proie à la guerre et à l'activité des groupes armés.
Plusieurs groupes armés étrangers opèrent en RDC dont les plus connus sont : les forces démocratiques alliées (ADF), les forces démocratiques de libération du Rwanda (FDLR), l’armée de résistance du Seigneur (LRA) et les forces nationales de libération du Burundi (FNL) qui sévissent en RDC depuis les années 90.
Éloge Willy Kaneza de SOS Media Burundi nous explique les motifs de ces affrontements.
Ecoutez l’interview d'Éloge Willy Kaneza sur Deutsche Welle.



Place de l'Indépendance


Monument de l'Unité

Mausolée de Rwagasore

Présidence

Assemblée nationale

Sénat
parking aéroport pas cher

Title: Valencia valora levantar los cierres perimetrales en las ciudades los fines de semana a partir de marzo
MADRID, 18 (SERVIMEDIA)La Federación de Asociaciones de Personas con Discapacidad Física y Orgánica de la Comunidad de Madrid, Famma-Cocemfe Madrid, ha rubricado este lunes un convenio con la Consejería de Asuntos Sociales de la Comunidad de Madrid que "pretende regular la correcta evaluación y acreditación de competencias de aquellas personas que presten atención sociosanitaria a dependientes en instituciones sociales o en domicilios".El citado acuerdo tiene como objeto establecer pautas de colaboración entre la Consejería de Asuntos Sociales y la Federación para regular el “procedimiento de evaluación y acreditación de las competencias profesionales adquiridas por personas a través de la experiencia laboral o de vías no formales de formación”, regulado en el Real Decreto 1224/2009, de 17 de julio, en todo lo referente a las cualificaciones de profesionales de atención sociosanitaria a personas dependientes.Este convenio pretende, además, según informa Famma, "impulsar una acreditación homogénea, el fomento de unos estándares que garanticen que la atención sociosanitaria que se brinda a las personas dependientes sea óptima, garantizando para ello unos mínimos de calidad exigibles".Para el reconocimiento de las competencias profesionales se habilitará un procedimiento a través de una convocatoria única dirigida a las personas que prestan este tipo de atención en domicilios o instituciones sociales, tanto si se encuentran en activo como en situación de suspensión de la relación laboral con derecho a reserva del puesto de trabajo.Para la realización de este procedimiento, la Dirección General de Coordinación de la Dependencia de la Comunidad pondrá en marcha un servicio de información y orientación en relación a las fases del mismo, su naturaleza, así como sobre derechos y obligaciones, y sobre la acreditación oficial y sus efectos.El proceso para la obtención de esta acreditación de competencias profesionales constará de las siguientes fases: asesoramiento, evaluación, acreditación y registro de la competencia.Una comisión de seguimiento del convenio será la encargada de coordinar y supervisar las actuaciones que se llevarán a cabo en el convenio, con el fin de que la Administración y Famma, junto a otras entidades, cooperen conjuntamente para la promover la acreditación que se persigue.
MADRID, 18 (SERVIMEDIA)
La Federación de Asociaciones de Personas con Discapacidad Física y Orgánica de la Comunidad de Madrid, Famma-Cocemfe Madrid, ha rubricado este lunes un convenio con la Consejería de Asuntos Sociales de la Comunidad de Madrid que "pretende regular la correcta evaluación y acreditación de competencias de aquellas personas que presten atención sociosanitaria a dependientes en instituciones sociales o en domicilios".
El citado acuerdo tiene como objeto establecer pautas de colaboración entre la Consejería de Asuntos Sociales y la Federación para regular el “procedimiento de evaluación y acreditación de las competencias profesionales adquiridas por personas a través de la experiencia laboral o de vías no formales de formación”, regulado en el Real Decreto 1224/2009, de 17 de julio, en todo lo referente a las cualificaciones de profesionales de atención sociosanitaria a personas dependientes.
Este convenio pretende, además, según informa Famma, "impulsar una acreditación homogénea, el fomento de unos estándares que garanticen que la atención sociosanitaria que se brinda a las personas dependientes sea óptima, garantizando para ello unos mínimos de calidad exigibles".
Para el reconocimiento de las competencias profesionales se habilitará un procedimiento a través de una convocatoria única dirigida a las personas que prestan este tipo de atención en domicilios o instituciones sociales, tanto si se encuentran en activo como en situación de suspensión de la relación laboral con derecho a reserva del puesto de trabajo.
Para la realización de este procedimiento, la Dirección General de Coordinación de la Dependencia de la Comunidad pondrá en marcha un servicio de información y orientación en relación a las fases del mismo, su naturaleza, así como sobre derechos y obligaciones, y sobre la acreditación oficial y sus efectos.
El proceso para la obtención de esta acreditación de competencias profesionales constará de las siguientes fases: asesoramiento, evaluación, acreditación y registro de la competencia.
Una comisión de seguimiento del convenio será la encargada de coordinar y supervisar las actuaciones que se llevarán a cabo en el convenio, con el fin de que la Administración y Famma, junto a otras entidades, cooperen conjuntamente para la promover la acreditación que se persigue.

MADRID, 18 (SERVIMEDIA)
La Federación de Asociaciones de Personas con Discapacidad Física y Orgánica de la Comunidad de Madrid, Famma-Cocemfe Madrid, ha rubricado este lunes un convenio con la Consejería de Asuntos Sociales de la Comunidad de Madrid que "pretende regular la correcta evaluación y acreditación de competencias de aquellas personas que presten atención sociosanitaria a dependientes en instituciones sociales o en domicilios".
El citado acuerdo tiene como objeto establecer pautas de colaboración entre la Consejería de Asuntos Sociales y la Federación para regular el “procedimiento de evaluación y acreditación de las competencias profesionales adquiridas por personas a través de la experiencia laboral o de vías no formales de formación”, regulado en el Real Decreto 1224/2009, de 17 de julio, en todo lo referente a las cualificaciones de profesionales de atención sociosanitaria a personas dependientes.
Este convenio pretende, además, según informa Famma, "impulsar una acreditación homogénea, el fomento de unos estándares que garanticen que la atención sociosanitaria que se brinda a las personas dependientes sea óptima, garantizando para ello unos mínimos de calidad exigibles".
Para el reconocimiento de las competencias profesionales se habilitará un procedimiento a través de una convocatoria única dirigida a las personas que prestan este tipo de atención en domicilios o instituciones sociales, tanto si se encuentran en activo como en situación de suspensión de la relación laboral con derecho a reserva del puesto de trabajo.
Para la realización de este procedimiento, la Dirección General de Coordinación de la Dependencia de la Comunidad pondrá en marcha un servicio de información y orientación en relación a las fases del mismo, su naturaleza, así como sobre derechos y obligaciones, y sobre la acreditación oficial y sus efectos.
El proceso para la obtención de esta acreditación de competencias profesionales constará de las siguientes fases: asesoramiento, evaluación, acreditación y registro de la competencia.
Una comisión de seguimiento del convenio será la encargada de coordinar y supervisar las actuaciones que se llevarán a cabo en el convenio, con el fin de que la Administración y Famma, junto a otras entidades, cooperen conjuntamente para la promover la acreditación que se persigue.

Menuda semana tras el breve descanso. Precios del petróleo, cifras de inflación, titulares fiscales y debates sobre la reunión del BCE de la próxima semana. Nos visitaron fantasmas del pasado, del presente y, potencialmente, del futuro próximo.
El consejero delegado de International Airlines Group (IAG), Luis Gallego, destacó este viernes “el buen funcionamiento” de los aeropuertos españoles en comparación con otros de Europa, entre los que citó los de Londres, Ámsterdam y Frankfurt, según dijo una conferencia con periodistas en relación con los resultados del ‘holding’ de Iberia y Vueling en el primer semestre.
Sugarbabe Deluxe es una plataforma de citas en línea de alto nivel que posee un carácter moderno y exclusivo, y que ofrece la oportunidad de hacer realidad el sueño de muchas personas mediante una gestión seria, discreta y cumpliendo todas las expectativas, tanto si se está buscando una relación de pareja a largo plazo, como si lo que se quiere es una aventura envuelta de mucha pasión y diversión para romper la rutina y evadirse.


Title: Burundi - ARIB.INFO Website - RDC : Les Maï-Maï appuyés des combattants burundais sèment la terreur







Pyramide "Source du Nil"


Les chutes de Karera


La "Faille des Allemands"


Pierre 'Stanley-Livingstone
Deutsche Welle,05.07.2018
Plusieurs ménages ont été encore touchés par trois jours d'affrontements opposant les factions rebelles congolaises des Maï-Maï aux rebelles Banyanmulengue dans le Sud Kivu.
Au moins 20 morts, plus de 400 ménages touchés et des milliers de personnes déplacées dans la ville d'Uvira dans le territoire de la province du Sud-Kivu en République démocratique du Congo : c'est le triste bilan de trois jours d'affrontements qui ont opposé les factions armées congolaises des Maï-Maï appuyés par des combattants burundais comme le Red Tabara et le Forebu aux autres groupes rebelles de Banyanmulengue.
Selon le rapport mensuel du "baromètre de sécurité" du Kivu, depuis mars, au total "56 meurtres, 126 enlèvements et 52 accrochages entre belligérants" ont été signalés dans les deux Kivu, en proie à la guerre et à l'activité des groupes armés.
Plusieurs groupes armés étrangers opèrent en RDC dont les plus connus sont : les forces démocratiques alliées (ADF), les forces démocratiques de libération du Rwanda (FDLR), l’armée de résistance du Seigneur (LRA) et les forces nationales de libération du Burundi (FNL) qui sévissent en RDC depuis les années 90.
Éloge Willy Kaneza de SOS Media Burundi nous explique les motifs de ces affrontements.
Ecoutez l’interview d'Éloge Willy Kaneza sur Deutsche Welle.



Place de l'Indépendance


Monument de l'Unité

Mausolée de Rwagasore

Présidence

Assemblée nationale

Sénat
parking aéroport pas cher

Title: Les Maï-Maï sèment à nouveau la terreur dans le Sud-Kivu – DW – 05/07/2018
Plusieurs ménages ont été encore touchés par trois jours d'affrontements opposant les factions rebelles congolaises des Maï-Maï aux rebelles Banyanmulengue dans le Sud-Kivu.
To play this audio please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 audio
Au moins 20 morts, plus de 400 ménages touchés et des milliers de personnes déplacées dans la ville d'Uvira dans le territoire de la province du Sud-Kivu en République démocratique du Congo : c'est le triste bilan de trois jours d'affrontements qui ont opposé les factions armées congolaises des Maï-Maï appuyés par des combattants burundais comme le Red Tabara et le FOREBU aux autres groupes rebelles de Banyanmulengue.
Selon le rapport mensuel du "baromètre de sécurité" du Kivu, depuis mars, au total "56 meurtres, 126 enlèvements et 52 accrochages entre belligérants" ont été signalés dans les deux Kivu, en proie à la guerre et à l'activité des groupes armés.Plusieurs groupes armés étrangers opèrent en RDC dont les plus connus sont : les forces démocratiques alliées (ADF), les forces démocratiques de libération du Rwanda (FDLR), l’armée de résistance du Seigneur (LRA) et lesforces nationales de libération du Burundi (FNL) qui sévissent en RDC depuis les années 90.Éloge Willy Kaneza de SOS Media Burundi nous explique les motifs de ces affrontements.
Ecoutez ou téléchargez l’interview d'Éloge Willy Kaneza en cliquant sur l’Image.

Title: UN Force Intervention Brigade in DR Congo to be reconfigured - defenceWeb
The latest UN Security council report on its single largest peace mission – MONUSCO in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) – indicates a reconfigured Force Intervention Brigade (FIB) is expected to be operational by October this year.
No details are given for either manpower or materiel but the report by Secretary-General Antonio Guterres states the reconfigured FIB will be “more flexible, agile and able to conduct both offensive and protection of civilians operations across North Kivu”.
This follows a joint UN/SADC (Southern African Development Community) task force created specifically to assess the FIB earlier this year. Meetings were held in New York and Goma with the southern African regional bloc represented by, among others, SA National Defence Force (SANDF) Joint Operations Chief, Lieutenant General Barney Hlatshwayo.“Two infantry battalions will be reduced to allow the generation of additional enablers that would improve manoeuvrability and enhance effectiveness. Additional enablers to be generated or reconfigured include a Special Forces company, a strengthened intelligence cell and a composite utility/attack helicopter unit. The reconfigured Intervention Brigade is expected to be fully operational by 30 September,” according to the report.
FIB strength currently stands at 2 826 under the command South African Brigadier General Patrick Dube. He has 1 126 Tanzanians and 850 troops each from Malawi and South Africa to utilise in an offensive role, the first time the world body has agreed to one of its peacekeeping missions proactively taking action to prevent death and injuries to civilians by rebel groups including ADF.
As far as safety and security of UN personnel in the DRC is concerned the Guterres’ reports notes that between March and June this year there were 202 incidents affecting UN personnel, uniformed components, assets and operations across the country.
Only 14 incidents were linked to armed conflict with the majority – 84 – being crime related. There were also 71 hazard related cases and 33 incidents of civil unrest.“In the Beni area military operations against ADF contributed to the risk against UN personnel, premises and assets. Humanitarian access to some areas remains a challenge due to recurrent ADF attacks in the interior of Beni territory and areas near Beni town. On occasions, movement of UN personnel has been suspended or restricted, owing to risks associated with ADF,” according to the report.



defenceWeb is Africa's largest and most trusted online source of news, information, research and insight on aerospace, defence and security matters.
Editorial Enquiries:[email protected]
Sales Enquiries:[email protected]
First Name
Last Name
Email address:
Country


Title: 7 killed in clashes between DRC, Ugandan navies: DRC governor | News24
Thursday, 29 August
06 Jul 2018
Four Ugandan soldiers and three civilians were killed on Thursday in clashes on Lake Edward that lies between the two countries, a senior official in the Democratic Republic of Congo said.
A DRC naval patrol was "attacked this morning by a Ugandan patrol boat in Congolese waters," Donat Kibwana, the administrator of the Beni region in the eastern province of Nord-Kivu said.
"The Ugandan boat sank and four troops and three Ugandan civilians are dead," he said. "On the Congolese side, a soldier and a civilian have been injured."
The clash took place near the Congolese village of Kyavinyonge on Lake Edward. There was no confirmation from the Ugandan side so far.
Kibwana said clashes between the forces of the two neighbouring countries had multiplied since the start of this month.
On Wednesday, a Ugandan patrol boat arrested 18 Congolese fishermen as they were casting their nets.
The Congolese navy is tasked with preventing militia fighters and local rebels and others from neighbouring Uganda and Rwanda from operating in the area.
Eastern DRC has been wracked by violence since the mid-1990s.
The Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) militia - created by Muslim radicals to oppose the rule of Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni - is one of a number of armed groups fighting over the region's rich mineral resources.
* Sign up to News24's top Africa news in your inbox:SUBSCRIBE TO THE HELLO AFRICA NEWSLETTER
FOLLOW News24 AfricaonTwitterandFacebook

Indulge in the finer things
News24's new magazine is curated for those who understand luxury and want to celebrate the richness of life.
Free to listen for subscribers
News24's August audiobook that’s free to listen to for subscribers is The CEO X Factor by KC Rottok Chesaina.
Can you ace them all?
Today’s crossword, wordflower, sudoku and weekly news quiz
Friday Briefing - weekly
Insight and analysis on the big political story of the week, plus a roundup of top columns and reader favourites.
21 Aug
16 Aug
07 Aug
01 Aug
19 Jul
15 Jul

Use your voice to deepen the dialogue and engage with stories of courage, endurance, community, triumph, and the pursuit of truth in SA.
13 Aug
16 Jul
30 Jun
19 Jun
Contact the public editor with feedback for our journalists, complaints, queries or suggestions about articles on News24.
22 Aug
20 Aug
20 Aug
19 Aug

Title: Row over Lake Edward – DW – 07/12/2018
Named after a British prince, and classified as an important international wetland, Lake Edward is the smallest in Africa’s Great Lakes region. Why are Uganda and DR Congo at odds over it?
Home to a rich biodiversity that includes many fish species and migratory birds, Lake Edward is located on the border between Uganda and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The lake got its current name after British explorer Henry Morton Stanley first came across it in 1888. He named the lake after His Royal Highness Albert Edward, The Prince of Wales.
The lake's name was changed to Lake Idi Amin after Ugandan dictator Idi Amin Dada in 1973, but after he was overthrown in 1978, the lake resumed its former name. The freshwater lake is one of the world's 2,231 Ramsar sites, a designation which marks it out as an important international wetland.
For many fishermen from the two countries, Lake Edward is a vital source of income. However, armed groups have used it to destabilize the two countries.
Recent clashes between Ugandan and Congolese forces reportedly left at least a dozen people killed. Violence erupted after the Congolese navy said it sent a mixed civilian and military patrol on to the lake to investigate reports that several Congolese fishermen had been stopped by Ugandan forces in Congolese waters.
One fisherman from DRC who chose not to reveal his identity told DW, Ugandan soldiers have a history of arbitrarily arresting Congolese fishermen. "They [Uganda's army] have turned it into a business. They arrest Congolese fishermen everyday, they even come into Congolese waters, take them to Ugandan waters and then accuse the fishermen of illegally crossing into Ugandan waters."
Read more:Uganda and Congo forces clash in Lake Edward dispute
According to Arthur Bainomugisha, a lecturer in Peace and Security studies at Makerere University in Uganda, such disputes are bound to continue until Uganda, DRC and many other African countries get clear border demarcations especially on water bodies. "The boundary dilemma which stems from the colonial times has remained one of the biggest challenges to African peace and stability," Bainomugisha told DW.
Need for border demarcations
According to the Ugandan scholar, there is need for an international border commission. "We need to clearly demarcate our borders to avoid [such] skirmishes."
Interestingly, Lake Edward which is believed to be rich in energy resources, lies within Congo's Virunga National Park — known for its mountain gorillas — and Uganda's Queen Elizabeth National Park.
To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser thatsupports HTML5 video
Since the start of 2018, tensions have been mounting between Uganda and DR Congo over who has the right to the lake's natural resources.
Read more:Virunga park rangers in DRC killed in ambush
Uganda's military spokesperson, Brigadier Richard Karemire, denied reports that there had been fighting between the two countries. "The [Ugandan Defense Forces] UPDF has not attacked DRC forces, these are friendly forces from a brotherly country," Karemire told DW. "There have been some activities that have been exacerbated by illegal fishermen, they are the cause of these issues, so all those will be sorted out and discussed," he added.
The oil and rebel factor
In 2014, British oil company SOCO abandoned plans to start drilling in Virunga National Park, following pressure from conservationists. There were reports that villagers who tried to prevent oil exploration were beaten or tortured. Kinshasa has always insisted that it has the right to drill for oil anywhere within its territory.
Last year, the bodies of 17 people fleeing violence in DRC were discovered in Lake Edward. They were reportedly seeking refuge from heavy fighting between the Mai-Mai armed militia group and Congolese forces.
Whereas DRC blames Uganda for frequently violating its territorial integrity, Uganda has long accused Congo of not doing enough to stop rebels who use the area surrounding Lake Edward to stage cross-border attacks.
This week, Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni criticized the United Nations and the DRC for not fighting rebels of the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF). Museveni blamed the rebels for a spate of killings and kidnappings in Uganda's capital Kampala.
Read more:Uganda in the grip of violent crime wave
When pressed by DW to confirm the recent clashes between Ugandan and Congolese forces, Karemire chose to remain ambiguous. "We remain on the border [of course] to ensure that there are no incursions, especially by the ADF."

Title: Wanajeshi wa Congo na Uganda wapambana Ziwa Edward – DW – 06.07.2018
Mapigano kati ya majeshi ya wanamaji wa Jamhuri ya Kidemokrasia ya Kongo na wale wa Ugada kwenye Ziwa Edward wilayani Beni katika Mkoa wa Kivu Kaskazini yanaripotiwa kuuwa watu wapatao sita.
Akizungumza na kituo cha redio cha RTR kwa njia ya simu, mwenyekiti wa mashirika ya kiraia katika mji mdogo wa Kyavinyonge, Samy Muloko, alisema kuwa tangu majuzi wanamaji wa jeshi la Uganda waliteka mitumbwi ya wavuvi kumi na wanane wa Kongo, na mingine saba hapo jana.
Hali hiyo, kwa mujibu wa Muloko, ilipelekea wanamaji wa jeshi la Congo walioko katika mji mdogo wa Kyavinyonge kupiga doria katika Ziwa Edward na ghafla wakakutana na wanajeshi wa Uganda, na ndipo makabiliano yakaanza kati yao:
Makabiliano ya jana kwenye Ziwa Edward yaliyopelekea kuuawa kwa wanajeshi watano na raia watatu upande wa Uganda, kwa mujibu wa duru za mashirika ya kiraia, ni ya kwanza ya aina yake kutokea katika ziwa hilo kwa miaka kadhaa sasa.
Kikawaida, wanaposhikwa wavuvi wa pande zote mbili, yaani DRC na Uganda, kuna tume zinazohusika na kufuatilia mikasa ya aina hiyo, ambazo baadaye hufanikisha kuachiwa kwao huru. Lakini hadi sasa hakuna upande wowote uliozungumzia lolote kuhusu mkasa huo wa jana.
Mapambano na waasi wa ADF
Huku hayo yakiendelea, jeshi ya Congo lilipambana jana na waasi wa ADF kutokea Uganda katika Bonde la Mualika wilayani Beni.
Kwa mujibu wa msemaji wa jeshi, katika operesheni hiyo dhidi ya ADF, waasi tano waliuawa na silaha moja aina ya AK47 kuchukuliwa na majeshi ya Congo.
Kapteni Mack Hazukay alisisitiza, kuwa walipokuwa wanapambana na waasi wa ADF, pia kulikuwa na wapiganaji wa Maimai kutoka kundi la UPLC ambao waliwashambulia wanajeshi katika kijiji cha Kanyihunga, wilaya ya Beni.
Kwa mujibu wa KapTeni Hazukay, wapiganaji watatu wa Maimai waliuawa, na kwamba operesheni za safishasafisha zinaendelea:
Kwa mujibu wa wachambuzi wa mzozo huu wa mashariki ya Kongo, harakati za wapiganaji wa kijadi wa Maimai katika wilaya ya Beni, zinaonekana kupunguza nguvu ya majeshi ya Congo katika vita vyake dhidi ya waasi wa ADF, na madhara ni kuuawa kwa raia wa kawaida na ADF katika maeneo mbalimbali. Swali ni je, Maimai wanawaunga mkono waasi wa ADF kutoka Uganda au la?
Mwandishi: John Kanyunyu/DW Beni
Mhariri: Mohammed Khelef


Title: Mapigano kati ya vikosi vya Uganda na DRC katika ziwa Edward - BBC News Swahili
Chanzo cha picha,AFP
Watu 7 wamefariki wakiwemo wanajeshi 4 wa Uganda katika mapigano kwenye ziwa Edward kati ya vikosi kutoka Jamhuri ya Kidemokrasi ya Congo na Uganda,  kwa mujibu wa afisa wa Congo aliyenukuliwa na shirika la habari la AFP.
Ziwa Edward  lipo katika mpaka kati  ya nchi hizo mbili.
Kiongozi kutoka Beni, Donat Kibwana, amenukuliwa na AFP akisema kuwa mashua ya kupiga doria ya Congo ilishambuliwa Alhamisi asubuhi na boti la kupiga 'doria la Uganda'.
Boti la Uganda lilizama na wanajeshi wanne wa taifa hilo na raia watatu walifariki, aliongeza.
Twaweza: Watanzania 'hawako tayari kuandamana'
Onyo la Macron kuhusu vituo vya wahamiaji Afrika
Jaribu Muliwavyo, mbunge kutoka eneo hilo, amekiambia kituo kimoja cha redio Congo  kwamba mapigano hayo yanatokana na mzozo wa haki za kuvua.
Chanzo cha picha,Getty Images
Msemaji wa jeshi la Uganda, Brigedia Richard Karemire, amewashutumu "wanaume waliojihami waliorusha guruneti ndani ya boti letu la kupiga doria", linaripoti gazeti la New Vision Uganda.
Shambulio hili limetokea katika mto huo upande wa Congo katka jimbo la Kivu kaskazini.
Mwandishi wa BBC anaeleza kuwa kumeshuhudiwa visa kadhaa kati ya  vikosi vilivyojihami Congo na vikosi wa Uganda.
Mama mwenye miaka 91 amuua mwanaye kuepuka kwenda nyumba ya kulea wazee
Wanausalama wa Ethiopia tuhumani
Mwezi uliopita, Uganda iliwakamata kwa muda wavuvi 48 kutoka DRC ikiwashutumu kwa kuvuka mpaka wa baharini na kuingia upande wa Uganda.
Katika shambulio jingine tofuati wiki hiii katika eneo hilo la Kivu kaskazini, wanajeshi 8 wanaripotiwa kuuawa katika mapigano kati ya vikosi vya Congo , kundi la waamgambo  nchini na wanamgambo wa ADF kutoka Uganda.
Wamekuwepo katika katika jimbo hilo lenye utajiri wa rasilmali kwa miaka kadhaa.
©2024 BBC. BBC haihusiki na taarifa za kutoka mitandao ya nje.Soma kuhusu mtazamo wetu wa viambatanishi vya nje.

Title: No title found


Title: Tackling Terrorism 3.0: Terror's Shift Into Big Business | TexasGOPVote
Register to Vote
List of Voter Registrars
Your Voting Rights
List of Election Officials
Military & Overseas Voters
Voters with Special Needs
Who Represents Me?
Texas Statewide Officials
Texas Supreme Court Justices
Texas Senate
Texas House
State Republican Executive Committee
GOP County Chairs
As the war waged in Syria has moved forward with YPG (Kurdish) troops in the North and U.S.-supported FSA and Iraqi Troops in the East, ISIS took major hits and was reduced in operational functionality over 2017.
The Trump Administration’s push into infiltrating ISIS cells on Telegram led to further wins in 2018 — however this led to shifts in ISIS’s operational strategy and focus.
With much of Syria lost, ISIS has moved in two major directions:
1) To the North to Afghanistan
2) To the South in Africa (backing up Boko Haram, whose Emirs they started supporting a few years ago, plus linking themselves to Al-Shabab)
This shift has moved terrorist organizations to become commodity traders as well — facilitating ongoing operations and regional control — with significant impacts to how these organizations maintain themselves and continue funding operations into the future. Even with regionalstrategic winsin Afghanistan’s Nanganhar.
What We Knew: Oil in Syria
“Oil and gas obtained by the Islamic State was sold to Turkey and the Syrian regime,” Razeek Radeek Maksimo, an Azerbaijani national and formerly senior ISIS commander, told Kurdistan 24 from a prison in Rojava where he is held by Syrian Kurdish authorities.
“[Oil] was sold to Turkey through the Free Syrian Army (FSA),” Maksimotold Kurdistan 24.
Impact: Regional instability will continue to lead to illegal oil sales being an issue. Challenges with sustained FSA support in the complicated ground war can lead to continued situations where financial insolvency lends to them brokering oil deals.
The Taliban and ISIS in Afghanistan
While each terrorist organization has different mandates — the Taliban more regional Afghani control, and ISIS with a focus on decentralized warfare against Muslims and Non-Muslims who don’t agree with their cult ideology — their move into commodities complicates how we tackle terror.
The Afghanistan Anti-Corruption Networkhas reportedthat the Taliban and the Islamic State together earned approximately $46 million from illegal mining from a single district in eastern Nangarhar province in 2016 alone. Sources in Nangarhar confirmed in December that the Taliban controlled and taxed many marble and talc mines in the Nangarhar district of Khogiani, while Islamic State militants taxed and smuggled talc from nearby Achin district, which was in the news in April 2017 when it washit by the U.S. military’s most powerful nonnuclear bomb, the Massive Ordnance Air Blast, known as the “mother of all bombs.” For all the attention generated by that bombing, which President Donald Trump commended as a “very, very successful mission,” itfailed to diminish the Islamic State’s presencein Achin or curb its illegal mining activities.
Integrity Watch Afghanistan and Global Witness, two anti-corruption watchdogs, said parliament’s failure to nominate a mining minister “risks delaying by several years reforms which were already long overdue.” That delay, theyadded, “will only encourage the continued corruption of the sector, the further strengthening of armed groups and the insurgency, and the further suffering of the Afghan people.”
Impact: With a shift into long term revenue generation streams, such as mining — both the Taliban and ISIS are setting the stage for further decades-long entrenched warfare — potentially requiring a major shift in military and diplomatic strategies.
ISIS Exploitation in North Africa
The Institute for Security Studiesreports:
“In an interview with the ISS, Remy Kasindi, Director of Research at the Centre for Research and Strategic Studies in Central Africa (a think tank based in Bukavu) confirmed that terrorist organizations have infiltrated the illicit mineral networks in the region. Kasindi explained that terror groups such as al-Shabaab and the Allied Democratic Forces-National Army for the Liberation of Uganda (ADF-NALU) have joined hands in smuggling minerals from North Kivu.According to Strategic Intelligence News, ‘ADF-NALU participates in illegal gold mining, timber smuggling and precious metal mining in DRC.' …the DRC government accused Somali mercenaries connected to al-Shabaab of joining ADF-NALU in North Kivu province to destabilise the country. Al-Shabaab’s allegiance to larger international terror groups such as the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and al-Qaeda means its expansion into the DRC poses a significant threat.”
By 2018, this has become an ongoing challenge.
What this means for the future: ISIS’s movement to operate more like a funding organization for regional terror organizations will increase the complexity of solving conflicts from Afghanistan through Pakistan and now across Africa. Military cooperation with diplomatic collaboration will be key.
View the discussion thread.
© 2015 TexasGOPVote  |Terms of Use|Privacy Policy

Title: 
	Tackling Terrorism 3.0: Terror's Shift Into Big Business | Newsmax.com

ByOz Sultan|Tuesday, 10 July 2018 10:55 AM EDT
As the war waged in Syria has moved forward with YPG (Kurdish) troops in the North and U.S.-supported FSA and Iraqi Troops in the East, ISIS took major hits and was reduced in operational functionality over 2017.
The Trump Administration’s push into infiltrating ISIS cells on Telegram led to further wins in 2018 — however this led to shifts in ISIS’s operational strategy and focus.
With much of Syria lost, ISIS has moved in two major directions:
1) To the North to Afghanistan
2) To the South in Africa (backing up Boko Haram, whose Emirs they started supporting a few years ago, plus linking themselves to Al-Shabab)
This shift has moved terrorist organizations to become commodity traders as well — facilitating ongoing operations and regional control — with significant impacts to how these organizations maintain themselves and continue funding operations into the future. Even with regionalstrategic winsin Afghanistan’s Nanganhar.
What We Knew: Oil in Syria
“Oil and gas obtained by the Islamic State was sold to Turkey and the Syrian regime,” Razeek Radeek Maksimo, an Azerbaijani national and formerly senior ISIS commander, told Kurdistan 24 from a prison in Rojava where he is held by Syrian Kurdish authorities.
“[Oil] was sold to Turkey through the Free Syrian Army (FSA),” Maksimotold Kurdistan 24.
Impact: Regional instability will continue to lead to illegal oil sales being an issue. Challenges with sustained FSA support in the complicated ground war can lead to continued situations where financial insolvency lends to them brokering oil deals.
The Taliban and ISIS in Afghanistan
While each terrorist organization has different mandates — the Taliban more regional Afghani control, and ISIS with a focus on decentralized warfare against Muslims and Non-Muslims who don’t agree with their cult ideology — their move into commodities complicates how we tackle terror.
The Afghanistan Anti-Corruption Networkhas reportedthat the Taliban and the Islamic State together earned approximately $46 million from illegal mining from a single district in eastern Nangarhar province in 2016 alone. Sources in Nangarhar confirmed in December that the Taliban controlled and taxed many marble and talc mines in the Nangarhar district of Khogiani, while Islamic State militants taxed and smuggled talc from nearby Achin district, which was in the news in April 2017 when it washit by the U.S. military’s most powerful nonnuclear bomb, the Massive Ordnance Air Blast, known as the “mother of all bombs.” For all the attention generated by that bombing, which President Donald Trump commended as a “very, very successful mission,” itfailed to diminish the Islamic State’s presencein Achin or curb its illegal mining activities.
Integrity Watch Afghanistan and Global Witness, two anti-corruption watchdogs, said parliament’s failure to nominate a mining minister “risks delaying by several years reforms which were already long overdue.” That delay, theyadded, “will only encourage the continued corruption of the sector, the further strengthening of armed groups and the insurgency, and the further suffering of the Afghan people.”
Impact: With a shift into long term revenue generation streams, such as mining — both the Taliban and ISIS are setting the stage for further decades-long entrenched warfare — potentially requiring a major shift in military and diplomatic strategies.
ISIS Exploitation in North Africa
The Institute for Security Studiesreports:
“In an interview with the ISS, Remy Kasindi, Director of Research at the Centre for Research and Strategic Studies in Central Africa (a think tank based in Bukavu) confirmed that terrorist organizations have infiltrated the illicit mineral networks in the region. Kasindi explained that terror groups such as al-Shabaab and the Allied Democratic Forces-National Army for the Liberation of Uganda (ADF-NALU) have joined hands in smuggling minerals from North Kivu.According to Strategic Intelligence News, ‘ADF-NALU participates in illegal gold mining, timber smuggling and precious metal mining in DRC.' …the DRC government accused Somali mercenaries connected to al-Shabaab of joining ADF-NALU in North Kivu province to destabilise the country. Al-Shabaab’s allegiance to larger international terror groups such as the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and al-Qaeda means its expansion into the DRC poses a significant threat.”
By 2018, this has become an ongoing challenge.
What this means for the future: ISIS’s movement to operate more like a funding organization for regional terror organizations will increase the complexity of solving conflicts from Afghanistan through Pakistan and now across Africa. Military cooperation with diplomatic collaboration will be key.
Oz Sultan is a leading Big Data and counterterrorism expert who focuses on anti-recruiting and ISIS counterterror (CT) research within social media. He also advises a number of Fortune 1000 companies and is Adjunct Faculty at City University of New York (CUNY) Baruch. To read more of his reports —Click Here Now.
© 2024 Newsmax. All rights reserved.
Receive breaking news and original analysis - sent right to your inbox.
Interest-Based Advertising|Do not sell or share my personal information
Newsmax, Moneynews, Newsmax Health, and Independent. American. are registered trademarks of Newsmax Media, Inc. Newsmax TV, and Newsmax World are trademarks of Newsmax Media, Inc.

Title: No title found


Title: MSN


Title: MSN


Title: M23 near Gatwick Airport closed while man helped down from a bridge - Surrey Live
The motorway was closed in both directions from 4.58am to 5.40am
Sign up to our free email newsletter for daily roundups of the biggest headlines as well as all the latest breaking news
We have more newsletters
Sign up to our free email newsletter for daily roundups of the biggest headlines as well as all the latest breaking news
We have more newsletters
The M23 was closed nearGatwick Airportfor nearly an hour while a man was helped down from a bridge to safety.
In the early hours of Sunday morning (July 1), police officers were called after concerns for safety of a man standing on a bridge.
They attended the scene between Junctions 8Hooleyand Junction 9 Gatwick Airport.
A police spokesman said: “We were called to the M23 at 4.58am following concerns for the safety of a man on a bridge between junctions 9 and 8.”
Both directions of the motorway had to be closed while officers spoke to the man involved.
Highways England tweeted and said: “#M23 J8 - J9 both directions ...#Traffic Held.. we'll update you as soon as possible... #Gatwick @Gatwick_Airport”
The road was then reopened at 5.40am after the man was helped down.
“The road was closed while officers spoke to the man and at 5.40am he was helped to safety,” the police spokesman continued.


Title: Sud-Kivu : des ex-combattants FDLR commencent à quitter le camp de transit de Walungu pour le Rwanda - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWeb
DR Congo+ 1 more
Au Sud-Kivu, un ex-combattant FDLR et ses dépendants ont quitté cette semaine le site de transit de Walungu. En transit à Bukavu, ils vont regagner leur pays d’origine dans quelques jours, bien des mois avant la fermeture inconditionnelle des sites de transit DDR/RR à Walungu, Kanyabayonga au Nord-Kivu et Bahuma à Kisangani en octobre.
C’est le mardi 10 juillet 2018 que l’ex-combattant FDLR, son épouse et leur fille sont arrivés à Bukavu, acheminés depuis le site de Walungu par le personnel de la MONUSCO chargé de Désarmement, Démobilisation, Rapatriement, Réinsertion et Réintégration (DDRRR). Leur transit au camp DDRRR à Bukavu ne durera pas plus d’une semaine, avant qu’ils soient transférés dans le camp de transit de Nyagatare au Rwanda pour le processus de leur réinsertion. A Bukavu, le programme DDRRR leur a octroyé un kit composé d’un petit sac de voyage, de chaussures et d’une somme d’argent, pour préparer leur retour au Rwanda.
James Gadin, chef de Bureau par intérim de la MONUSCO Sud-Kivu et Maniema, se félicite de ce rapatriement volontaire qui intervient à quelques mois de la fermeture du site de transit des ex-combattants FDLR de Walungu. En effet, selon une décision prise par les Chefs d’Etat et des gouvernements membres de la Conférence Internationale sur la Région des Grands Lacs (CIRGL) réunis en octobre 2017 à Brazzaville en République du Congo voisine, c’est le 20 octobre 2018 que doivent être fermés les sites de transit des ex-combattants FDLR à Walungu au Sud-Kivu, Kanyabayonga au Nord-Kivu et Bahuma à Kisangani, dans la province de la Tshopo (dans l’ex-Province Orientale). Cette fermeture est inconditionnelle. Les occupants de ces sites ont été informés de cette décision en avril dernier, lors du passage en avril dernier d’une délégation du Mécanisme Conjoint de Suivi du rapatriement des combattants étrangers. La délégation était composée des représentants de la CIRGL, de l’Union Africaine, de la MONUSCO, entre autres.
Selon James Gadin, le départ de cette famille volontaire au rapatriement est d’une grande importance non seulement pour la MONUSCO mais aussi pour le gouvernement de la RDC, la CIRGL, l’Envoyé Spécial du Secrétaire Général de l’ONU pour la Région des Grands Lacs. C’est aussi le début de la fin du site de transit des ex-combattants FDLR à Walungu. Bien que leur condition de vie laisse à désirer, les ex-combattants FDLR et leurs dépendants ont occupé ce site de transit depuis plus de trois ans, par solidarité ou par intimidation interne. La famille qui quittera bientôt le sol congolais entrevoit la possibilité de vivre la paix, le bonheur et la prospérité, chez eux, après tant d’années dans la brousse puis dans le site de transit.
C’est dans cette optique que James Gadin a encouragé le reste des 189 occupants (dont 44 ex-combattants) du site de Walungu ainsi que d’autres combattants encore en brousse à accepter de commencer une nouvelle vie qui leur offrira un meilleur avenir à eux et à leur progéniture.
Lors de son passage au Sud-Kivu, la délégation du Mécanisme Conjoint de Suivi du Rapatriement des Combattants Etrangers avait indiqué que des mesures étaient déjà prises au Rwanda pour l'accueil et la réinsertion des ex-combattants FDLR.
DR Congo
DR Congo
DR Congo+ 1 more
DR Congo
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: U.S. may consider easing sanctions on Rwanda - 24Tanzania.com
The United States would consider resuming military aid to Rwanda if it found Rwandan support for the M23 Congolese rebel group believed to use child soldiers had ended, a senior U.S. official said on Wednesday.U.S. embassy in RwandaOn October 3, Washington said it would block U.S. military aid to Rwanda because of its “support for the M23, a rebel group which continues to actively recruit and abduct children” and which has posed a threat to the stability of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.M23 is a Tutsi-dominated rebellion of former Congolese soldiers that began taking parts of eastern Congo last year, accusing the government of failing to honor a 2009 peace deal.The group on Tuesday called an end to its 20-month revolt after the army captured its last hilltop strongholds, raising hopes for peace in a region where millions have died in nearly two decades of violence.Under U.S. sanctions, Rwanda does not get U.S. International Military Education and Training funds, which help train foreign militaries, or U.S. Foreign Military Financing, which funds the sale of U.S. military materiel and services.Russ Feingold, U.S. special envoy for the Great Lakes region of Africa, told reporters that the United States would conduct an investigation and could lift the sanctions if it found that any Rwandan support for M23′s use of child soldiers had ceased.“If it turns out that Rwanda is no longer involved in such activities, if it turns out that their role here has been a positive one – and there is much that they have done during this (peace) process to be positive … then we would certainly review whether it’s appropriate to continue these sanctions,” Feingold said.“They are based specifically on certain actions that we believe occurred and if those actions cease, there would certainly be a serious review of whether it is appropriate to continue it (the sanctions),” he told a conference call.Millions of people have died from violence, disease and hunger since the 1990s as foreign-backed insurgents have waged a series of rebellions, often for control of eastern Congo’s rich deposits of gold, diamonds and tin.M23′s defeat appeared to vindicate the United Nations’ deployment of a tough new Intervention Brigade this year. But, with dozens of rebel groups still active, pacifying the mineral-rich region at Africa’s heart remains a daunting task.The M23 is just the latest manifestation of simmering anger toward Kinshasa among ethnic Tutsis in eastern Congo. The real test will be whether government and rebels can reach a lasting political deal.Reuters
U.S. embassy in Rwanda
On October 3, Washington said it would block U.S. military aid to Rwanda because of its “support for the M23, a rebel group which continues to actively recruit and abduct children” and which has posed a threat to the stability of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
M23 is a Tutsi-dominated rebellion of former Congolese soldiers that began taking parts of eastern Congo last year, accusing the government of failing to honor a 2009 peace deal.
The group on Tuesday called an end to its 20-month revolt after the army captured its last hilltop strongholds, raising hopes for peace in a region where millions have died in nearly two decades of violence.
Under U.S. sanctions, Rwanda does not get U.S. International Military Education and Training funds, which help train foreign militaries, or U.S. Foreign Military Financing, which funds the sale of U.S. military materiel and services.
Russ Feingold, U.S. special envoy for the Great Lakes region of Africa, told reporters that the United States would conduct an investigation and could lift the sanctions if it found that any Rwandan support for M23′s use of child soldiers had ceased.
“If it turns out that Rwanda is no longer involved in such activities, if it turns out that their role here has been a positive one – and there is much that they have done during this (peace) process to be positive … then we would certainly review whether it’s appropriate to continue these sanctions,” Feingold said.
“They are based specifically on certain actions that we believe occurred and if those actions cease, there would certainly be a serious review of whether it is appropriate to continue it (the sanctions),” he told a conference call.
Millions of people have died from violence, disease and hunger since the 1990s as foreign-backed insurgents have waged a series of rebellions, often for control of eastern Congo’s rich deposits of gold, diamonds and tin.
M23′s defeat appeared to vindicate the United Nations’ deployment of a tough new Intervention Brigade this year. But, with dozens of rebel groups still active, pacifying the mineral-rich region at Africa’s heart remains a daunting task.
The M23 is just the latest manifestation of simmering anger toward Kinshasa among ethnic Tutsis in eastern Congo. The real test will be whether government and rebels can reach a lasting political deal.
Reuters
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*

Name
Email
Website


This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.Learn how your comment data is processed.

Title: Home | Monitor
Some Ugandan career diplomats believe that the majority of the political appointees are unfit and unsuitable to represent the country abroad
The judge's order is intended to facilitate the defense team's cross-examination of forensic scientist Andrew Kizimula Mubiru, scheduled to begin on September 10
More than half of Uganda’s population, estimated at 45.9 million, is under the age of 35, according to preliminary results of the latest national population and housing census conducted in May...
The nine-time champions have had to endure a season dominated by a series of problems.
Cheptegei expressed his gratitude, saying he is excited about building partnerships with supportive organisations
Concentrating government offices and activities in Kampala has created a property asset bubble in the capital that is at odds with how congested and unliveable the city has become
Much as the rear seats were designed to accommodate three passengers, they can comfortably take on four passengers and each will have enough legroom, even for long distances
Several subscribers have cancelled their pay TV subscriptions in favour of streaming services that provide on-demand content, flexible viewing options, and budget-friendly subscription plans.
When he met Aline Kalisa, Rogers Murungi was going through a divorce with the mother of his two children
Like someone had opened the floodgates, other symptoms followed on the heels of her snapping knees. The worst were the hot flashes
Manchester United forward Alejandro Garnacho has the potential to become a world class player, manager Erik ten Hag has said
Nation Media Group © 2024
It's free!
Access the best of Monitor's Independent Journalism

Title: Nation - Breaking News, Kenya, Africa, Politics, Business, Sports | HOME | Nation
Court bans him from public office for a decade, even as he declares he will appeal the conviction.
Raila also promised to pursue a continental air control system to reduce bureaucratic hurdles.
Kuppet says it prefers talks over protracted court battles.
New officials will take over once the terms of the current office holders expire.
DPP urges the court to impose a maximum sentence on the politician.
Prof Mary Walingo in legal trouble after the university council accuses her of embezzlement.
However, he did not give a timeline on when this will happen.
Sponsored by HF Markets
Sponsored by Stand Up Young Africa (SUYA) Foundation
Sponsored by Tanzania Ports Authority
Sponsored by Open University of Kenya
The economic case of family planning and why it matters not only to individuals and families, but for the nation at large.
Article 57 of the Kenyan Constitution commands the State and the family to offer older persons in the society reasonable care and assistance. As per the Constitution older women and men are those...
From Frequently Asked Questions to school going children must register before reporting. Join the conversation with Health Lawyer, Margaret Nyambura , Dr Simon Kigondu and host, Dr Diana Wangari
Raila also promised to pursue a continental air control system to reduce bureaucratic hurdles.
Events from far and wide seemed to have converged to bring Raila Odinga good fortune.
Aviation Workers Union demands transparency as government scrambles to avert aviation crisis
Frequent and erratic revision of regulations creates shaky ground for the construction industry.
You’ll remember from last week that I hadn’t paid my rent for August three and a half weeks later, and I had only been given by the landlady till end-of-week to do so.
Prezzo, a pioneer in the Kenyan music scene, has significantly influenced the industry over the years.
A walk to a gym in Nairobi on any day, you can rest assured to find almost all women rocking those sports bras.
Kenyan champions go down fighting to CBE.
Nation Media Group © 2024

Title: 7 killed in clashes between DR Congo, Ugandan navies: Congolese governor
Other clashes in the region between DR Congo forces and Ugandan rebels as well as a local militia claimed eight more lives, the army said.A DR Congo naval patrol was "attacked this morning by a Ugandan patrol boat in Congolese waters," Donat Kibwana, the administrator of the Beni region in the eastern province of Nord-Kivu said."The Ugandan boat sank and four troops and three Ugandan civilians are dead," he said. "On the Congolese side, a soldier and a civilian have been injured."The clash took place near the Congolese village of Kyavinyonge on Lake Edward.There has been no confirmation from the Ugandan side so far.Kibwana said clashes between the forces of the two neighbouring countries had multiplied since the start of this month.On Wednesday, a Ugandan patrol boat arrested 18 Congolese fishermen as they were casting their nets.The Congolese navy is tasked with preventing militia fighters and local rebels and others from neighbouring Uganda and Rwanda from operating in the area.Eastern DRC has been wracked by violence since the mid-1990s.The Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) militia -- created by Muslim radicals to oppose the rule of Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni -- is one of a number of armed groups fighting over the region's rich mineral resources.On Thursday, three members of the local Mai-Mai militia were killed at Kanyihunga, about 50 kilometres (30 miles) north of Lake Edward after they attacked an army post, Captain Mak Hazukay, the regional army spokesman said.Hazukay said five ADF rebels died in Mwalika in Nord Kivu in clashes with the army.The group stands accused of killing hundreds of civilians over the years and of carrying out a deadly attack on UN troops in Beni last December that left 15 peacekeepers dead.
A DR Congo naval patrol was "attacked this morning by a Ugandan patrol boat in Congolese waters," Donat Kibwana, the administrator of the Beni region in the eastern province of Nord-Kivu said."The Ugandan boat sank and four troops and three Ugandan civilians are dead," he said. "On the Congolese side, a soldier and a civilian have been injured."The clash took place near the Congolese village of Kyavinyonge on Lake Edward.There has been no confirmation from the Ugandan side so far.Kibwana said clashes between the forces of the two neighbouring countries had multiplied since the start of this month.On Wednesday, a Ugandan patrol boat arrested 18 Congolese fishermen as they were casting their nets.The Congolese navy is tasked with preventing militia fighters and local rebels and others from neighbouring Uganda and Rwanda from operating in the area.Eastern DRC has been wracked by violence since the mid-1990s.The Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) militia -- created by Muslim radicals to oppose the rule of Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni -- is one of a number of armed groups fighting over the region's rich mineral resources.On Thursday, three members of the local Mai-Mai militia were killed at Kanyihunga, about 50 kilometres (30 miles) north of Lake Edward after they attacked an army post, Captain Mak Hazukay, the regional army spokesman said.Hazukay said five ADF rebels died in Mwalika in Nord Kivu in clashes with the army.The group stands accused of killing hundreds of civilians over the years and of carrying out a deadly attack on UN troops in Beni last December that left 15 peacekeepers dead.
"The Ugandan boat sank and four troops and three Ugandan civilians are dead," he said. "On the Congolese side, a soldier and a civilian have been injured."The clash took place near the Congolese village of Kyavinyonge on Lake Edward.There has been no confirmation from the Ugandan side so far.Kibwana said clashes between the forces of the two neighbouring countries had multiplied since the start of this month.On Wednesday, a Ugandan patrol boat arrested 18 Congolese fishermen as they were casting their nets.The Congolese navy is tasked with preventing militia fighters and local rebels and others from neighbouring Uganda and Rwanda from operating in the area.Eastern DRC has been wracked by violence since the mid-1990s.The Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) militia -- created by Muslim radicals to oppose the rule of Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni -- is one of a number of armed groups fighting over the region's rich mineral resources.On Thursday, three members of the local Mai-Mai militia were killed at Kanyihunga, about 50 kilometres (30 miles) north of Lake Edward after they attacked an army post, Captain Mak Hazukay, the regional army spokesman said.Hazukay said five ADF rebels died in Mwalika in Nord Kivu in clashes with the army.The group stands accused of killing hundreds of civilians over the years and of carrying out a deadly attack on UN troops in Beni last December that left 15 peacekeepers dead.
The clash took place near the Congolese village of Kyavinyonge on Lake Edward.There has been no confirmation from the Ugandan side so far.Kibwana said clashes between the forces of the two neighbouring countries had multiplied since the start of this month.On Wednesday, a Ugandan patrol boat arrested 18 Congolese fishermen as they were casting their nets.The Congolese navy is tasked with preventing militia fighters and local rebels and others from neighbouring Uganda and Rwanda from operating in the area.Eastern DRC has been wracked by violence since the mid-1990s.The Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) militia -- created by Muslim radicals to oppose the rule of Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni -- is one of a number of armed groups fighting over the region's rich mineral resources.On Thursday, three members of the local Mai-Mai militia were killed at Kanyihunga, about 50 kilometres (30 miles) north of Lake Edward after they attacked an army post, Captain Mak Hazukay, the regional army spokesman said.Hazukay said five ADF rebels died in Mwalika in Nord Kivu in clashes with the army.The group stands accused of killing hundreds of civilians over the years and of carrying out a deadly attack on UN troops in Beni last December that left 15 peacekeepers dead.
There has been no confirmation from the Ugandan side so far.Kibwana said clashes between the forces of the two neighbouring countries had multiplied since the start of this month.On Wednesday, a Ugandan patrol boat arrested 18 Congolese fishermen as they were casting their nets.The Congolese navy is tasked with preventing militia fighters and local rebels and others from neighbouring Uganda and Rwanda from operating in the area.Eastern DRC has been wracked by violence since the mid-1990s.The Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) militia -- created by Muslim radicals to oppose the rule of Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni -- is one of a number of armed groups fighting over the region's rich mineral resources.On Thursday, three members of the local Mai-Mai militia were killed at Kanyihunga, about 50 kilometres (30 miles) north of Lake Edward after they attacked an army post, Captain Mak Hazukay, the regional army spokesman said.Hazukay said five ADF rebels died in Mwalika in Nord Kivu in clashes with the army.The group stands accused of killing hundreds of civilians over the years and of carrying out a deadly attack on UN troops in Beni last December that left 15 peacekeepers dead.
Kibwana said clashes between the forces of the two neighbouring countries had multiplied since the start of this month.On Wednesday, a Ugandan patrol boat arrested 18 Congolese fishermen as they were casting their nets.The Congolese navy is tasked with preventing militia fighters and local rebels and others from neighbouring Uganda and Rwanda from operating in the area.Eastern DRC has been wracked by violence since the mid-1990s.The Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) militia -- created by Muslim radicals to oppose the rule of Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni -- is one of a number of armed groups fighting over the region's rich mineral resources.On Thursday, three members of the local Mai-Mai militia were killed at Kanyihunga, about 50 kilometres (30 miles) north of Lake Edward after they attacked an army post, Captain Mak Hazukay, the regional army spokesman said.Hazukay said five ADF rebels died in Mwalika in Nord Kivu in clashes with the army.The group stands accused of killing hundreds of civilians over the years and of carrying out a deadly attack on UN troops in Beni last December that left 15 peacekeepers dead.
On Wednesday, a Ugandan patrol boat arrested 18 Congolese fishermen as they were casting their nets.The Congolese navy is tasked with preventing militia fighters and local rebels and others from neighbouring Uganda and Rwanda from operating in the area.Eastern DRC has been wracked by violence since the mid-1990s.The Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) militia -- created by Muslim radicals to oppose the rule of Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni -- is one of a number of armed groups fighting over the region's rich mineral resources.On Thursday, three members of the local Mai-Mai militia were killed at Kanyihunga, about 50 kilometres (30 miles) north of Lake Edward after they attacked an army post, Captain Mak Hazukay, the regional army spokesman said.Hazukay said five ADF rebels died in Mwalika in Nord Kivu in clashes with the army.The group stands accused of killing hundreds of civilians over the years and of carrying out a deadly attack on UN troops in Beni last December that left 15 peacekeepers dead.
The Congolese navy is tasked with preventing militia fighters and local rebels and others from neighbouring Uganda and Rwanda from operating in the area.Eastern DRC has been wracked by violence since the mid-1990s.The Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) militia -- created by Muslim radicals to oppose the rule of Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni -- is one of a number of armed groups fighting over the region's rich mineral resources.On Thursday, three members of the local Mai-Mai militia were killed at Kanyihunga, about 50 kilometres (30 miles) north of Lake Edward after they attacked an army post, Captain Mak Hazukay, the regional army spokesman said.Hazukay said five ADF rebels died in Mwalika in Nord Kivu in clashes with the army.The group stands accused of killing hundreds of civilians over the years and of carrying out a deadly attack on UN troops in Beni last December that left 15 peacekeepers dead.
Eastern DRC has been wracked by violence since the mid-1990s.The Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) militia -- created by Muslim radicals to oppose the rule of Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni -- is one of a number of armed groups fighting over the region's rich mineral resources.On Thursday, three members of the local Mai-Mai militia were killed at Kanyihunga, about 50 kilometres (30 miles) north of Lake Edward after they attacked an army post, Captain Mak Hazukay, the regional army spokesman said.Hazukay said five ADF rebels died in Mwalika in Nord Kivu in clashes with the army.The group stands accused of killing hundreds of civilians over the years and of carrying out a deadly attack on UN troops in Beni last December that left 15 peacekeepers dead.
The Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) militia -- created by Muslim radicals to oppose the rule of Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni -- is one of a number of armed groups fighting over the region's rich mineral resources.On Thursday, three members of the local Mai-Mai militia were killed at Kanyihunga, about 50 kilometres (30 miles) north of Lake Edward after they attacked an army post, Captain Mak Hazukay, the regional army spokesman said.Hazukay said five ADF rebels died in Mwalika in Nord Kivu in clashes with the army.The group stands accused of killing hundreds of civilians over the years and of carrying out a deadly attack on UN troops in Beni last December that left 15 peacekeepers dead.
On Thursday, three members of the local Mai-Mai militia were killed at Kanyihunga, about 50 kilometres (30 miles) north of Lake Edward after they attacked an army post, Captain Mak Hazukay, the regional army spokesman said.Hazukay said five ADF rebels died in Mwalika in Nord Kivu in clashes with the army.The group stands accused of killing hundreds of civilians over the years and of carrying out a deadly attack on UN troops in Beni last December that left 15 peacekeepers dead.
Hazukay said five ADF rebels died in Mwalika in Nord Kivu in clashes with the army.The group stands accused of killing hundreds of civilians over the years and of carrying out a deadly attack on UN troops in Beni last December that left 15 peacekeepers dead.
The group stands accused of killing hundreds of civilians over the years and of carrying out a deadly attack on UN troops in Beni last December that left 15 peacekeepers dead.





