Title: Taxes or violence? Armed group in DRC forces one village to choose - The World from PRX
The village of Miriki in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo is partially abandoned because of a tax that a local armed group charges people who live there. Local people say they don’t like paying the tax but note that the armed group that collects it helps the area maintain a semblance of security.
Guava trees, cassava plants, beans and banana trees line the narrow, well-kept road that leads to Miriki, a primary village in this rural area. To get to the village, travelers must pass through Kaghumo, a small community.
The first sign of the area’s trouble is obvious in Kaghumo: About 150 of the roughly 200 homes are abandoned. People left the community because they no longer have free access to Miriki, the village where they once visited markets and conducted business.
For years now, Miriki has been controlled by an armed group that charges an entrance tax. Anyone who doesn’t have a receipt — proof of payment of 1,000 Congolese francs (about 62 cents) each month — isn’t allowed into the village. (Global Press Journal paid the tax to enter the village to interview people there.)
That’s not the only tax. The armed group, known as Mai Mai Mazembe, also claims portions of harvested crops or charges farmers 300 Congolese francs (about 19 cents) as they head to their fields.
In an area where cash is scarce and incomes are low or nonexistent, the taxes are a needling reminder of rural DRC’s instability.
But while many families simply left the village to escape the armed group’s control, some people who stayed say the tax is a necessary method for maintaining consistent, if sometimes tense, peace.
“Truth be told, we abided by the rules just to save our families from starvation,” says Rachel Kanyere, a 38-year-old mother of six.
When Kanyere moved to Miriki in 2013, the FDLR-FOCA, one of the most feared Hutu armed groups of the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda, was active in the area and controlled the village. That group had moved into DRC after a 1994 genocide in Rwanda, during which hundreds of thousands of people were murdered.
Some of the group’s leaders are suspected of fomenting the genocide.
There was heavy fighting when FDLR-FOCA came, Kanyere says, as well as unchecked violence against local people, who say that more than 120 village residents were killed and that 20 women and girls were raped. (Amnesty International, in a 2017 report, noted that 14 people were killed by the FDLR-FOCA in a single day during that time.)
“We were forced to flee our homes, leaving behind our farms and belongings,” Kanyere says.
Sometime between 2015 and 2016, a new alliance formed between armed groups from the Nande, Hunde and Kobo tribes. Calling itself Mai Mai Mazembe, the group formed as part of a larger movement to push the FDLR out of the area and to protect local people from the violence they’d endured under FDLR control. The movement was successful by late 2016, when Mai Mai Mazembe took control of Miriki.
“Mai Mai” is a general term that refers to local armed groups in DRC.
Ferdinand Katembo, president of the civil society in Miriki, confirmed that Mai Mai Mazembe provides an element of safety for local people, in exchange for an array of taxes.
Even though the group sometimes uses violence to collect the tax, Kanyere says she’d rather have Mai Mai Mazembe controlling the village than another group.
“We felt the pull to return to our homes,” she says.
As long as people follow the rules, they’re safe.
“We pay taxes for fear of being killed,” says Paluku Shabani, who owns a slaughterhouse.
If you don’t pay, he says, the only way to escape the wrath of the Mai Mai fighters is to leave town. And if you leave town, he says, you’ll be hungry, because you’ll be far from the fields that feed you.
Failing to follow the rules can have serious consequences.
Charles Kivuya, a taxi driver, says he and a passenger were nearing Miriki when they encountered a roadblock. Mai Mai Mazembe fighters stopped the car, and Kivuya and the passenger paid the tax. The fighters then told Kivuya’s passenger to show his voter’s card, but the passenger didn’t have it.
“A physically gargantuan boy with a long spear got furious with us and told us to turn back and get out of his sight at once,” Kivuya says. “Feeling sick [with] fear, we doubled back and rode away at top speed.”
Katembo, the civil-society president, says the people have no choice but to assent to Mai Mai Mazembe’s control.
“It’s like we live in a jungle, and nothing will change unless our nation gets rid of chaos,” he says.
Ndahayo Sylvestre, GPJ, translated the article from French.
This story originally appeared onGlobal Press Journal, an international news organization that trains and employs local journalists in developing markets.
Sign up for The Top of the World, delivered to your inbox every weekday morning.
The World is a public radio program that crosses borders and time zones to bring home the stories that matter.
Produced by
Thanks to our sponsor
Major funding provided by
©2024The World from PRX
PRX is a 501(c)(3) organization recognized by the IRS: #263347402.

Title: Nyanzale : assassinat d'un chef communautaire hutu
L'AFDC-A va-t-elle quitter l'Union sacrée ?
Le gouvernement souligne l’urgence d’organiser le 2ème recensement général de la population
Nord-Kivu : des personnes non identifiées en provenance du Rwanda signalées à Lubero (alerte)
Kinshasa : Rawbank lance le tournoi de basketball universitaire 3X3 « All Star Game University »
Finance climatique en RDC : Rawbank montre la voie
Finance : l’AFC diversifie encore son actionnariat grâce à l’entrée au capital de Rawbank
Provinces
Nyanzale, province du Nord-Kivu, RD Congo : des troupes de la Monusco interagissant avec la population civile
Un chef communautaire hutu a été assassiné par un groupe armé mardi dans l'Est de la République démocratique du Congo, selon des sources officielle et sécuritaire.
"Le président de la communauté hutue à Nyanzale [province du Nord-Kivu] a été tué ce matin [mardi] par balle. Il quittait Nyanzale pour Goma, il a été stoppé puis tué", a déclaré à l'AFP le représentant du gouverneur.
On ignore l'identité et les mobiles des assaillants qui ont tué le chef communautaire Kajibwami Sebasekera.
Selon le représentant du gouverneur, il pourrait s'agir des membres d'un groupe armé hutu que trois journalistes, dont deux collaborateurs de l'AFP, avaient rencontré en sa présence et par son intermédiaire le 6 mai.
Cette milice aurait été attaquée par l'armée après l'interpellation des journalistes au lendemain de leur rencontre.
Une source sécuritaire consultée par l'AFP avance la piste d'un règlement de comptes mis en œuvre par la faction d'un groupe hutu rwandais, le FDLR.
Le Nord-Kivu est traversé par des tensions entre groupes armés congolais prétendant défendre les communauté hutu, nande et hunde, et deux principaux groupes prétendument étrangers mais présents depuis plus de 20 ans dans la région, les ADF ougandais et le FDLR rwandais.
Lecode à 7 caractères (précédé de « @ »)  à côté du Nomest leCode MediaCongo de l’utilisateur. Par exemple « Jeanne243 @AB25CDF ». Ce code est unique à chaque utilisateur. Il permet de différencier les utilisateurs.Poster un commentaire, réagir  ?Les commentaires et réactions sont postés librement, tout en respectant lesconditions d’utilisationde la plateforme mediacongo.net.  Vous pouvez cliquer sur  2 émojis au maximum.Merci et excellente expérience sur mediacongo.net,  première plateforme congolaiseMediaCongo – Support Utilisateurs
Les plus commentés
PolitiqueL'archibishop Kutino Fernando recommande au Président Félix Tshisekedi de ne pas être complaisant envers son entourage !
PolitiqueSeth Kikuni à Martin Fayulu : "S'il y aura dialogue, ça sera pour rappeler à Félix Tshisekedi en face qu'il est incompétent"
PolitiqueAppel à la cohésion nationale : le trio Kapita-Lisanga-Della pose une condition à Martin Fayulu
Société« 9 camions pleins de militaires Rwandais arrivent à Kibumba au Nord-Kivu » (Société civile)

Ils nous font confiance

Title: Museveni accuses UN, DRC of harbouring ADF rebels | Africanews
Please select your experience
Copy/paste the script below
OTHER WIDGETS
with Agencies
Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni has accused the Government of the Democratic Republic of Congo and the United Nations of harbouring the Uganda Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) rebels, and threatened to “come up with a solution for them.”
Museveni blamed the increasing cases of kidnaps, assassinations, and murder of especially women in the Central part of Uganda, on this the rebel /terrorist group.
“The terrorists of ADF are still in Congo, preserved there by the United Nations, and the Congo Government,” said Museveni while delivering the State of the Nation Address.
The UN, through its Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (UNMISSON) has been engaged in constant battles with remnants of the rebel group, which was flashed out the country over a decade ago.
Over 18000 UN peace keeping troops are currently deployed in the DRC, under MUNUSCO, at a cost, according to reports of about $8.7Billion so far.
The tough talking Museveni said ADF are thriving in the DRC because they are being kept there by the UN and the Congo Government.”
“If however they were to re-enter Uganda, they would be promptly and decisively defeated,” he said, adding that Uganda is nonetheless looking for solution to the rebel group.
“The ADF in Congo will answer for the killings of our people. Even when they are hiding in Congo, their only safety is for them to surrender and seek amnesty. They feel they are safe and the UN is keeping them there, and the DRC government, but we shall get a solution for them.”
Late last year, Ugandan forces the UPDF, raided the DRC and reportedly killed over 100 ADF combatants in eight camps, in airstrikes.
Museveni said in his address, that Uganda managed to defeat the ADF, Joseph Kony’s LRA and other rebel groups by 2007.
He noted however that the remnants of the ADF are still wreaking havoc in Uganda, especially in urban areas, talking advantage of the lack of intelligence infrastructure there.
He said the ADF were responsible for the murder of 7 Muslim Sheiks, as well as Major Muhammad Kiggundu, AIGP Felix Kaweesi, Prosecutor Joan Kagezi and most recently Susan Magara.
The president noted however, that the recent spate of murders of women in the areas of Masaka and Entebbe, as well as kidnaps of women and young children, are being orchestrated by local criminals.
He cited one Muhammad Kiddawalime, who was arrested in the so called Bijambiya attacks in Masaka.
Kiddawalime and one Musa Galiwango, in January escaped custody during a court session, before the former was killed later in April by residents and police during a robbery.
Museveni commended the police officer, Cadet ASP Stephen Twinomigisha , who he said wrestled down the suspect and disabled him.
“With immediate effect I promote him to the next rank,” he said to a cheering audience.
Museveni later after the address decorated Kiddalime’s would-be victim, one Nakyambadde, who alerted neighbours as the assailant broke into her house.
“When the obnoxious Kiddawailme was about to start robbing and raping her, she telephoned neighbours and threw the phone out of the window. When he entered, he didn’t know that she had already alerted people,” he said.
“Some of these criminals are just village thugs, but because there is no mobilization, they become like a big problem.”
Museveni reassured that his government is currently gathering intelligence capacity in towns and on highways to overcome the urban based terrorism, noting, “We are about to round off the building of that capacity.”
The President said, securing towns is still problematic, being too populous, with many buildings and cars.
Some of his advisors, he said, had suggested resuming of roadblocks, but he opposed this method.
“I said no because these will inconvenience people who have nothing to do with the problem.”


Title: Assassinat d'un chef communautaire hutu dans l'est de la RDC
Print
Un chef communautaire hutu a été assassiné par un groupe armé mardi dans l'est de la République démocratique du Congo, selon des sources officielle et sécuritaire.
"Le président de la communauté hutue à Nyanzale (province du Nord-Kivu) a été tué ce matin (mardi) par balle. Il quittait Nyanzale pour Goma, il a été stoppé puis tué", a déclaré à l'AFP le représentant du gouverneur.
On ignore l'identité et les mobiles des assaillants qui ont tué le chef communautaire Kajibwami Sebasekera.
>> Lire aussi :Une vingtaine de civils enlevés dans l'Est de la RDC
Selon le représentant du gouverneur, il pourrait s'agir des membres d'un groupe armé hutu que trois journalistes, dont deux collaborateurs de l'AFP, avaient rencontré en sa présence et par son intermédiaire le 6 mai.
Cette milice aurait été attaquée par l'armée après l'interpellation des journalistes au lendemain de leur rencontre.
Une source sécuritaire consultée par l'AFP avance la piste d'un règlement de comptes mis en œuvre par la faction d'un groupe hutu rwandais, le FDLR.
>> Lire aussi :Libération des deux Britanniques enlevés vendredi en République démocratique du Congo
Le Nord-Kivu est traversé par des tensions entre groupes armés congolais prétendant défendre les communauté hutu, nande et hunde, et deux principaux groupes prétendument étrangers mais présents depuis plus de 20 ans dans la région, les ADF ougandais et le FDLR rwandais.
Avec AFP


Title: M23 crash causes traffic to be held as emergency services deal with accident - Live updates - Surrey Live
The accident is believed to have happened before the Gatwick Airport junction
TheM23has beentemporarily held due to a crashnearGatwick Airport.
Emergency services are dealing with the situation on the M23 southbound between J8 for theM25and J9 for Gatwick Airport.
Surrey Live will bring you all the latest as soon as we get it.
Emergency services have been contacted for more information.
Traffic service Inrix is reporting very slow traffic and long delays following a three car accident.
For all of today's breaking news,visit our news section, or follow us onFacebookorTwitter.
We've createda Facebook groupfor people who live in and travel through the county to keep up to date with what's happening on the roads and trains.
We will keep you informed about the latest news that affects your journey to work or school, as well as at the weekend, whether it is planes out of Heathrow Airport or Gatwick Airport; South Western Railway, Southern or Great Western Railway trains; or traffic on the M25, M23, M3, M4, A3, A24, A31, A25, A22 or one of Surrey's many other roads.
We'll also let you know in advance if there are any roadworks, railway engineering works or closures you should know about.
Join the grouphere.
You can also keep up to date with the latest news from across the county via the freeGet Surreyapp.
You can set up your app to see news and events from your area, and receive notifications for any breaking news.
A SECAmb spokesman said one patient has now been taken to the East Surrey Hospital.
Surrey Police added that the crash had involved three vehicles and one lady had sustained minor injuries.
Traffic conditions have considerably improved on the southbound carriageway, with delays down from 70 minutes to 20.
Here’s what the M23 looks like at the moment just north of the scene of the accident.
One traveller was caught in the traffic just two miles from the airport - hopefully they made it in time.
The remaining lane has been re-opened, but expect delays until at least 4pm while traffic sorts itself out.
Highways England now reports delays of 90 minutes heading south on the M23 due to the accident.
There are also delays of around 15 minutes northbound, likely due to the usual rubbernecking.
South East Coast Ambulance Service has confirmed they are attending to the situation as we speak.
A spokesman said:
We are in attendance following reports of an RTC. We are assessing two patients at the scene. Injuries reported include back pain.”
Travel time is expected to be around 70 minutes due to the M23 crash, Highways England has warned.
Two lanes closed, very slow traffic and delays due to accident, three cars involved on M23 Southbound between J8 M23 (M25 J7) and J9 M23 (Gatwick Airport). Travel time is around 40 minutes.Lanes two and three (of three) are closed heading south towards Gatwick Airport.
We will keep you up to date on this ongoing situation.

Title: No title found


Title: M25 crash and M23 traffic with four mile tailbacks - live updates - Surrey Live
One lane is closed on the M23 northbound following a crash on Thursday (June 21)
There are four mile tailbacks on the M23 approaching the M25 junction.
Travel service Inrix is reporting that one lane was closed at around 3.30pm on Thursday (June 21).
It says: "One lane closed and queueing traffic due to accident, a van and a car involved on M23 Northbound before M25 Junction 7. Tailbacks for four miles.
"Lane one (of three) is closed due to an accident which has occurred before the exit slip road. Affecting traffic trying to join the M25.
We will be keeping you up to date on this developing story.
For all of today's breaking news,visit our news section, or follow us onFacebookorTwitter.
You can also keep up to date with the latest news from across the county via the freeGet Surreyapp.
You can set up your app to see news and events from your area, and receive notifications for any breaking news.
We've createda Facebook groupfor people who live in and travel through the county to keep up to date with what's happening on the roads and trains.
We will keep you informed about the latest news that affects your journey to work or school, as well as at the weekend, whether it is planes out of Heathrow Airport or Gatwick Airport; South Western Railway, Southern or Great Western Railway trains; or traffic on the M25, M23, M3, M4, A3, A24, A31, A25, A22 or one of Surrey's many other roads.
We'll also let you know in advance if there are any roadworks, railway engineering works or closures you should know about.
Join the grouphere.
One lane closed due to broken down vehicle on M3 London bound between J3 A322 (Lightwater / Bagshot) and J2 M25. Traffic is coping well.Lane one (of four) is closed.
Anti-clockwise lanes reopened between J5 and J6 on M25. Travel time of 30 minutes.
All lanes are now open on the#M25anti-clockwise between J6 and J5following the earlier collision. delays of about half an hour remain.pic.twitter.com/fSj8wveiUW
Up to 45 minutes travel time from Gatwick Airport to the M25
Very slow traffic due to earlier accident, a lorry and a car involved on M25 anticlockwise before J5 M26 / A21, congestion on M25 to Clacket Lane Services. All lanes have been re-opened.The vehicles have been moved on from scene and all lanes re-opened after a brief hold of traffic. Re-opened around 16:10.
Severe delays and stationary traffic due to earlier accident, a van and a car involved on M23 Northbound before M25 J7, congestion on M23 to J9 M23 (Gatwick Airport). All lanes have been re-opened.Lane one (of three) was closed due to an accident which has occurred before the exit slip road. Affecting traffic trying to join the M25. Also affecting traffic trying to travel from Gatwick Airport.
Stationary traffic due to accident involving a lorry and a car. All traffic being temporarily held on M25 anticlockwise before J5 M26 / A21, congestion to Clacket Lane Services.All traffic has been held for an accident prior to J5.
Queueing traffic due to people slowing to look at accident on the opposite side on M23 Southbound at M25 J7.An accident has occurred on the Northbound carriageway of the M23 just before the exit slip road.
One lane closed, queueing traffic and long delays due to accident, a van and a car involved on M23 Northbound before M25 J7, congestion on M23 to J9 M23 (Gatwick Airport). Travel time is around 50 minutes.Lane one (of three) is closed due to an accident which has occurred before the exit slip road. Affecting traffic trying to join the M25.
Traffic easing on A22 Southbound at M25 J6 / B2235 (Godstone). However M25 clockwise lane closed on entry slip road, slow traffic due to broken down vehicle at J6.
Lane one (of two) is closed for a breakdown. Affecting the A22 southbound as traffic is building up on the roundabout junction.
M25 clockwise lane closed on entry slip road, slow traffic due to broken down vehicle at J6 A22 / B2235 (Godstone).Lane one (of two) is closed for a breakdown. Affecting the A22 southbound as traffic is building up on the roundabout junction.
There is now a breakdown on the M25 entry slip road. Traffic was held to relieve the delays on the M25 and the A22 roundabout following tree cutting on the A22.
Queueing traffic on A22 in both directions at M25 J6 / B2235 (Godstone), congestion on A22 Godstone Road to Wapses Lodge Roundabout and on A22 to Naggs Hall Roundabout. In the roadworks area. All lanes have been re-opened.
Queueing traffic due to all traffic being temporarily held on A22 in both directions at M25 J6 / B2235 (Godstone), congestion on A22 Godstone Road to Wapses Lodge Roundabout and on A22 to Naggs Hall Roundabout.Traffic has been held on the A22 to help relieve the delays on the M25 following tree cutting which had a lane closed.
We understand the workmen involved in the roadworks and hedge cutting are preparing to leave.
Drivers have warned others in the area to avoid the area if they can.
One road user said:
It’s been an hour now, I still haven’t moved. It’s bumper to bumper traffic.
Queueing traffic on M25 anticlockwise between J7 M23 and J6 A22 / B2235 (Godstone).Due to the problems on the A22.
Slow traffic on M23 Southbound around J9 M23 (Gatwick Airport), congestion on M23 to M25 J7. In the roadworks area. Travel time is around 15 minutes.
We will keep you posted on all the latest on this developing story.

Title: Civil war in DRC tops the list of the world’s most neglected crises
Encouraged by the drop, investors will closely watch the data to be released later this week
To address the industry-wide problem, organisations need to collaborate and share intelligence
Zimbabwe Exemption Permit waiver letters now to be sent by email
Law enforcement agencies are expected to come under sharp scrutiny due to the surge of violent crime in SA
Shareholder needs R2.2bn before it can recognise contributions from company in its books
Producer price inflation has decreased markedly from 2023’s average of 6.7% and is forecast to average close to 4% in 2024
Remittance inflows to Africa have doubled in past decade
Tarek Obaid and Patrick Mahony sentenced to jail and ordered to pay back more than $1.75bn
Springbok scrumhalf puts fringe defenders and disappointment in the rear-view mirror
Japanese carmaker opts for visual evolution of the outgoing model
Nairobi — Six of the world’s 10 most neglected crises are in Africa, where conflict has uprooted millions of people, the Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC) said on Thursday. The council attributed the continent’s dominance in this regard to a lack of media attention, aid and political will.
The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), where years of civil war have led more than five-million people to flee their homes, topped the NRC’s annual list this year. South Sudan, Burundi, Ethiopia, Central African Republic and Nigeria also featured.
NRC secretary-general Jan Egeland said that while Syria was the bloodiest war in the world with millions displaced over the last eight years, it was not considered to be among the most neglected crises as it was receiving global attention.
Conflicts in Africa, he said, were viewed differently.
"Many displaced from these countries do not end up as refugees in the Mediterranean, and are not visible for us in the north — so these crises get too little diplom...Subscribe now to unlock this article.Support BusinessLIVE’s award-winning journalism forR129per month(digital access only).There’s never been a more important time to support independent journalism in SA. Our subscription packages now offer anad-free experiencefor readers.SubscribeSign inCancel anytime.Questions? Emailhelpdesk@businesslive.co.zaor call0860 52 52 00. Got a subscription voucher?Redeem it now.Would you like to comment on this article?Sign up (it's quick and free) or sign in now.SIGN UPSIGN INPlease read ourComment Policybefore commenting.
Nairobi — Six of the world’s 10 most neglected crises are in Africa, where conflict has uprooted millions of people, the Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC) said on Thursday. The council attributed the continent’s dominance in this regard to a lack of media attention, aid and political will.
The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), where years of civil war have led more than five-million people to flee their homes, topped the NRC’s annual list this year. South Sudan, Burundi, Ethiopia, Central African Republic and Nigeria also featured.
NRC secretary-general Jan Egeland said that while Syria was the bloodiest war in the world with millions displaced over the last eight years, it was not considered to be among the most neglected crises as it was receiving global attention.
Conflicts in Africa, he said, were viewed differently.
"Many displaced from these countries do not end up as refugees in the Mediterranean, and are not visible for us in the north — so these crises get too little diplom...
Support BusinessLIVE’s award-winning journalism forR129per month(digital access only).
There’s never been a more important time to support independent journalism in SA. Our subscription packages now offer anad-free experiencefor readers.
Cancel anytime.
Questions? Emailhelpdesk@businesslive.co.zaor call0860 52 52 00. Got a subscription voucher?Redeem it now.
Would you like to comment on this article?Sign up (it's quick and free) or sign in now.
Please read ourComment Policybefore commenting.
Published by Arena Holdings and distributed with the Financial Mail on the last Thursday of every month except December and January.
© 2024 Arena Holdings. All rights reserved.
Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy.

Title: 20 kidnapped in eastern DR Congo 'since the weekend'
GOMA:Around 20 civilians have been kidnapped since the weekend in the eastern Democratic Republic of Congo, a stronghold of multiple armed groups, officials said Wednesday.The kidnappings are understood to have begun on Friday, some 75km north of Goma, the capital of North Kivu province."They have been taken between last weekend and today in different locations," said Jason Ntawiha, an official in the town of Rutshuru."The kidnappers are demanding ransoms to free their hostages. Families have begun to organise themselves."We are putting strategies in place to prevent these criminals from doing their dirty work."A local civil society group has called for a peaceful march on Thursday to protest against the kidnappings.Armed groups, which claim to defend Congolese communities, are fighting for control of territorial and natural resources in North Kivu, which has seen a string of deadly clashes in recent months.Eastern DRC has been wracked by violence since the mid-1990s.The Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) militia – created by Muslim radicals to oppose the rule of Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni – is one of a number of armed groups fighting over the region's rich mineral resources.— AFP
46050 Petaling Jaya, Selangor,
Malaysia
Tel: +603-7784 6688
Fax: +603-7785 2624 / +603-7785 2625

Title: Rochdale  News | News Headlines | Manchester Airport confirms charges for dropping-off - Rochdale Online 
You are Here:Home»News»News Headlines» Manchester Airport confirms charges for dropping-off
Date published:15 June 2018
Manchester Airport
Manchester Airport has confirmed plans to charge £3 for five minutes and £4 for 10 minutes for dropping-off directly outside the terminal buildings - and airport station.
https://www.rochdaleonline.co.uk/news-features/2/news-headlines/117315/manchester-airport-scrapping-its-free-dropoff-lanes
There is no change to arrangements for picking people up, with those collecting passengers asked to park in the car parks at each terminal (£4 for 30 minutes).
Blue Badge holders will be able to drop-off outside the terminals free of charge.
Non-Blue Badge holders who have booked special assistance can use the free drop-off site, where there will be a dedicated help point to communicate with the airport’s assistance provider OCS. All buses travelling to and from the terminals from this location are wheelchair accessible.
A scheme for people living near to the airport who use its Ground Transport Interchange to travel in and out of Manchester and surrounding areas has also been developed, following discussions with stakeholders in these communities. It allows people in certain postcodes to apply for a permit, giving them access to the station free of charge for an annual fee of £30. The postcodes covered are M22 0, M22 1, M22 4, M22 5, M22 8, M22 9, M23 0, M23 1, M23 2, M23 9, SK9 4, SK9 5, WA15 0, WA15 7, WA15 8, WA16 6, WA16 7.
A discount scheme will also be set up for commercial private hire operators who are frequent users of the airport. The scheme already exists for pick-up within car parks and will now offer discounted access to the forecourts, for drop-off.
Tricia Williams, COO of Manchester Airport, said: “We have listened carefully to issues raised by passengers since announcing our plans and have been able to respond to many of the concerns raised.
“We will announce any further details, including the exact date the system will be introduced, at the earliest opportunity.”
Proceeds from the forecourt management scheme will go into a new public transport fund being set up by the airport. It is understood this will be used to support measures to improve access to the site for employment opportunities as well as passengers using public transport. The airport will be working in partnership with Cheshire East Council, the Greater Manchester Combined Authority and Transport for Greater Manchester to administer the fund.
Former Rochdale councillor, Neil Butterworth Councillor Neil Butterworth called the plan “money-grabbing”when it was first revealed.
https://www.rochdaleonline.co.uk/news-features/2/news-headlines/117358/councillor-neil-butterworth-hits-out-at-%E2%80%9Cmoneygrabbing%E2%80%9D-manchester-airport
Reuse this content
Do you have a story for us?
Let us know by emailingnews@rochdaleonline.co.ukAll contact will be treated in confidence.
To contact the Rochdale Online  news desk, emailnews@rochdaleonline.co.ukor visit ournews submission page.
To get the latest news on your desktop or mobile, follow Rochdale Online  onTwitterandFacebook.
Hopwood Hall College and University Centre has officially begun enrolling for the new academic year – and people of all ages are invited to come along.The college – which has...
As autumn breezes through Rochdale, the town is set to come alive with the lively spirit of history and culture.
...we have a small favour to ask; would you support Rochdale Online and join other residents making a contribution, from just £3 per month?
Rochdale Online offers completely independent local journalism with free access. 
	If you enjoy the independent news and other free services we offer (event listings and free community websites for example), 
	please consider supporting us financially and help Rochdale Online to continue to provide local engaging content for years to come.  Thank you.
Support Rochdale Online
Home Page|Contact Us|Complaints|Terms & Conditions|Newsletter|Support Us|Our use of cookies
© Rochdale Online  - all rights reserved.
© Rochdale Online  - all rights reserved.
© Rochdale Online  - all rights reserved.

Title: M23 spillage and M25 traffic and other breaking and travel news, June 22 - Surrey Live
Police officers have cordoned off the area around a smashed up car which collided into the central reservation
Follow this live blog for all news regarding traffic building up, road closures, train disruptions or flight cancellations.
We will be keeping you up to date until 9am, so keep an eye on things here for all your travel and weather.
For all of today's breaking news,visit our news section, or follow us onFacebookorTwitter.
You can also keep up to date with the latest news from across the county via the freeGet Surreyapp.
You can set up your app to see news and events from your area, and receive notifications for any breaking news.
We've createda Facebook groupfor people who live in and travel through the county to keep up to date with what's happening on the roads and trains.
We will keep you informed about the latest news that affects your journey to work or school, as well as at the weekend, whether it is planes out of Heathrow Airport or Gatwick Airport; South Western Railway, Southern or Great Western Railway trains; or traffic on the M25, M23, M3, M4, A3, A24, A31, A25, A22 or one of Surrey's many other roads.
We'll also let you know in advance if there are any roadworks, railway engineering works or closures you should know about.
Join the grouphere.
That’s it for now folks, we’ll be back later with traffic and travel updates to help your commute home.
One lane remains closed and there is slow traffic due to a spillage and earlier broken down vehicle on M23 Northbound between J9 M23 (Gatwick Airport) and M25 J7.
Congestion is currently backing on M23 to J10 A2011 / A264 (Crawley) and travel time is around 25 minutes.Recovery of the vehicle has been completed however the lane is still closed.
Cameras still show a large spillage close to where the vehicle was with traffic officers covering it with sand however, it is still unknown what the spillage is.
Slow traffic due to accident, now on the hard shoulder on M25 anticlockwise between J11 A317 (Chertsey) and J10 A3 (WisleyInterchange).Unrelated to the break down at J10. A number of vehicles parked up on hard shoulder. The ambulance has now left the scene.
One lane is closed and there’s slow traffic due to spillage and broken down vehicle on M23 Northbound between J9 M23 (Gatwick Airport) and M25 J7, congestion to J10 A2011 / A264 (Crawley).
Travel time is around 25 minutes.Cameras show a large spillage close to the vehicle with traffic officers covering it with sand however, it is unknown what the spillage is at this point.
There is slow traffic due to accident, now on the hard shoulder on M25 anticlockwise between J11 A317 (Chertsey) and J10 A3 (WisleyInterchange).A number of vehicles including an ambulance is parked up on hard shoulder.
According to Highways England, a camper van has lost its ‘prop shaft’ on the M23 northbound between J9 and J8, causing delays.
There is slow traffic and a lane is closed on an exit slip road due to broken down vehicle on M25 anticlockwise at J10 A3 (WisleyInterchange).Lane one (of two) is closed at the bottom of the exit as you head up to the roundabout.
One police officer is still on the scene recovering the incident however the earlier lane closures have reportedly been lifted.
Police officers have cordoned off lanes one and two and signs warning drivers to slow down on approach are in place.
Traffic is reportedly coping well however this is likely to change once rush hour is underway.
A smashed up car which has collided with the central reservation has closed two lanes between A244 Copsem Lane (EsherCommon) and A245 Portsmouth Road (Painshill).
Good morningSurrey Livereaders,
Two lanes on the A3 southbound are currently closed and police officers are at the scene.
Stay tuned for updates.

Title: Alla Dieng : "Le M23 ne doit pas être un outil pour les candidats à la présidentielle" - adakar.com


Title: Uganda overwhelmed as refugees hit 317,000 - 24Tanzania.com
Uganda government is overwhelmed by the influx of refugees as the number of refugees in the country has reached 317000.State Minister in the Office of prime minister for Disaster and Preparedness Musa Ecweru briefing the press at Media Centre on the influx and settlement of new Refugees from South Sudan and the DRC.This was revealed yesterday at the Media Centre in Kampala by the disaster preparedness minister Musa Ecweru who indicated that most of the refugees are coming from DRC Congo and South Sudan.Ecweru said other refugees are from Somalia, Kenya, Tanzania, Burundi and Rwanda.Since the outbreak of the South Sudan war in mid December last year, 50332 refugees have settled in Adjumani, 8755 are in Arua and 7162 are in Kiryandongo refugee settlement.Regarding refugees from DR Congo, the minister said that even after cease fire agreement between M23 rebels and the DR government; refugees have continued to come to Uganda.In July 2013, 5000 persons were expelled out of Tanzania and entered Uganda through Kikagati and Mutukula boarder posts. The Office of the Prime Minister (OPM) together with the United Nations relocated 4260 of the 5000 at Sango Bay camp.The OPM is planning to issue identity cards to all the Sango Bay camp inhabitants for improve security and better camp management.Ecweru said government needs sh22b to facilitate permanent settlement of 4024 of the expellees and repatriation of 500 non-Ugandans.The minister said from the verifications they done so far about these expellees, majority of them (4024) are Ugandans who migrated to Tanzania in the early 1960s. Of the remaining number, 52 are Rwandese, 40 are Burundians, and 5 are Tanzanians.Concerning the refugees from South Sudan, Ecweru said government has just discovered that a big number of refugees from South Sudan fled with a lot of money and are using it to rent houses in various towns in Northern Uganda.“We have already directed local authorities to identify the refugees who are not in the camps to be registered,” Ecweru said.The minister said given the high influx of the refugees, government is seeking sh210b to be able to look after all the refugees in the next six months.In looking after these refugees, Ecweru said, government is grappling with many challenges which include poor sanitation and hygiene, inadequate water supply, old fleet of OPM vehicles used, negative attitude by host communities towards new arrivals, harassment of service providers by refugees, and poor road network in settlements among others.By Moses Mulondo, The New Vision
State Minister in the Office of prime minister for Disaster and Preparedness Musa Ecweru briefing the press at Media Centre on the influx and settlement of new Refugees from South Sudan and the DRC.
This was revealed yesterday at the Media Centre in Kampala by the disaster preparedness minister Musa Ecweru who indicated that most of the refugees are coming from DRC Congo and South Sudan.
Ecweru said other refugees are from Somalia, Kenya, Tanzania, Burundi and Rwanda.
Since the outbreak of the South Sudan war in mid December last year, 50332 refugees have settled in Adjumani, 8755 are in Arua and 7162 are in Kiryandongo refugee settlement.
Regarding refugees from DR Congo, the minister said that even after cease fire agreement between M23 rebels and the DR government; refugees have continued to come to Uganda.
In July 2013, 5000 persons were expelled out of Tanzania and entered Uganda through Kikagati and Mutukula boarder posts. The Office of the Prime Minister (OPM) together with the United Nations relocated 4260 of the 5000 at Sango Bay camp.
The OPM is planning to issue identity cards to all the Sango Bay camp inhabitants for improve security and better camp management.
Ecweru said government needs sh22b to facilitate permanent settlement of 4024 of the expellees and repatriation of 500 non-Ugandans.
The minister said from the verifications they done so far about these expellees, majority of them (4024) are Ugandans who migrated to Tanzania in the early 1960s. Of the remaining number, 52 are Rwandese, 40 are Burundians, and 5 are Tanzanians.
Concerning the refugees from South Sudan, Ecweru said government has just discovered that a big number of refugees from South Sudan fled with a lot of money and are using it to rent houses in various towns in Northern Uganda.
“We have already directed local authorities to identify the refugees who are not in the camps to be registered,” Ecweru said.
The minister said given the high influx of the refugees, government is seeking sh210b to be able to look after all the refugees in the next six months.
In looking after these refugees, Ecweru said, government is grappling with many challenges which include poor sanitation and hygiene, inadequate water supply, old fleet of OPM vehicles used, negative attitude by host communities towards new arrivals, harassment of service providers by refugees, and poor road network in settlements among others.
By Moses Mulondo, The New Vision
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*

Name
Email
Website


This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.Learn how your comment data is processed.

Title: Uganda to deal with all who threaten violence, following MP's assassination | Africanews
Please select your experience
Copy/paste the script below
OTHER WIDGETS
Uganda’s president, Yoweri Museveni has visited the scene where a legislator was gunned down on Friday night, and prescribed several solutions for the persistent security problems that have dogged the country.
Ibrahim Abiriga, the legislator for Arua Municipality in Northern Uganda was shot dead last night a few metres from his home in Kawanda, on the outskirts of the capital Kampala.
Abiriga was a controversial legislator, known for always yellow attire from a cap on the head to the shoes on his feet. He was also one of the most vocal supporters of the age limit amendments that were the source of heated debate and physical fights in parliament last year.
Abiriga was killed in a manner that has been used to kill other prominent state officials including the Assistant Inspector General of Police, Andrew Felix Kaweesi, the state prosecutor, Joan Kagezi, the UPDF’s Major Kiggundu and several Muslim clerics over the past three years.
On inspection of the crime, the president pointed several loopholes that criminals had taken advantage of to kill Abiriga, whom he described as ‘a dedicated supporter and patriotic Ugandan’.
The president said vigilance could have prevented the ‘senseless killing’ of the legislator, since the criminals were riding a numberless motorcycle, and had their heads covered with helmets even when they were standing in one place.
‘‘These were signs that should have led to suspicion. Had the locals rang the police, this crime could have been prevented. Therefore, please, report everything that is suspicious and do so promptly,’‘ the president said.
These were signs that should have led to suspicion. Had the locals rang the police, this crime could have been prevented. Therefore, please, report everything that is suspicious and do so promptly.
— Yoweri K Museveni (@KagutaMuseveni)8 juin 2018
He then reiterated the need for CCTV cameras, which he said will be installed in ‘a few months’, that will make the work of identifying criminals faster. The president has in the past called for the installation of such cameras and capturing of Ugandans’ DNA and palm prints to aid in the fight against crime.
He then gave directives to several agencies of government, to facilitate the restoration of calm and security in a populace that is living in fear.
‘‘I have also observed creeping indiscipline on radios. People threaten violence on air and just get away with it. The Minister of Information must deal with this.’‘
During the state of the nation address delivered on Thursday, the president blamed the assassination of state officials on the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) rebel group which he said is [supported](<http://www.africanews.com/2018/06/06/museveni-accuses-un-drc-of-harbouring-adf-rebels/>) by the United Nations and Congolese government.


Title: Le M23 et le "candidat" Macky Sall - adakar.com


Title: Ugandan general arrested over police spokesman’s killing – Medafrica Times
June 14, 2018Khalid Al MouahidiZoom0
Former Ugandan police chief, General Kale Kayihura has been arrested for questioning, the military spokesperson has confirmed.
General Kale Kayihura was taken into custody on Wednesday morning the military said.
According to army spokesman Brig Richard Karemire, General Kayihura, still a serving soldier of Uganda Peoples’ Defence Forces was asked to report to the military headquarters.
He was arrested on suspicion of killing a senior police official, Andrew Felix Kaweesi, a state-owned newspaper said on Thursday.
Kaweesi was killed along with his driver and bodyguard near his home in the capital Kampala in March 2017 as they drove to work.
The late Kaweesi rose to prominence following his coordination of police response to protests from opposition political parties after the 2011 presidential election. There have been many killings in similar fashions yet to be investigated properly.
Initially, the death of this iconic figure in the Ugandan Police was quickly attributed to the ADF ragtag rebel outfit allegedly operating in Eastern DRC.
The arrested General was fired by President Yoweri Museveni in March this year after nearly 13 years at the helm of the police force. He was once seen as one of the most powerful military officers in the East African nation.
Museveni has blamed the police for failing to curb rising insecurity in the country including murders and kidnappings.
Angola to join former colonies of Britain, France
2026 World Cup: Saudi Stand, an Arab & Islamic Betrayal
South Africa’s Johann Rupert dethrones Aliko Dangote as the continent’s richest man
Spain agrees with Mauritania, Gambia, Senegal on joint action to combat illegal migration
Accused of corruption, South Africa’s Justice Minister urged to resign
Rwanda: Davis Manzi’s request for parole rejected
Australia’s Worley leads FEED for two major green ammonia plants in Morocco
Copyright © 2024 | WordPress Theme byMH Themes

Title: Democratic Republic of Congo Key Message Update, May 2018 - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWeb
DR Congo
Key Messages
Staple foods, including maize, peanuts and pulses, from agricultural season B in the northeast and center-east of DRC are ready to harvest. Above-average rainfall in the east of the country (Tanganyika, South Kivu and North Kivu) has caused flooding and landslides that in some areas blocked roads and disrupted agriculture. As a result, it is expected that agricultural production may be below normal in these affected areas.
In ex-Katanga, the usual increase in prices for staple goods, particularly maize flour, that occurs every first trimester of the year was averted this year due to the flow of imported food from Zambia that has supplied markets in Katanga and the Kasai region. This situation has negatively affected local producers, who normally sell at higher prices this time of year, but who are receiving lower prices for their production this year because of the higher than normal supply in the markets.
At the same time, prices for cassava flour have decreased 6 and 50 percent respectively in Bukavu and Lubumbashi markets. On the other hand, in Kalemie where flooding has affected the ability of farmers to dry cassava, prices for cassava flour remains high, rising by 43 percent from April to May. Markets in Kabalo and Uvira are also experiencing similar trends in prices.
The continuing activity of armed groups, especially ADF/NALU in Beni and Luburo territories in North Kivu, and the response by FARDC that has begun military operations in this area, has created an unprecedented environment of widespread insecurity. This situation that is taking place amid the main activities of the 2018 agricultural Season A will have negative effects on the overall level of agricultural production in this normally surplus producing area for staple crops.
DR Congo+ 3 more
DR Congo
DR Congo
DR Congo+ 7 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Afropop Worldwide | This Is Congo
Tickets and more information.
This is Congoprovides an immersive and unfiltered look into Africa’s longest continuing conflict and those who are surviving within it. By following four compelling characters — a whistleblower, a patriotic military commander, a mineral dealer and a displaced tailor — the film offers viewers a truly Congolese perspective on the problems that plague this lushly beautiful nation. Colonel ‘Kasongo’, Mamadou Ndala, Mama Romance and Hakiza Nyantaba exemplify the unique resilience of a people who have lived and died through the generations due to the cycle of brutality generated by this conflict. Though their paths never physically cross, the ongoing conflict reverberates across all of their lives.
WhenThis is Congobegins in 2012, Rwandan and Ugandan-backed M23 rebels have begun massing in the North Kivu region of Congo, threatening peace and stability. As the film progresses, we watch as the rebellion mounts in intensity and witness its effects on the film’s four major characters firsthand, while flashing back to key moments in Congo’s history. By the film’s conclusion, three years later,This is Congohas documented this latest cycle of violence from beginning to end and thoroughly unpacked the legacies of colonialism, resource exploitation and genocide that helped make the Congo what it is today.
Friday, June 29th, 7:00pm: Director Daniel McCabe and editor Alyse Ardell Spiegel.
Saturday, June 30th, 7:00pm: Congolese Independence themed panel with director Daniel McCabe and editor Alyse Ardell Spiegel, and Lubangi Muniaia, of Tabilulu Productions and a Congolese music, art and culture expert, followed by a reception.
Sunday, July 1st, 4:30pm: Director Daniel McCabe, editor Alyse Ardell Spiegel, and Queen Diambi Kabatusuila of Kasai Kingdom of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Monday, July 2nd, 7:00pm: Patrice Lumumba themed panel in honor of his birthday (July 2nd, 1925-January 17th, 1961) with Milton Allimadi, Blackstar News, Dr Ron Daniels, Pan African Unity Dialogue, and Bibiane Tshefu, Friends of the Congo. This program is co-sponsored by Friends of the Congo, Black Star News and Pan African Unity Dialogue.
Thursday, July 5th, 7:00pm: Helen Epstein, Bard College and Human Rights Watch and Milton Allimadi, Ugandan Analyst, Black Star News.
In honor of the 58th anniversary of the Democratic Republic of Congo's Independence (June 30th, 1960).
The Friends of the Congo (FOTC)is a 501 (c) (3) tax exempt an advocacy organization based in Washington, DC. The FOTC was established in 2004 to work in partnership with Congolese to bring about peaceful and lasting change in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), formerly Zaire.
Official Selection in 2017The Venice Film Festival, IDFA, DOC NYC and the Human Rights Watch Film Festival.

Title: Accueil - Agence de Presse Africaine | APAnews - Agence de Presse Africaine
En visite officielle à Dakar, le président du gouvernement espagnol, Pedro Sánchez, et le chef de l’Etat sénégalais, Bassirou Diomaye Faye, ont souligné, lors d’une conférence de presse commune, l’importance d’approfondir les relations bilatérales dans des domaines clés comme l’économie, l’immigration, la sécurité régionale, et…
L’ancien président du Niger est détenu depuis sa chute en juillet 2023. Le président renversé Mohamed Bazoum a été entendu, hier mercredi 28 août 2024,…
Après la Mauritanie et la Gambie, le Premier ministre espagnol Pedro Sánchez poursuit son voyage en Afrique par une visite au Sénégal, dans le but de renforcer la coopération contre la migration clandestine vers l’Europe et en faveur d’une migration régulée.
Le président du Faso, le Capitaine Ibrahim Traoré n’ira plus en République populaire de Chine où il devait participer au Forum sur la coopération sino-africaine (FOCAC), prévu du 04 au 06 septembre à Pékin.
La diplomatie sénégalaise se dit prête à contribuer à la recherche de « solutions pacifiques » aux conflits en cours dans le monde, notamment en…
Le Maroc a lancé deux nanosatellites dont les données recueillies seront mises à la disposition des universités nationales. Ils ont étés lancés par le Falcon…
Le ministre de l’Énergie, Adebayo Adelabu, a déclaré aux journalistes mardi, à…
Le président de la transition du Mali, le Colonel Assimi Goïta, se…
Le président Cyril Ramaphosa a demandé à la ministre sud-africaine de la justice, Thembi Simelane, de s’expliquer sur les allégations de corruption qui la lient au fameux scandale de la VBS Mutual Bank.
La première séance parlementaire régionale en Ouganda a débuté le 28 août 2024 dans la ville de Gulu, dans le nord du pays. Les sessions de proximité sont sensées rapprocher le parlement du peuple.
L’une des figures influentes du régime de Macky Sall, Aminata Touré bénéficie d’une nouvelle ascension politique sous les nouveaux dirigeants sénégalais. Elle est nommée Haut…
L’ajout d’Abdellatif Mekki à la liste des candidats pourrait redistribuer les cartes dans la course présidentielle.
La Fédération Malienne de Football (FEMAFOOT) a annoncé, ce mercredi 28 août 2024, la nomination de Tom Saintfiet au poste de sélectionneur des Aigles du Mali. Cette décision intervient à un moment important, à quelques jours seulement du début des éliminatoires de la Coupe d’Afrique des Nations (CAN) 2025. À la veille d’un match important contre le Mozambique.
Le projet va également toucher les veuves des chauffeurs de convoi de ravitaillement des zones sous contrôle jihadiste.
En visite officielle à Dakar, le président du gouvernement espagnol, Pedro Sánchez, et le chef de l’Etat sénégalais, Bassirou Diomaye Faye, ont souligné, lors d’une conférence de presse commune, l’importance d’approfondir les relations bilatérales dans des domaines clés comme l’économie, l’immigration, la sécurité régionale, et…
Le docteur Faustine Englebert Ndugulile prendra la tête de l’Organisation mondiale de la santé (OMS) pour la région africaine. Succédant à la Botswanaise Matshidiso Moeti, il s’est engagé à travailler  pour faire progresser la santé des populations africaines.
L’initiative lancée par l’ICESCO est une réponse explicite et proactive aux défis complexes auxquels est confrontée l’agriculture dans le monde islamique.
En réponse à la déclaration de l’état de catastrophe nationale émise par le gouvernement de transition du Mali le 23 août 2024, les États-Unis, par l’intermédiaire de leur ambassade à Bamako et de l’Agence des États-Unis pour le développement international (USAID), ont déployé une assistance humanitaire urgente pour venir en aide aux milliers de Maliens touchés par les récentes inondations dévastatrices.
Plus de 6.000 personnels d’établissements scolaires privés de Côte d’Ivoire ont subi une formation, dans le cadre du renforcement de leurs capacités, en vue du relèvement du niveau des apprenants.
Ce portail d’actualité est une agrégation de l’ensemble de ses sites de news alimentés en temps réel par un réseau de correspondants.
Basés dans chaque pays d’Afrique et dans chacune des plus grandes capitales d’Europe, d’Asie ou des Amériques.

Adresse:Résidence AYA 3ème étage A24, Rue MZ81X96 Dakar, Sénégal
Tapez ci-dessus et appuyez surEnterpour rechercher. Appuyez surEscpour annuler.

Title: Accueil - Agence de Presse Africaine | APAnews - Agence de Presse Africaine
En visite officielle à Dakar, le président du gouvernement espagnol, Pedro Sánchez, et le chef de l’Etat sénégalais, Bassirou Diomaye Faye, ont souligné, lors d’une conférence de presse commune, l’importance d’approfondir les relations bilatérales dans des domaines clés comme l’économie, l’immigration, la sécurité régionale, et…
L’ancien président du Niger est détenu depuis sa chute en juillet 2023. Le président renversé Mohamed Bazoum a été entendu, hier mercredi 28 août 2024,…
Après la Mauritanie et la Gambie, le Premier ministre espagnol Pedro Sánchez poursuit son voyage en Afrique par une visite au Sénégal, dans le but de renforcer la coopération contre la migration clandestine vers l’Europe et en faveur d’une migration régulée.
Le président du Faso, le Capitaine Ibrahim Traoré n’ira plus en République populaire de Chine où il devait participer au Forum sur la coopération sino-africaine (FOCAC), prévu du 04 au 06 septembre à Pékin.
La diplomatie sénégalaise se dit prête à contribuer à la recherche de « solutions pacifiques » aux conflits en cours dans le monde, notamment en…
Le Maroc a lancé deux nanosatellites dont les données recueillies seront mises à la disposition des universités nationales. Ils ont étés lancés par le Falcon…
Le ministre de l’Énergie, Adebayo Adelabu, a déclaré aux journalistes mardi, à…
Le président de la transition du Mali, le Colonel Assimi Goïta, se…
Le président Cyril Ramaphosa a demandé à la ministre sud-africaine de la justice, Thembi Simelane, de s’expliquer sur les allégations de corruption qui la lient au fameux scandale de la VBS Mutual Bank.
La première séance parlementaire régionale en Ouganda a débuté le 28 août 2024 dans la ville de Gulu, dans le nord du pays. Les sessions de proximité sont sensées rapprocher le parlement du peuple.
L’une des figures influentes du régime de Macky Sall, Aminata Touré bénéficie d’une nouvelle ascension politique sous les nouveaux dirigeants sénégalais. Elle est nommée Haut…
L’ajout d’Abdellatif Mekki à la liste des candidats pourrait redistribuer les cartes dans la course présidentielle.
La Fédération Malienne de Football (FEMAFOOT) a annoncé, ce mercredi 28 août 2024, la nomination de Tom Saintfiet au poste de sélectionneur des Aigles du Mali. Cette décision intervient à un moment important, à quelques jours seulement du début des éliminatoires de la Coupe d’Afrique des Nations (CAN) 2025. À la veille d’un match important contre le Mozambique.
Le projet va également toucher les veuves des chauffeurs de convoi de ravitaillement des zones sous contrôle jihadiste.
En visite officielle à Dakar, le président du gouvernement espagnol, Pedro Sánchez, et le chef de l’Etat sénégalais, Bassirou Diomaye Faye, ont souligné, lors d’une conférence de presse commune, l’importance d’approfondir les relations bilatérales dans des domaines clés comme l’économie, l’immigration, la sécurité régionale, et…
Le docteur Faustine Englebert Ndugulile prendra la tête de l’Organisation mondiale de la santé (OMS) pour la région africaine. Succédant à la Botswanaise Matshidiso Moeti, il s’est engagé à travailler  pour faire progresser la santé des populations africaines.
L’initiative lancée par l’ICESCO est une réponse explicite et proactive aux défis complexes auxquels est confrontée l’agriculture dans le monde islamique.
En réponse à la déclaration de l’état de catastrophe nationale émise par le gouvernement de transition du Mali le 23 août 2024, les États-Unis, par l’intermédiaire de leur ambassade à Bamako et de l’Agence des États-Unis pour le développement international (USAID), ont déployé une assistance humanitaire urgente pour venir en aide aux milliers de Maliens touchés par les récentes inondations dévastatrices.
Plus de 6.000 personnels d’établissements scolaires privés de Côte d’Ivoire ont subi une formation, dans le cadre du renforcement de leurs capacités, en vue du relèvement du niveau des apprenants.
Ce portail d’actualité est une agrégation de l’ensemble de ses sites de news alimentés en temps réel par un réseau de correspondants.
Basés dans chaque pays d’Afrique et dans chacune des plus grandes capitales d’Europe, d’Asie ou des Amériques.

Adresse:Résidence AYA 3ème étage A24, Rue MZ81X96 Dakar, Sénégal
Tapez ci-dessus et appuyez surEnterpour rechercher. Appuyez surEscpour annuler.

Title: Accueil - Agence de Presse Africaine | APAnews - Agence de Presse Africaine
En visite officielle à Dakar, le président du gouvernement espagnol, Pedro Sánchez, et le chef de l’Etat sénégalais, Bassirou Diomaye Faye, ont souligné, lors d’une conférence de presse commune, l’importance d’approfondir les relations bilatérales dans des domaines clés comme l’économie, l’immigration, la sécurité régionale, et…
L’ancien président du Niger est détenu depuis sa chute en juillet 2023. Le président renversé Mohamed Bazoum a été entendu, hier mercredi 28 août 2024,…
Après la Mauritanie et la Gambie, le Premier ministre espagnol Pedro Sánchez poursuit son voyage en Afrique par une visite au Sénégal, dans le but de renforcer la coopération contre la migration clandestine vers l’Europe et en faveur d’une migration régulée.
Le président du Faso, le Capitaine Ibrahim Traoré n’ira plus en République populaire de Chine où il devait participer au Forum sur la coopération sino-africaine (FOCAC), prévu du 04 au 06 septembre à Pékin.
La diplomatie sénégalaise se dit prête à contribuer à la recherche de « solutions pacifiques » aux conflits en cours dans le monde, notamment en…
Le Maroc a lancé deux nanosatellites dont les données recueillies seront mises à la disposition des universités nationales. Ils ont étés lancés par le Falcon…
Le ministre de l’Énergie, Adebayo Adelabu, a déclaré aux journalistes mardi, à…
Le président de la transition du Mali, le Colonel Assimi Goïta, se…
Le président Cyril Ramaphosa a demandé à la ministre sud-africaine de la justice, Thembi Simelane, de s’expliquer sur les allégations de corruption qui la lient au fameux scandale de la VBS Mutual Bank.
La première séance parlementaire régionale en Ouganda a débuté le 28 août 2024 dans la ville de Gulu, dans le nord du pays. Les sessions de proximité sont sensées rapprocher le parlement du peuple.
L’une des figures influentes du régime de Macky Sall, Aminata Touré bénéficie d’une nouvelle ascension politique sous les nouveaux dirigeants sénégalais. Elle est nommée Haut…
L’ajout d’Abdellatif Mekki à la liste des candidats pourrait redistribuer les cartes dans la course présidentielle.
La Fédération Malienne de Football (FEMAFOOT) a annoncé, ce mercredi 28 août 2024, la nomination de Tom Saintfiet au poste de sélectionneur des Aigles du Mali. Cette décision intervient à un moment important, à quelques jours seulement du début des éliminatoires de la Coupe d’Afrique des Nations (CAN) 2025. À la veille d’un match important contre le Mozambique.
Le projet va également toucher les veuves des chauffeurs de convoi de ravitaillement des zones sous contrôle jihadiste.
En visite officielle à Dakar, le président du gouvernement espagnol, Pedro Sánchez, et le chef de l’Etat sénégalais, Bassirou Diomaye Faye, ont souligné, lors d’une conférence de presse commune, l’importance d’approfondir les relations bilatérales dans des domaines clés comme l’économie, l’immigration, la sécurité régionale, et…
Le docteur Faustine Englebert Ndugulile prendra la tête de l’Organisation mondiale de la santé (OMS) pour la région africaine. Succédant à la Botswanaise Matshidiso Moeti, il s’est engagé à travailler  pour faire progresser la santé des populations africaines.
L’initiative lancée par l’ICESCO est une réponse explicite et proactive aux défis complexes auxquels est confrontée l’agriculture dans le monde islamique.
En réponse à la déclaration de l’état de catastrophe nationale émise par le gouvernement de transition du Mali le 23 août 2024, les États-Unis, par l’intermédiaire de leur ambassade à Bamako et de l’Agence des États-Unis pour le développement international (USAID), ont déployé une assistance humanitaire urgente pour venir en aide aux milliers de Maliens touchés par les récentes inondations dévastatrices.
Plus de 6.000 personnels d’établissements scolaires privés de Côte d’Ivoire ont subi une formation, dans le cadre du renforcement de leurs capacités, en vue du relèvement du niveau des apprenants.
Ce portail d’actualité est une agrégation de l’ensemble de ses sites de news alimentés en temps réel par un réseau de correspondants.
Basés dans chaque pays d’Afrique et dans chacune des plus grandes capitales d’Europe, d’Asie ou des Amériques.

Adresse:Résidence AYA 3ème étage A24, Rue MZ81X96 Dakar, Sénégal
Tapez ci-dessus et appuyez surEnterpour rechercher. Appuyez surEscpour annuler.

Title: "Le M-23 n’est pas un contre-pouvoir" - adakar.com
