Title: Rebeldes ugandeses secuestran a unas 20 personas en la República Democrática del Congo - El Periódico
el periódico
SECUESTRO DE CIVILES
Un soldado del séptimo PARECO vigila una carretera en Nyamilima, en Kivu del Norte, al este de la República Democrática del Congo/ periodico
El Periódico
Al menos unasveinte personas,incluidosdiez niños, fueron secuestradas por presuntosrebeldes ugandeses del Frente Democrático Aliado(ADF) en el noreste de laRepública Democrática del Congo(RDC), informaron este lunes fuentes de la sociedad civil.
El suceso se produjo este lunes en la localidad de Oicha, cercana a la ciudad de Beni, en la provincia de Kivu del Norte, tras una incursión de miembros del ADF, que habríansecuestrado a al menos veinte personas, según explicó a Efe por teléfono el presidente de la sociedad civil de Beni,Kizito Bin Hangi.
"Hay niños del Congo que se enrolan en las guerrillas al ver que no hay futuro"
"Exigimos que se tome alguna medida para liberar a los menores y alresto de los secuestrados", afirmó el activista, quien destacó que la seguridad en elterritorio de Benies aún frágil y que "no se está persiguiendo a los captores".
La noticia se divulgó un día después de que un grupo de hombres armados, todavía no identificados, pero cuyo 'modus operandi' se asoció también al ADF, atacaran e incendiaran una de las posiciones estratégicas de lasFuerzas Armadas de la República Democrática del Congo(FARDC).
Por el momento, se han iniciado acciones judiciales contra varios jóvenes de Beni, sospechosos de colusión conrebeldes del ADF, señaló la misma fuente.
El grupo rebelde empezó sucampaña de violencia en 1996en el distrito de Kasese, en el oeste de Uganda, tras lo que se expandió avarias zonas fronterizas con la RDC.
Se trata de una de las organizaciones armadas que en la actualidad continúan activas en el país, tras el desarme en noviembre de 2014 del grupo rebelde M23, que llegó a controlar buena parte de la región.
Esta nación, y en concreto, la región del noreste, lleva años sumida en un largo conflicto alimentado por la presencia dedecenas de grupos armados rebeldes, a pesar de la actividad del Ejército congoleño y de la Misión de la ONU (Monusco).
Noticia guardada en tu perfil
Ver noticias guardadas
El Periódico de Catalunya, S.L.U
Otras webs de Prensa Ibérica Media:

Title: Rebeldes ugandeses secuestran a unas 20 personas en la República Democrática del Congo
Síguenos en redes sociales:
06·11·18|16:18
Noticia guardada en tu perfil
Rebeldes ugandeses secuestran a unas 20 personas en la República Democrática del Congo
Al menos unas veinte personas, incluidos diez niños, fueron secuestradas por presuntos rebeldes ugandeses del Frente Democrático Aliado (ADF) en el noreste de la República Democrática del Congo (RDC), informaron este lunes fuentes de la sociedad civil.
El suceso se produjo este lunes en la localidad de Oicha, cercana a la ciudad de Beni, en la provincia de Kivu del Norte, tras una incursión de miembros del ADF, que habrían secuestrado a al menos veinte personas, según explicó a Efe por teléfono el presidente de la sociedad civil de Beni, Kizito Bin Hangi.
"Exigimos que se tome alguna medida para liberar a los menores y al resto de los secuestrados", afirmó el activista, quien destacó que la seguridad en el territorio de Beni es aún frágil y que "no se está persiguiendo a los captores".
La noticia se divulgó un día después de que un grupo de hombres armados, todavía no identificados, pero cuyo 'modus operandi' se asoció también al ADF, atacaran e incendiaran una de las posiciones estratégicas de las Fuerzas Armadas de la República Democrática del Congo (FARDC).
Por el momento, se han iniciado acciones judiciales contra varios jóvenes de Beni, sospechosos de colusión con rebeldes del ADF, señaló la misma fuente.
Antecedentes
El grupo rebelde empezó su campaña de violencia en 1996 en el distrito de Kasese, en el oeste de Uganda, tras lo que se expandió a varias zonas fronterizas con la RDC.
Se trata de una de las organizaciones armadas que en la actualidad continúan activas en el país, tras el desarme en noviembre de 2014 del grupo rebelde M23, que llegó a controlar buena parte de la región.
Esta nación, y en concreto, la región del noreste, lleva años sumida en un largo conflicto alimentado por la presencia de decenas de grupos armados rebeldes, a pesar de la actividad del Ejército congoleño y de la Misión de la ONU (Monusco).
Compartir una noticia
Noticia guardada en tu perfil
Noticia guardada en tu perfil
Noticia guardada en tu perfil
Noticia guardada en tu perfil
PRENSA DIARIA ARAGONESA S.A.U.Todos los derechos reservados
Compartir una noticia

Title: Rebeldes ugandeses secuestran a unas 20 personas en la República Democrática del Congo - Diario Córdoba
Síguenos en redes sociales:
06·11·18|00:00
Noticia guardada en tu perfil
Rebeldes ugandeses secuestran a unas 20 personas en la República Democrática del Congo
Al menos unas veinte personas, incluidos diez niños, fueron secuestradas por presuntos rebeldes ugandeses del Frente Democrático Aliado (ADF) en el noreste de la República Democrática del Congo (RDC), informaron este lunes fuentes de la sociedad civil.
El suceso se produjo este lunes en la localidad de Oicha, cercana a la ciudad de Beni, en la provincia de Kivu del Norte, tras una incursión de miembros del ADF, que habrían secuestrado a al menos veinte personas, según explicó a Efe por teléfono el presidente de la sociedad civil de Beni, Kizito Bin Hangi.
"Exigimos que se tome alguna medida para liberar a los menores y al resto de los secuestrados", afirmó el activista, quien destacó que la seguridad en el territorio de Beni es aún frágil y que "no se está persiguiendo a los captores".
La noticia se divulgó un día después de que un grupo de hombres armados, todavía no identificados, pero cuyo 'modus operandi' se asoció también al ADF, atacaran e incendiaran una de las posiciones estratégicas de las Fuerzas Armadas de la República Democrática del Congo (FARDC).
Por el momento, se han iniciado acciones judiciales contra varios jóvenes de Beni, sospechosos de colusión con rebeldes del ADF, señaló la misma fuente.
Antecedentes
El grupo rebelde empezó su campaña de violencia en 1996 en el distrito de Kasese, en el oeste de Uganda, tras lo que se expandió a varias zonas fronterizas con la RDC.
Se trata de una de las organizaciones armadas que en la actualidad continúan activas en el país, tras el desarme en noviembre de 2014 del grupo rebelde M23, que llegó a controlar buena parte de la región.
Esta nación, y en concreto, la región del noreste, lleva años sumida en un largo conflicto alimentado por la presencia de decenas de grupos armados rebeldes, a pesar de la actividad del Ejército congoleño y de la Misión de la ONU (Monusco).
Compartir una noticia
Noticia guardada en tu perfil
Noticia guardada en tu perfil
Noticia guardada en tu perfil
Noticia guardada en tu perfil
Diario Cordoba S.A.U.Todos los derechos reservados
Compartir una noticia

Title: Rebeldes ugandeses secuestran a unas 20 personas en la República Democrática del Congo - El Periódico Extremadura
Síguenos en redes sociales:
06·11·18|16:18
Noticia guardada en tu perfil
Rebeldes ugandeses secuestran a unas 20 personas en la República Democrática del Congo
Al menos unas veinte personas, incluidos diez niños, fueron secuestradas por presuntos rebeldes ugandeses del Frente Democrático Aliado (ADF) en el noreste de la República Democrática del Congo (RDC), informaron este lunes fuentes de la sociedad civil.
El suceso se produjo este lunes en la localidad de Oicha, cercana a la ciudad de Beni, en la provincia de Kivu del Norte, tras una incursión de miembros del ADF, que habrían secuestrado a al menos veinte personas, según explicó a Efe por teléfono el presidente de la sociedad civil de Beni, Kizito Bin Hangi.
"Exigimos que se tome alguna medida para liberar a los menores y al resto de los secuestrados", afirmó el activista, quien destacó que la seguridad en el territorio de Beni es aún frágil y que "no se está persiguiendo a los captores".
La noticia se divulgó un día después de que un grupo de hombres armados, todavía no identificados, pero cuyo 'modus operandi' se asoció también al ADF, atacaran e incendiaran una de las posiciones estratégicas de las Fuerzas Armadas de la República Democrática del Congo (FARDC).
Por el momento, se han iniciado acciones judiciales contra varios jóvenes de Beni, sospechosos de colusión con rebeldes del ADF, señaló la misma fuente.
Antecedentes
El grupo rebelde empezó su campaña de violencia en 1996 en el distrito de Kasese, en el oeste de Uganda, tras lo que se expandió a varias zonas fronterizas con la RDC.
Se trata de una de las organizaciones armadas que en la actualidad continúan activas en el país, tras el desarme en noviembre de 2014 del grupo rebelde M23, que llegó a controlar buena parte de la región.
Esta nación, y en concreto, la región del noreste, lleva años sumida en un largo conflicto alimentado por la presencia de decenas de grupos armados rebeldes, a pesar de la actividad del Ejército congoleño y de la Misión de la ONU (Monusco).
Compartir una noticia
Noticia guardada en tu perfil
Noticia guardada en tu perfil
Noticia guardada en tu perfil
Noticia guardada en tu perfil
Editorial Extremadura S. A.Todos los derechos reservados
Compartir una noticia

Title:   La ONU eleva a siete el número de cascos azules muertos en la RDC
EFE | 15/11/2018 | 14:28
La noticia antes que nadie
04-2017-022812463100-203
© 2024 Todos los Derechos Reservados de Grupo Plano Informativo. Prohibida la reproducción total o parcial, incluyendo cualquier medio electrónico o magnético.

Title: Education Under Attack 2018 - Democratic Republic of the Congo | Refworld
Search
Search
Search
Hundreds of schools were looted, damaged, and destroyed or used for military purposes in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Armed parties also reportedly threatened, abducted, injured, and killed students and education personnel. Both boys and girls were recruited from schools or along school routes, and reports indicated that girls were taken specifically for sexual purposes.
Context
Already ongoing for more than two decades, conflict continued in the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo.[678]A new conflict began in the Greater Kasai region in April 2016, when tensions between the government and traditional chiefs led to the emergence of the Kamuina Nsapu militia.[679]This violence surged in 2017, with conflict also escalating in North and South Kivu and Tanganyika provinces.[680]The armed parties included the Forces Armées de la République Démocratique du Congo (Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo) (FARDC) and more than 120 non-state armed groups.[681]Most armed groups were small. One of the largest remaining groups was the Forces démocratiques de libération du Rwanda (Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda) (FDLR), which was estimated to have between 500 and 1,000 fighters in 2017.[682]The UN Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO), which began its peacekeeping mission in 1999, also continued to operate in the country.[683]
As of August 2017, 3.8 million people were internally displaced throughout DRC.[684]State and non-state parties reportedly raped, sexually enslaved, and forcibly impregnated women and girls because of their ethnicity.[685]Non-state armed groups perpetrated the majority of reported sexual violence, although MONUSCO and foreign forces were also accused of sexual exploitation from 2015 through 2017.[686]
Conflict impeded access to education across DRC, and an estimated 2.[9]million children were in urgent need of education at the end of 2016.[687]In the Tanganyika region, a resurgence of intercommunal tensions and military operations resulted in the destruction of more than 300 schools as of July 2017.[688]Also as of July 2017, UNICEF reported that damage to schools had forced 150,000 children out of school in the Kasai region.[689]The Education Cluster also reported that military use of educational institutions and other factors, including teachers forcibly recruited by militia, disrupted schooling, impeded girls' access to education and led to early marriages and pregnancies.[690]
According to a 2017 report by Child Soldiers International, child recruitment and a lack of access to education were mutually reinforcing. Forced conscription limited girls' access to education, while the inability to afford education led some girls to join armed groups instead.[691]Information collected by GCPEA indicated that girls who were abducted or recruited and raped, sometimes for months, often dropped out of school afterward.[692]
Reports of attacks on education, except child recruitment, were higher during the 2013-2017 reporting period than in the 2009-2013 period. This was possibly due to the resurgence of conflict in North and South Kivu and Tanganyika and the emergence of conflict in the Greater Kasai region, as well as strengthened monitoring and reporting of attacks on education. Attacks on education appeared to decline from 2013 to 2015, before rising significantly in 2016 and 2017.[693]
DRC endorsed the Safe Schools Declaration in July 2016.
Attacks on schools
Non-state armed groups reportedly shelled, burned, and looted hundreds of schools during the reporting period, many in the Kasai and Kasai-Central provinces, and in the Tanganyika region. Reports indicated that 2017 saw the highest number of attacks on schools of the reporting period. Attacks on schools occurred at similar rates in 2013, 2014, and 2015, with dozens of attacks each year, but 2016 saw a sharp spike. There were at least 639 verified and unverified attacks on schools reported in the Greater Kasai region in 2016 and 2017.[694]Of these, the UN verified 51 in 2016 and 396 in 2017.[695]
Non-state armed groups perpetrated most of the attacks on schools, and they used different methods, depending on their location. While perpetrators in the east used heavy weapons such as mines and rockets, perpetrators in the Greater Kasai region mainly used light weapons.[696]
During 2013, various non-state armed actors in the east, including the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), Alliance des patriotes pour un Congo libre et souverain (People's Alliance for a Free and Sovereign Congo) (APCLS), Force de résistance patriotique d'Ituri (Front for Patriotic Resistance in Ituri) (FRPI), March 23 Movement (M23), and Nduma Defence of Congo (NDC), reportedly looted, shelled, and burned schools. The UN verified 95 attacks on schools, including the looting of 21 by the ADF in Beni, North Kivu, and the looting and damage of 10 by the FRPI in Irumu, Ituri.[697]Examples included the following:
A report published by Save the Children included an incident on February 27, 2013, in which bombs hit a school during clashes between the FARDC and the APCLS because the IDPs inside the building were mistaken for enemy soldiers. Twelve people were killed and four students were injured. It was unclear if the school was hit, but it was reportedly later looted.[698]
According to information gathered and verified by the UN, M23 shelled a school in Goma during an attack in August 2013.[699]
Human Rights Watch reported that, in August 2013, NDC fighters raided a school in Pinga, destroying equipment and an office. Reports indicated that they also forced people to flee, although it was not clear if these people were school children or teachers.[700]
Attacks on schools in the east appeared to decline from 2014 to 2015. Reported totals of attacks on schools included the following:
In 2014, according to UN-verified information, the FARDC, ADF, FDLR, the Union des Patriotes Congolais pour la Paix (Union of Congolese Patriots), Raia Mutomboki, and other armed groups attacked 22 schools, including 10 that were looted after being used for military purposes.[701]
The UN also verified 22 attacks on schools in the east during 2015. This included 10 schools destroyed by the Twa self-defense group during clashes with members of the Luba ethnic group in Tanganyika. The Nyatura, an umbrella term for Congolese Hutu armed groups, destroyed four schools, and other armed groups destroyed eight. The locations of these attacks were not indicated.[702]
Attacks on schools rose again in 2016, when the UN verified 51 incidents targeting primary and secondary educational institutions. Identified perpetrators included Twa militia (13), ADF (8), Mai-Mai Simba (4), Mai-Mai Raia Mutomboki (4), and the FRPI (3).[703]Conflict broke out in the Greater Kasai region in August 2016, and violence surged in the Tanganyika region in September of that year. Violence also continued in the Kivus. For example, local civil society and UN agencies reported that on October 15, 2016, two teachers and two students were killed by a rocket strike that hit a school in Beni, North Kivu, during fighting between the FARDC and Corps du Christ, an armed religious sect.[704]
Different agencies reported the following totals of attacks on schools across the different DRC regions in 2016:
According to information provided by an international humanitarian organization, approximately 87 schools were attacked, set on fire, or looted in Kasai-Central by either the FARDC or militias between August and December 2016.[705]
According to Amnesty International, civil society organizations and local leaders reported that more than 150 schools were destroyed by fires during clashes between the Batwa and Luba communities in the Tanganyika region.[706]
In North Kivu, one international humanitarian agency found that, of 30 schools included in an intervention, nonstate armed groups attacked approximately 10 of them more than four times between 2015 and 2017. Another 10 were attacked at least three times.[707]
Attacks on schools continued to escalate in 2017, both in eastern DRC and the Greater Kasai region. Non-state armed groups were responsible for most of these attacks.[708]An international humanitarian organization reported that there were nearly 100 attacks on schools in the east as of October 2017. This included one school in North Kivu, 68 schools in South Kivu, and 29 schools in Tanganyika.[709]In the Kasai region, 396 attacks on schools were verified in 2017.[710]Examples of attacks in both the east and the Kasai region included the following:
According toReuters, during heavy fighting between the military and militia members on June 22, 2017, a mortar attack on a school injured at least three students who were sitting for their exams in Beni, North Kivu.[711]
In October 2017, the UN verified that a FARDC rocket hit a school in Butembo, North Kivu, killing two girls and two teachers and injuring four children.[712]
Attacks on school students, teachers, and other education personnel
The FARDC and various non-state armed groups reportedly beat, abducted, and killed several dozen students and teachers during the period from 2013 to 2017. For example, an international humanitarian agency found that 4 percent of students and 8 percent of teachers who were beneficiaries of a program implemented in Masisi territory, North Kivu, were attacked between 2015 and 2017.[713]Teachers and students were also killed in crossfire. The number of students and educators harmed was higher than the number reported inEducation under Attack 2014, which reported only two incidents of attacks on students or education personnel.
Most of these attacks occurred at the end of the reporting period. Indeed, only one case of an attack on a teacher was reported during the first three years. On October 26, 2013, a Hutu primary school director was killed near the village of Kavere during attacks by Raia Mutomboki in three villages in Masisi territory, North Kivu.[714]
Beginning in 2016, attacks on students, teachers, and other education personnel were reported in both eastern DRC and the Greater Kasai region, including the following:
Between August 2016 and May 2017, five education inspectors were killed in Kasai-Central.[715]
As of June 8, 2017, an unknown number of teachers were attacked while transporting test sheets for students.[716]
Militia members slapped a school inspector who was on his way to deliver school exams on or before May 2, 2017, reportedly in response to the fact that he was providing education in the areas under their control.[717]
Men armed with machetes reportedly stopped a team from delivering exams to the village of Tshisuku and used their weapons to strike the head of the team on or before May 2, 2017.[718]
Suspected militiamen temporarily abducted a team of education personnel that was traveling to Luiza on or before April 30, 2017. The team paid the militiamen to release them.[719]
According to the UN and the Education Cluster, the Kamuina Nsapu militia attacked a truck delivering exam materials in Kazumba territory, Kasai-Central province, on April 30, 2017. The assailants killed three school inspectors, two of whom were women.[720]
Military use of schools
Government soldiers and armed groups reportedly used schools for military positions and lodging, and looted them for resources such as firewood. The length of military occupation documented by Human Rights Watch ranged from days to months.[721]Military use was also reported at schools in the Greater Kasai region toward the end of the reporting period. Reports of military use were more common than in the period covered inEducation under Attack 2014, but it was not clear whether this finding was due to an actual rise in instances of military use or to better monitoring and reporting.
The UN verified 25 incidents of military use of schools in 2013, including 13 cases by the FARDC.[722]A variety of parties other parties, including M23, FDLR, Nyatura groups, and Raia Mutomboki, were also responsible, according to Human Rights Watch.[723]Military use included the occupation of schools as strategic points and training grounds for varying lengths of time. For example:
Human Rights Watch documented the occupation of a primary school in Kashenda village by government armed forces for 10 months starting in November 2012, although soldiers said they were positioned there to "secure the school."724
In March 2013, Nyatura combatants spent two nights in one school and looted it before leaving, according to Human Rights Watch.[725]
In June 2013, the M23 used both a primary school and a former kindergarten in Chengerero, North Kivu, to train combatants, according to Human Rights Watch.[726]
Human Rights Watch reported that, between November 2012 and at least July 2013, the FARDC used school grounds at the Institut Bweremana in Minova, conducting military parades and training exercises.[727]
Military use was less commonly reported in 2014, with the UN verifying about half as many cases (12) as it had previous year. The UN also reported that in Shabunda territory, South Kivu, the FARDC and Raia Mutomboki used four and six schools respectively, which were later destroyed, looted, or had their materials burned during fighting in April 2014.[728]
Military use continued in 2015, but successful advocacy led to armed groups vacating some schools. The UN verified information indicating that armed groups used 10 schools in 2015.[729]The FARDC reportedly used another 20 schools but vacated 13 following UN advocacy. 730
Military use continued to be reported in eastern DRC throughout 2016. The UN verified the military use of 19 schools, more than half of which were occupied by the FARDC.[731]In a study conducted in 2016 by an international humanitarian agency, the presence of an armed group at a school was the most common abuse: 29 percent of the 30 schools surveyed reported that armed actors entered classrooms during school hours.[732]An international humanitarian agency reported several examples of military use, including the following:
Throughout the year, government security forces and armed groups reportedly occupied and partially damaged schools in North Kivu. These incidents occurred in at least four villages in Masisi territory, three villages in Nyiragongo territory, and two other villages.[733]
In August 2016, the Mai Nyatura reportedly occupied Kishisha Primary School in Rutshuru territory.[734]
An armed group attempted to occupy Mwandja Primary School in October 2016. The exact location of the school was unreported.[735]
In 2016 and 2017, there were also reports that military use was occurring in the Greater Kasai region:
According to the UN, the FARDC used four schools in the Kasai provinces at some point between September 2016 and June 2017, but left the schools following advocacy by the UN.[736]
As of May 11, 2017, the Education Cluster reported that the military had occupied three to eight schools in Kananga, Kasai-Central province, for an unknown duration since the start of the conflict in the Greater Kasai region in August 2016.[737]
Child recruitment at, or en route to or from, school
Anecdotal reports indicated that non-state armed groups in the eastern part of the country targeted students for recruitment. They reportedly abducted students at school or along school routes, including for sexual purposes, as described in the following section. GCPEA found a similar number of reports of child recruitment from schools or along school routes in the 2013-2017 and 2009-2013 periods. Some parents reportedly stopped sending their children to school for fear that armed groups would recruit them, according to the US State Department.[738]
Incidents of child recruitment included the following:
According to MONUSCO, between January 2012 and August 2013, Nyatura groups recruited 185 boys and 5 girls, 34 of whom were under 15 years of age. A Nyatura recruiter told MONUSCO that they were commanded to recruit "older boys" from schools. It was not clear what "older" meant.[739]
On September 27, 2013, according to Human Rights Watch, NDC fighters abducted approximately 20 students from a primary school in Butemure, Walikale territory, North Kivu. They beat those trying to flee with sticks and bayonets, seriously injuring six students.[740]
MONUSCO reported that the FDLR was responsible for the abduction of five children while on their way to school between January 1, 2012, and August 31, 2013.[741]
Human Rights Watch reported a pattern of recruitment in February 2013, during which the FDLR recruited teachers and students from schools in Mpati territory.[742]
On an unknown day in July 2013, the FDLR kidnapped 10 boys and three girls from the Bumbasha Institute, a secondary school in Rutshuru. All abducted children were reportedly forced to join the FDLR as combatants or forced laborers.[743]
According to an international humanitarian organization, in 2014 and 2015, 51 school children were recruited from 12 schools the organization supported in unidentified provinces throughout the country. Thirteen of these children were later returned.[744]
Sexual violence by armed parties at, or en route to or from, school
Sexual violence by armed parties affected girls and women in DRC, including at school. An international humanitarian organization found that several out of 30 schools surveyed reported that students were subjected to sexual violence, including abduction and forced marriage, by armed actors along school routes.[745]GCPEA identified more incidents of sexual violence in the context of education in 2013-2017 than in 2009-2013. It was unclear whether this increase was due to stronger monitoring and reporting or to an intensification of conflict.
Both military personnel and members of non-state armed groups reportedly targeted girls at schools for rape, forcing them to leave their classrooms or abducting them on the route to or from school. For example:
Human Rights Watch reported in 2015 that M23 forced male students to bring female classmates to them.[746]
Human Rights Watch reported that, on an unspecified date before June 2013, government soldiers caught a 16-year-old girl student and her female classmate while they were fleeing, but still on school grounds, and raped both girls.[747]
In July 2013, a female teacher in Rutshuru territory told Human Rights Watch that M23 fighters came to her school three to four times per month and took girls away to rape them.[748]
The Education Cluster reported on July 31, 2017, that Twa militia men reportedly abducted and raped three girls from a primary school in the Kabalo area.[749]
The Education Cluster reported that on an unspecified date before July 31, 2017, Bantu militiamen abducted and raped eight girls from a primary school on the Nyunzu-Manono axis over the course of three months.[750]
According to the Education Cluster, on an unspecified date before July 31, 2017, in the process of robbing a primary school in Manono town, an unidentified militia abducted and raped six school girls for over two months.[751]
Attacks on higher education
Police and other government security forces reportedly killed and injured nearly 100 student protesters from 2013-2017. Protest-related violence, which was the only reported type of attack on higher education students and institutions, took place primarily in Kinshasa. There were more attacks on higher education in the current reporting period than in the 2009-2013 period, when only two such incidents were reported. However, the increase may have been due to improved monitoring and reporting of attacks on higher education.[752]
GCPEA identified reports of six incidents in which police used excessive violence against student protestors, which included the following:
According toUniversity World News, witnesses reported that in February 2013, after student protests at the Institut Supérieur de Développement Rural in Lubao turned violent and students threw stones, police opened fired on the crowd, killing two students and injuring seven others.[753]
Reutersreported that in January 2015, during several days of demonstrations near the University of Kinshasa, police fired shots into the air amid thousands of students protesting President Kabila.[754]In the midst of these protests, on January 21, 2015, police also shot teargas into students' dormitory rooms at the University of Kinshasa, according to Human Rights Watch.[755]According FIDH, the violence killed at least 42 people. The authorities, on the other hand, claimed the death toll was five.[756]Human Rights Watch reported that at least 6 of those killed were students.[757]
In November 2016, regional news sources stated that approximately 20 students at the Higher Institute of Applied Technology in Kinshasa were injured during protests against higher university fees. The same sources reported that the police shot students and fired teargas into classrooms during the protests. The police denied using lethal weapons.[758]
According to Human Rights Watch, military intelligence officers arrested Ben Tshimanga, a student at Kinshasa's Institut Supérieur des Techniques Médicales, on July 20, 2017, likely for his affiliation with an opposition political party. Students protested his arrest that evening, but they were reportedly dispersed by government security forces, who shot live bullets into the air.[759]
The next day, July 21, 2017, an even larger group of students demonstrated outside the university's administrative building. Some of these students turned violent, throwing rocks and burning nearby vehicles. Human Rights Watch indicated that the police responded with teargas and live bullets, which hit several students. The same source reported that police beat and arrested many more students.[760]
678"Crisis in North Kivu,"IRIN, July 10, 2012. Human Rights Watch, "DRCongo: Chronology," August 21, 2009.
679International Crisis Group,Kamuina Nsapu Insurgency Adds to Dangers in DRCongo(New York: International Crisis Group, 2017).
680OCHA, "Democratic Republic of the Congo-Overview," November 2017, p. 1.
681"DR Congo: New 'Kivu Security Tracker' Maps Eastern Violence," Human Rights Watch news release, December 7, 2017.
682For further information on many of the armed parties in DRC, please see "The Eastern Congo," Council on Foreign Relations (CFR), October 2016. Elsa Buchanan, "Battle for control of the DRC: Who are the Raia Mutomboki?"International Business Times, October 29, 2015. Human Rights Watch,"Our School Became the Battlefield,"pp. 10-12. "Armed groups in eastern DRC,"IRIN, October 31, 2013.
683"About," MONUSCO,https://monusco.unmissions.org/en/about.
684"DR Congo tops list of most newly displaced people in first half year," Norwegian Refugee Council news release, August 16, 2017.
685UN Security Council, "Report of the Secretary-General," S/2015/203, para. 24
686UN General Assembly and Security Council, "Report of the Secretary-General," A/70/836S/2016/360, para. 57. UN,Update on Allegations of Sexual Exploitation and Abuse in United Nations Peacekeeping Operations and Special Political Missions, May 17, 2016, p. 1. "DR Congo: UN peacekeepers face fresh sexual abuse claims,"BBC News, April 28, 2017.
687OCHA,2017 Humanitarian Needs Overview – Democratic Republic of Congo(2017 Besoins Aperçu des Humanitaires République Démocratique du Congo) (Kinshasa, DRC: 2016), p. 3.
688Information shared by the Education Cluster via email on July 31, 2017.
689"150,000 children," UNICEF.
690Information shared by the Education Cluster via email on July 31, 2017. Information shared by a UN respondentvia email, September 2017.
691Child Soldiers International,What the Girls Say(London: Child Soldiers International, 2017), pp. 17-19.
692Information shared by an international humanitarian organization via email on July 31, 2017.
693Information shared by the Education Cluster via email on August 2, 2017.
694"150,000 children," UNICEF. Information shared by a UN respondent on September 18, 2017.
695Information shared by a UN respondent on February 2, 2018.
696Information shared by a UN respondent on September 18, 2017.
697United Nations General Assembly and Security Council, "Report of the Secretary-General," A/68/878-S/2014/339, para. 65.
698Save the Children,Attacks on Education: The impact of conflict and grave violations on children's futures(London: Save the Children, 2013), p. 13.
699UN Security Council, "Report of the Secretary-General on children and armed conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo," S/2014/453, June 30, 2014, para. 48.
700Human Rights Watch,"Our School Became the Battlefield,"p. 25.
701UN General Assembly and Security Council, "Report of the Secretary-General: Children and armed conflict," A/69/926-S/2015/409, para. 63.
702UN General Assembly and Security Council, "Report of the Secretary-General," A/70/836S/2016/360, para. 49.
703UN Secretary-General, "Report of the Secretary-General," A/72/361-S/2017/821, para. 67.
704"UNESCO and UNICEF honor the memory of teachers and students killed in North Kivu (DRC)" ("L'UNESCO et l'UNICEF saluent la mémoire des enseignants et élèves tués au Nord Kivu [RDC]"), UNESCO press release, October 24, 2016. "DRC: tensions in Butembo"("RDC: tensions à Butembo"),RFI Afrique, October 16, 2016.
705Information shared by an international humanitarian organization via email on November 16, 2017.
706Amnesty International,World Report 2016/2017, Congo chapter.
707Information shared by an international humanitarian agency, November 2017.
708Information shared by an international humanitarian organization via email, December 14, 2017.
709Information shared by an international humanitarian organization via email, December 14, 2017.
710Information shared by a UN respondent, February 9, 2018.
711"Heavy fighting in northeastern Congo, several wounded-residents,"Reuters, June 22, 2017.
712UN Secretary-General, "Report of the Secretary-General," A/72/361-S/2017/821, para. 67.
713Information shared by an international humanitarian organization via email, November 2017.
714Human Rights Watch,"Our School Became the Battlefield,"p. 23.
715Information shared by the Global Education Cluster via email on August 2, 2017.
716Information shared by the Global Education Cluster via email on August 2, 2017.
717Information shared by the Global Education Cluster via email on August 2, 2017.
718Information shared by the Global Education Cluster via email on August 2, 2017.
719Information shared by the Global Education Cluster via email on August 2, 2017.
720UN Security Council, "Report of the Secretary-General," S/2017/565, para. 16. Information shared by the Education Cluster via email on August 2, 2017.
721Human Rights Watch,"Our School Became the Battlefield,"p. 30.
722UN General Assembly and Security Council, "Report of the Secretary-General," A/68/878S/2014/339, para. 65.
723Human Rights Watch,"Our School Became the Battlefield,"p. 27.
724Human Rights Watch,"Our School Became the Battlefield,"pp. 30-31.
725Human Rights Watch,"Our School Became the Battlefield,"p. 29.
726Human Rights Watch,"Our School Became the Battlefield,"p. 31.
727Human Rights Watch,"Our School Became the Battlefield,"p. 31.
728UN General Assembly and Security Council, "Report of the Secretary-General," A/69/926S/2015/409, para. 63.
729UN General Assembly and Security Council, "Report of the Secretary-General," A/70/836S/2016/360, para. 50.
730UN General Assembly and Security Council, "Report of the Secretary-General," A/70/836S/2016/360, para. 50.
731UN Secretary-General, "Report of the Secretary-General," A/72/361-S/2017/821, para. 68.
732Information shared by an international humanitarian organization via email, November 2017.
733Information provided an international humanitarian organization on January 27, 2017.
734Information provided by an international humanitarian organization on January 27, 2017.
735Information provided by an international humanitarian organization on January 27, 2017.
736UN Security Council, "Report of the Secretary-General," S/2017/565, para. 48.
737Information shared by the Global Education Cluster via email on August 2, 2017.
738US State Department et al., "Country Reports 2015: Democratic Republic of the Congo," p. 29.
739MONUSCO, "Child Recruitment by Armed Groups in DRC From January 2012 to August 2013," October 2013, p. 9, as cited in Human Rights Watch,"Our School Became the Battlefield,"pp. 21-22.
740Human Rights Watch,"Our School Became the Battlefield,"p. 17.
741MONUSCO, "Child Recruitment by Armed Groups in DRC from January 2012 to August 2013," October 2013, p. 12.
742Human Rights Watch,"Our School Became the Battlefield,"p. 21.
743Human Rights Watch,"Our School Became the Battlefield,"p. 21.
744Information provided by an international humanitarian organization on January 27, 2017 and in November 2017.
745Information shared by an international humanitarian organization via email in November 2017.
746Human Rights Watch,"Our School Became the Battlefield."pp. 23.
747Human Rights Watch,"Our School Became the Battlefield,"pp. 23.
748Human Rights Watch,"Our School Became the Battlefield."p. 22.
749Information shared by the Education Cluster via email on July 31, 2017.
750Information shared by the Education Cluster via email on July 31, 2017.
751Information shared by the Education Cluster via email on July 31, 2017.
752Information shared a UN respondentvia email, September 18, 2017.
753"Clashes between students and police hit province,"University World News, March 16, 2013.
754Aaron Ross, "Protests, calls for respect of constitution in Congo election row,"Reuters, January 20, 2015.
755"DR Congo: Deadly Crackdown on Protests," Human Rights Watch news release, January 24, 2015.
756"DRC protesters killed in police crackdown,"Al Jazeera, January 21, 2015.
757"DR Congo: Deadly Crackdown on Protests."
758"20 Congolese students injured in clashes with Kinshasa police during protest,"Africanews, November 9, 2016. "5 DRC students shot in clashes with police,"News24, November 10, 2016.
759Ida Sawyer, "Crackdown on Students, Opposition as Government Blames Them for Kinshasa Attacks,"Human Rights Watch Live Updates, August 2, 2017.
760Ida Sawyer, "Crackdown on Students, Opposition as Government Blames Them for Kinshasa Attacks,"Human Rights Watch Live Updates, August 2, 2017.
This is not a UNHCR publication. UNHCR is not responsible for, nor does it necessarily endorse, its content. Any views expressed are solely those of the author or publisher and do not necessarily reflect those of UNHCR, the United Nations or its Member States.

Title: 2001 Online | Noticias de actualidad nacionales e internacionales
A través de la sitio web del organismo de transporte terrestre puedes gestionar diversos trámites desde la comodidad del hogar u oficina.
A través de la sitio web del organismo de transporte terrestre puedes gestionar diversos trámites desde la comodidad del hogar u oficina.
Residentes deben visitar estos centros si no tienen un lugar para mantenerse frescos y seguros ante las altas temperaturas
Jay Wheeler usó las redes sociales para defender a capa y espada a su pequeña hija, luego de que varios usuarios de internet criticaron su nombre.
La cadena de tiendas permite a sus empleados, poder tramitar el documento de manera rápida y segura si aplican a ciertos requisitos.
Según las proyecciones, el Ajuste por Costo de Vida apunta a un incremento de aproximadamente 2.63%
El nombre del cantante mexicano Juan Gabriel dio de qué hablar una vez más en redes sociales tras salir a la luz pública detalles sobre su museo en Ciudad de Juárez.
Residentes deben visitar estos centros si no tienen un lugar para mantenerse frescos y seguros ante las altas temperaturas
Jay Wheeler usó las redes sociales para defender a capa y espada a su pequeña hija, luego de que varios usuarios de internet criticaron su nombre.
La cadena de tiendas permite a sus empleados, poder tramitar el documento de manera rápida y segura si aplican a ciertos requisitos.
Según las proyecciones, el Ajuste por Costo de Vida apunta a un incremento de aproximadamente 2.63%
El nombre del cantante mexicano Juan Gabriel dio de qué hablar una vez más en redes sociales tras salir a la luz pública detalles sobre su museo en Ciudad de Juárez.
Bancaribe, en el marco de su 70 aniversario, establece una alianza con la Universidad Central de Venezuela (UCV).
El Servicio de Ciudadanía e Inmigración de los Estados Unidos dio una respuesta ante esta inquietud.
Bancaribe, en el marco de su 70 aniversario, establece una alianza con la Universidad Central de Venezuela (UCV).
El Servicio de Ciudadanía e Inmigración de los Estados Unidos dio una respuesta ante esta inquietud.
La Fiscalía de Venezuela emite una tercera citación al opositor Edmundo González Urrutia
Sergio Lotartaro, presidente del BDT, precisó que actualmente 750.000 emprendedores en todo el país se han financiado, pero aspiran superar el millón
Quedan pocos días para aprovechar el 50% en una de las membresías más populares de Walmart
Existen leyes en Estados Unidos (EEUU) que aseguran un alivio a la población por facturas médicas inesperadamente altas.
El uso de Wallet ID, que almacenan identificaciones está experimentando un crecimiento exponencial a escala global.
Quedan pocos días para aprovechar el 50% en una de las membresías más populares de Walmart
Existen leyes en Estados Unidos (EEUU) que aseguran un alivio a la población por facturas médicas inesperadamente altas.
El uso de Wallet ID, que almacenan identificaciones está experimentando un crecimiento exponencial a escala global.
La exvocalista de 'La Oreja de Van Gogh' Amaia Montero reapareció en redes sociales
Protege tus equipos y ahorra mucho dinero en tu factura mensual desenchufando algunos electrodomésticos
Migrantes podrán tramitar a partir de ahora su cita de ‘CBP One’ con las autoridades de Estados Unidos desde el sur de México
Migrantes podrán tramitar a partir de ahora su cita de ‘CBP One’ con las autoridades de Estados Unidos desde el sur de México
Champions League: ¿Contra quién debuta Mbappé y el Real Madrid?
Champions League: PSG, el gran damnificado en el sorteo de la Fase Inicial
Contra qué equipos se enfrentan los clubes ingleses en la Champions League
MLB: Kansas City pelea en la Liga Americana al ritmo frenético de Maikel García (+Video)

Title: 
Uganda, DR Congo talks over joint military operation against ADF rebels postponed - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KAMPALA, Nov. 28 (Xinhua) -- The Uganda military on Wednesday said talks between Uganda and Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) over joint military operations against the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) scheduled for this weekend have been postponed to allow for more consultations.
Brig. Richard Karemire, Uganda's military spokesperson, told Xinhua in a telephone interview that the planned Saturday bilateral meeting between authorities in Kampala and Kinshasa on conducting joint operations against the ADF who recently killed UN peacekeepers and DRC soldiers have been postponed.
"The meeting is still being planned. It has been rescheduled to another date to be announced soon," said Karemire.
ADF is a Ugandan rebel group hiding in eastern DRC where it is causing mayhem.
Xi meets Spanish king to cement friendship, enhance cooperation
Chinese president arrives in Spain for state visit
Early winter scenery across China
Xinhua Headlines: Russia-Ukraine confrontation in Kerch Strait adds uncertainties to regional stability
Giant pandas from Sichuan make public debut in Hainan
Beautiful scenery in east China
White swans fly from Siberia to Yellow River wetland to spend winter
Fire fighters participate in drill in Xiamen, southeast China's Fujian

Title: Uganda deploys additional troops along border with DR Congo
NAN
The Ugandan military has deployed additional troops along its common border with the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) to prepare for possible infiltration and attacks from the rebel group Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a spokesperson said on Tuesday.
Richard Karemire, Uganda’s military spokesperson, told newsmen that the army has made reinforcement of soldiers and Local Defence Units (LDU) as a precautionary measure to prevent infiltration and attacks by the ADF.
“Our security at the border is beefed up with sufficient presence of troops supported by the LDU’s that were recruited from the border districts of Bundibugyo, Kasese and Ntoroko.
READ ALSO:Oshiomhole, Akpabio’s ‘surprise’ appearance disrupts Jonathan’s book launch temporarily
“The vigilance of the public is in place to stem any surprise attacks or infiltration,’’ Karemire added.
The ADF, a Ugandan rebel group operating in restive eastern DRC, recently killed seven Malawian, one Tanzanian UN peacekeepers and no fewer than 12 DRC soldiers.
The soldiers were killed on Wednesday during joint operations of the UN peacekeeping mission and the DRC troops against the ADF insurgents in Beni of North Kivu province.
You must belogged into post a comment.
Nigerians want to proptest because they are hungry. They are...
Much as I am in sympathy with the Nigerian youth nation- wid...
May his gentle soul rest in peace and may the good Lord comf...
Well spoken 'The Rock'. You were supposed to be leading us i...
You talk as if Nigeria goes up in flames today, you and memb...

Title: 
Uganda deploys additional troops along border with DR Congo - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KAMPALA, Nov. 20 (Xinhua) -- The Ugandan military has deployed additional troops along its common border with the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) to prepare for possible infiltration and attacks from the rebel group Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a spokesperson said here Tuesday.
Richard Karemire, Uganda's military spokesperson, told Xinhua in an interview that the army has made reinforcement of soldiers and Local Defense Units (LDU) as a precautionary measure to prevent infiltration and attacks by the ADF.
"Our security at the border is beefed up with sufficient presence of troops supported by the LDU's that were recruited from the (border) districts of Bundibugyo, Kasese and Ntoroko," said Karemire.
And the vigilance of the public is in place to stem any surprise attacks or infiltration, he added.
The ADF, a Ugandan rebel group operating in restive eastern DRC, last week killed seven Malawian, one Tanzanian UN peacekeepers and at least 12 DRC soldiers.
The soldiers were killed on Wednesday during joint operations of the UN peacekeeping mission and the DRC troops against the ADF insurgents in Beni of North Kivu province. Enditem

Title: Uganda deploys additional troops along border with DR Congo - China.org.cn
视频播放位置
KAMPALA, Nov. 20 (Xinhua) -- The Ugandan military has deployed additional troops along its common border with the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) to prepare for possible infiltration and attacks from the rebel group Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a spokesperson said here Tuesday.

Richard Karemire, Uganda's military spokesperson, told Xinhua in an interview that the army has made reinforcement of soldiers and Local Defense Units (LDU) as a precautionary measure to prevent infiltration and attacks by the ADF.

"Our security at the border is beefed up with sufficient presence of troops supported by the LDU's that were recruited from the (border) districts of Bundibugyo, Kasese and Ntoroko," said Karemire.

And the vigilance of the public is in place to stem any surprise attacks or infiltration, he added.

The ADF, a Ugandan rebel group operating in restive eastern DRC, last week killed seven Malawian, one Tanzanian UN peacekeepers and at least 12 DRC soldiers.

The soldiers were killed on Wednesday during joint operations of the UN peacekeeping mission and the DRC troops against the ADF insurgents in Beni of North Kivu province. Enditem



Title: Insécurité à l’Est : l’ambassadeur de la RDC à la CIRGL dénonce des complicités intérieures
L'AFDC-A va-t-elle quitter l'Union sacrée ?
Le gouvernement souligne l’urgence d’organiser le 2ème recensement général de la population
Nord-Kivu : des personnes non identifiées en provenance du Rwanda signalées à Lubero (alerte)
Kinshasa : Rawbank lance le tournoi de basketball universitaire 3X3 « All Star Game University »
Finance climatique en RDC : Rawbank montre la voie
Finance : l’AFC diversifie encore son actionnariat grâce à l’entrée au capital de Rawbank
Provinces
Kakese Vinalu, ambassadeur de la RDC à la Conférence internationale sur la Région des Grands-Lacs (CIRGL)
Entretien avec Kakese Vinalu, ambassadeur de la RDC à la Conférence internationale sur la Région des Grands-Lacs (CIRGL) sur la persistance des groupes armés dans l’Est de la RDC
Il y a un an, en octobre 2017, à Brazzaville, les Etats membres de la CIRGL avaient appelé la RDC à faire plus pour neutraliser les mouvements comme les ADF ou les FDLR. Qu’est-ce qui a été fait concrètement et pour quel résultat ?
La Conférence internationale sur la Région des Grands-Lacs (CIRGL) est un regroupement de 12 pays. Les chefs d’Etats se réunissent pour prendre des décisions et ces décisions sont adressées à des structures bien précises qui doivent les exécuter. Si c’est pour le secteur minier on demandera au ministre des Mines. Si c’est pour un problème de sécurité on demandera des comptes au ministre de la Défense.
Les Etats membres de la CIRGL ont demandé à la RDC d’éradiquer les groupes armés comme les ADF, les FDLR, etc., et je pense que cette recommandation a été adressée à l’armée congolaise et c’est l’armée qui doit rendre des comptes. La Conférence internationale sur la Région des Grands-Lacs (CIRGL) a pris une décision et l’a confiée à une structure d’exécution qui est l’armée. En décembre prochain il y a une grande réunion qui est prévue et ça sera l’occasion d’évaluer toutes les recommandations qui ont été retenues.
Je pense personnellement que pour éradiquer les groupes armés dans l’Est du Congo, il faut couper tous liens entre ces groupes armés et les personnes qui les entretiennent. Lorsque qu’on aura mis la main sur ces personnes, le problème sera résolu à 80 %. Mais pour venir à bout des groupes armés il faut que nous-mêmes, Congolais, ne nous trahissons pas. Même pour l’exploitation artisanale des minerais, il y a des complicités nationales et internes qui font que ces minerais ne profitent pas aux Congolais. Ce sont ces complicités internes qu’il faut dénoncer pour espérer arriver à une véritable paix sur toute l’étendue du territoire national.
La persistance de l’insécurité dans la zone du Kivu peut-elle avoir un impact sur le scrutin de décembre 2018 ?
Oui, l’insécurité dans le Kivu peut impacter sur le scrutin de décembre si les mesures de sécurité ne sont pas prises en compte. Parce que là où il n’y a pas de paix, on ne peut rien faire, encore moins des élections. La période électorale, c’est un moment où il y a de vives tensions. La compétition est précédée par l’envie de gagner, alors tous les moyens sont utilisés. En politique, tous les moyens sont permis, l’essentiel c’est d’arriver aux résultats. L’insécurité est un handicap pour la bonne tenue des élections. Les instances militaires et judiciaires devraient prendre des dispositions partout où il y a des foyers de tension tout en sécurisant les bureaux de vote et les populations. S’il y a des zones de conflits, c’est parce qu’il y a des richesses, comme au Kivu. Cette relation entre conflits et minerais est bien comprise par les chefs d’Etats membres de la CIRGL.
Les autres pays membres de la CIRGL peuvent-ils assister la RDC dans cette lutte contre les mouvements négatifs ?
Bien sûr, il y a eu plusieurs opérations dont Kimia leo, Amani leo, etc. que la RDC a menées avec le Rwanda et l’Ouganda. Museveni vient de s’exprimer afin de former une armée de la CIRGL, c’est-à-dire, un état-major composé de militaires rwandais, ougandais et congolais afin d’éradiquer des groupes rebelles comme les ADF et les FDLR.
A Goma, dans le Nord-Kivu, il existe deux structures de la CIRGL comme le mécanisme de vérification élargie, qui comprend l’état-major des 12 pays membres de la CIRGL, mais également le service de renseignement de ces 12 pays qui mènent des actions. Lorsque vous avez des problèmes chez vous, il faut chercher à savoir si vous n’êtes pas complice consciemment ou inconsciemment. Au niveau de nos Etats, ces questions devraient être posées. Pourquoi les groupes armés persistent-ils ? Où est-ce qu’ils amènent les minerais qu’ils exploitent ? A qui profite tout cela ? Nous devons connaître les sources de nos problèmes pour savoir bien les régler.

Lecode à 7 caractères (précédé de « @ »)  à côté du Nomest leCode MediaCongo de l’utilisateur. Par exemple « Jeanne243 @AB25CDF ». Ce code est unique à chaque utilisateur. Il permet de différencier les utilisateurs.Poster un commentaire, réagir  ?Les commentaires et réactions sont postés librement, tout en respectant lesconditions d’utilisationde la plateforme mediacongo.net.  Vous pouvez cliquer sur  2 émojis au maximum.Merci et excellente expérience sur mediacongo.net,  première plateforme congolaiseMediaCongo – Support Utilisateurs
Réagir
Réagir
Réagir
Réagir
Réagir
Les plus commentés
PolitiqueL'archibishop Kutino Fernando recommande au Président Félix Tshisekedi de ne pas être complaisant envers son entourage !
PolitiqueSeth Kikuni à Martin Fayulu : "S'il y aura dialogue, ça sera pour rappeler à Félix Tshisekedi en face qu'il est incompétent"
PolitiqueAppel à la cohésion nationale : le trio Kapita-Lisanga-Della pose une condition à Martin Fayulu
Société« 9 camions pleins de militaires Rwandais arrivent à Kibumba au Nord-Kivu » (Société civile)
Ont commenté cet article
Zairois @Y5GIOO8
VERITE' @MYBMKJD
Past DSK @D5JSB3I
PAPA WA ROMA 666 @UI11G4O
EN DIEU NOTRE ESPOIR @JL4Y99K

Ils nous font confiance

Title: 
Over 700 former Rwandan rebels repatriated from DRC: gov't - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KIGALI, Nov. 23 (Xinhua) -- Over 700 ex-combatants of Rwandan rebel group Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR) have been repatriated to Rwanda from neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo (DR Congo), where the group is based, the Rwandan government said Friday in a statement.
Another group of over 800 is expected to be repatriated to in the near future, said the statement.
The ex-combatants, together with their spouses and children, were given reinstallation packages and medical screening in a demobilization and reintegration center in Musanze District, northern Rwanda, it said, adding that children are receiving all required immunisations while pregnant women will undergo all ante-natal care.
The ex-combatants have been living in different transit camps across eastern DR Congo for over the last two years, where they were gathered as part of a joint UN and regional efforts to repatriate all rebel groups in the region, according to the statement.
This repatriation is in line with last year's decision of regional Heads of State, which set the deadline for repatriation without preconditions of the disarmed FDLR combatants and their dependents located in transit camps in eastern DR Congo by Oct. 20, 2018, said the government.
FDLR was formed after the 1994 Rwandan Genocide against Tutsi with the intention to topple the Rwandan government.
It is largely made up of elements blamed for perpetuating the genocide, which claimed over 1 million lives, mostly ethnic Tutsis,
For decades the rebel group has been accused of wreaking havoc in neighboring DRC, terrorizing the local population and profiting from DR Congo's rich natural resources.
CPC holds symposium to commemorate 120th anniversary of Liu Shaoqi's birth
Commodity exhibits at exhibition on reform, opening up show change of life style
China plans first undersea tunnel for high-speed trains
Pic story of shadow puppetry player in China's Zhejiang
Wild mandarin ducks seen on Xin'an River in E China's Anhui
"Italian Week" kicks off in Kuwait
Scenery of rice fields in south China's Guangxi
Migratory swans spend winter at central China's wetland

Title: Seven UN peacekeepers killed in fight against DRC rebels | News | Al Jazeera
Several DRC soldiers also killed or wounded in joint operation targeting Allied Democratic Forces fighters in northeast.
TheUnited Nationssays seven of its peacekeepers have been killed in theDemocratic Republic of Congo (DRC),in a military operation with government forces against rebels in the country’sEbola-hitnortheast.
Several DRC soldiers were also killed or wounded in Wednesday’s joint operationtargeting Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) rebels in the Beni region, North Kivu, according toStephane Dujarric, UN spokesperson.
Ten UN peacekeepers were wounded and one was still missing, he added. An unknown number of ADF fighters were also killed or wounded.
Dujarric said six of the killed peacekeepers were from Malawi and one was fromTanzania.
The DRC’s volatile east is home to many armed groups, including ADF, vying for control of the mineral-rich region.
The ADF originated inUgandaas a rebel force against the government and carried out deadly bombings in the 1990s. A military campaign forced them to relocate to eastern DRC.
Since October 2014, ADF rebels have been accused of killing more than 1,500 people in the Beni region.
UN investigators have blamed the ADF for carrying out the deadliest single assault on the UN peacekeeping mission in the DRC in almost 25 years.
That attack on December 7, 2017 at a base in Semuliki near Beni killed at least 15 Tanzanian peacekeepers, wounded 43 others and left one peacekeeper missing.
In recent attacks, ADF rebels have also killed civilians and abducted children in the Beni region.
The rebel attacks have forced suspension of crucial efforts to contain theEbola outbreakin some areas.
Peter Salama, the emergencies chief for the World Health Organization, predicted earlier this week that the outbreak, which has killed more than 200 people, would last at least another six months.
He said makeshift health facilities offering both traditional and modern treatment have become “major drivers” of the current, deadly transmission and are believed to be linked to more than half of the cases in Beni, the largest city affected by the current outbreak.
Salama said the current Ebola outbreak is “arguably the most difficult context that we’ve ever encountered”, pointing to activities of two armed rebel groups in the region.
UN Secretary-GeneralAntonio Guterrescalled on all armed groups to stop “their destabilising activities” and “disarm immediately”, Dujarric said.
He also urgedDRCauthorities to apprehend and bring to justice the perpetrators of attacks against civilians, national security forces and UN peacekeepers, the spokesperson added.
Guterres gave strong backing to peacekeepers from Malawi and Tanzania “who continue to operate in an exceptionally difficult environment to protect local populations against the attacks of the ADF and other armed groups,” Dujarric said.









Follow Al Jazeera English:

Title: Over 700 former Rwandan rebels repatriated from DRC: gov't - China.org.cn
视频播放位置
KIGALI, Nov. 23 (Xinhua) -- Over 700 ex-combatants of Rwandan rebel group Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR) have been repatriated to Rwanda from neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo (DR Congo), where the group is based, the Rwandan government said Friday in a statement.
Another group of over 800 is expected to be repatriated to in the near future, said the statement.
The ex-combatants, together with their spouses and children, were given reinstallation packages and medical screening in a demobilization and reintegration center in Musanze District, northern Rwanda, it said, adding that children are receiving all required immunisations while pregnant women will undergo all ante-natal care.
The ex-combatants have been living in different transit camps across eastern DR Congo for over the last two years, where they were gathered as part of a joint UN and regional efforts to repatriate all rebel groups in the region, according to the statement.
This repatriation is in line with last year's decision of regional Heads of State, which set the deadline for repatriation without preconditions of the disarmed FDLR combatants and their dependents located in transit camps in eastern DR Congo by Oct. 20, 2018, said the government.
FDLR was formed after the 1994 Rwandan Genocide against Tutsi with the intention to topple the Rwandan government.
It is largely made up of elements blamed for perpetuating the genocide, which claimed over 1 million lives, mostly ethnic Tutsis,
For decades the rebel group has been accused of wreaking havoc in neighboring DRC, terrorizing the local population and profiting from DR Congo's rich natural resources. Enditem


Title: Over 60 Rwandans held in DRC – envoy - 24Tanzania.com
At least 60 Rwandans are detained in different military facilities in the Democratic Republic of Congo capital Kinshasa.
Rwanda’s Ambassador to DR Congo, Amandin Rugira
The Rwandans who include two females, were transferred from Goma, the capital of North Kivu Province following their arrest at the border between the two countries, according to the Rwandan ambassador to DR Congo, Amandin Rugira
“We have reports of Rwandans  who were arrested from the border. So far, about 60, including two females, have been transferred to Kinshasa. They are being held in military bases and intelligence ‘safe houses’,” Rugira said yesterday.
He added that the embassy has written several letters to the DR Congolese Foreign Affairs ministry requesting to visit the detainees, or at least be informed about the condition of the detainees, in vain.
“We are appealing to anyone who has a missing relative or friend to inform us so that we can follow up,” he said. This comes after continued reports of harassment of Rwandans crossing over to the DRC, which officials say escalated this week, after a Congolese man was arrested by Rwanda for assaulting a policeman.
The  man, identified as John Ngoyi, allegedly assaulted a Rwandan policeman who had stopped him at the Goma-Rubavu border for routine security check.
Officer strangled
According to the Mayor of Rubavu District, Sheikh Hassan Bahame, following the Congolese national’s resistance to being checked, the police officer requested him to return back to DRC but he refused.
“Instead, he strangled the officer but other policemen immediately intervened and took him in custody. Following the incident, the DRC border authorities immediately arrested nine people but later released four after learning that they were not Rwandans but Congolese. We don’t know the whereabouts of the five Rwandans and their condition as well,” said Bahame.
Police Spokesperson ACP Theos Badege said the Congolese national will be charged with assaulting a law-enforcer.
Bahame added that since Wednesday, DRC border officials have mounted humiliating body search procedures on every Rwandan who crosses the border.
“Men are stripped of their shirts and subjected to all kinds of humiliation…everything is out of order,” said the Mayor.
Speaking to Saturday Times, Stanislas Gakwandi, a researcher working with a regional research institution based in Goma also confirmed the development and said that, lately, Rwandans are increasingly being targeted and picked.
“This is not the only case of kidnapping, Rwandans are always picked up randomly from the streets,” he said by phone.
Meanwhile, the communications officer at Rwanda’s Directorate of Immigration and Emigration, Ange Sebutege, said yesterday afternoon that two people on Thursday showed up at the Rwandan side of the border saying that they had been abducted in DRC.
“The two, Justin Nzabonimpa, 23, and Daniel Bazirake, 33, arrived at the border on Thursday at 2.30pm and said they had left behind four other Rwandans,” said Sebutege.
A border official on the Rwandan side, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that efforts are underway to secure the release of Rwandans and one of the measures that would be considered is to involve the Expanded Joint Verification Mechanism (EJVM) to ensure that the victims are released.
When contacted for a comment, DRC’s Information minister and government spokesperson Lambert Mende admitted there were Rwandans held in Kinshasa but insisted they had been arrested legally.
Asked about the Rwandan embassy’s failed attempts to access the detainees, Mende referred this newspaper to the Justice minister Wivine Mumba.
However, the latter refused to discuss the matter, only saying, “Do you know the size of this country? Do you expect me to know every detainee?” She then hung up.
Rwanda and DRC have seen their relations plunge to new low over the past one year, following allegations that Kigali supports the M23 rebels who took up arms last year accusing Kinshasa of breaching a previous peace accord.
The government in Kigali has denied the allegations and instead accused Kinshasa of shelling its territory on several occasions, collaborating with FDLR, a militia blamed for the 1994 Genocide against the Tutsi, and arbitrarily arresting and torturing Rwandan nationals.
By Edwin Musoni, The New Times
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*

Name
Email
Website


This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.Learn how your comment data is processed.

Title: Home | Monitor
Some Ugandan career diplomats believe that the majority of the political appointees are unfit and unsuitable to represent the country abroad
The judge's order is intended to facilitate the defense team's cross-examination of forensic scientist Andrew Kizimula Mubiru, scheduled to begin on September 10
More than half of Uganda’s population, estimated at 45.9 million, is under the age of 35, according to preliminary results of the latest national population and housing census conducted in May...
The nine-time champions have had to endure a season dominated by a series of problems.
Cheptegei expressed his gratitude, saying he is excited about building partnerships with supportive organisations
Concentrating government offices and activities in Kampala has created a property asset bubble in the capital that is at odds with how congested and unliveable the city has become
Much as the rear seats were designed to accommodate three passengers, they can comfortably take on four passengers and each will have enough legroom, even for long distances
Several subscribers have cancelled their pay TV subscriptions in favour of streaming services that provide on-demand content, flexible viewing options, and budget-friendly subscription plans.
When he met Aline Kalisa, Rogers Murungi was going through a divorce with the mother of his two children
Like someone had opened the floodgates, other symptoms followed on the heels of her snapping knees. The worst were the hot flashes
Manchester United forward Alejandro Garnacho has the potential to become a world class player, manager Erik ten Hag has said
Nation Media Group © 2024
It's free!
Access the best of Monitor's Independent Journalism

Title: Rebels kill six, kidnap five in east DRCongo | Daily Mail Online
ByAfp
Published:09:33 EDT, 11 November 2018|Updated:09:34 EDT, 11 November 2018


The two attacks near the country's eastern border with Uganda were blamed on the Ugandan Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), one of armed movements operating in the unstable east of the DRC
Suspected Ugandan rebels killed six people, hacking one woman to death, and kidnapped five others -- mostly children -- in the Democratic Republic of Congo's restive east, officials said on Sunday.
Officials blamed the two attacks in Beni near the country's border with Uganda on the Ugandan Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), one of several armed movements operating in the region.
"They entered Beni in the night between Saturday and Sunday and killed five people and looted the shops and the homes," Donat Kibwana, local Beni administrator, told AFP, blaming the ADF.
During separate attack by the same group in another Beni neighbourhood, a woman was hacked to death by machete and five people, including four children were kidnapped, Kizito Bin Hangi, a Beni civic leader, told AFP.
"We thought the military had a security cordon around the town, but nothing was done. It's deplorable to leave the town defenceless," Kizito said.
Soldiers were pursuing the rebels after they came under attack in Mayi-Moya and Beni, an army spokesman said.
Congolese forces in the Beni area have clashed with the ADF, an Islamist armed group that has killed hundreds of people since 2014
The Beni area has for the last four years been under seige from the ADF, an Islamist armed group that has killed hundreds of people since 2014.
The ADF was blamed for killing 15 Tanzanian UN peacekeepers a year ago in eastern DRC.
Unrest in eastern regions is running in parallel with another DRC conflict in central Kasai, casting a shadow over the country's ability to stage presidential elections next month to replace Joseph Kabila.
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group

Title: ADF rebels in DRC kill seven UN peacekeepers | Africanews
Please select your experience
Copy/paste the script below
OTHER WIDGETS
A joint military operation by the army of Democratic Republic of Congo and the United Nations peacekeeping force was dealt a deadly blow on Thursday, when seven UN peacekeepers were killed in the eastern part of the country.
Ten other peacekeeping troops were wounded, and another is missing, UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric said in New York. He added that the dead included six peacekeepers from Malawi and one from Tanzania.
Several Congolese were also killed or wounded in the joint operation, he said.
The deaths mark the biggest loss by the large UN force in the Democratic Republic of Congo since the rebels killed 15 troops nearly a year ago.
Earlier Thursday, General Bernard Commins, deputy head of the MONUSCO force, said ajoint operationhad been launched with DRC troops on Tuesday against the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a jihadi group blamed for bloody attacks on civilians.
The offensive aimed at Kididiwe, about 20 kilometres (12 miles) from Beni, a city of between 200,000 and 300,000 inhabitants, said Commins.
“We are holding Kididiwe at present, after violent fighting with an armed group. At present, we are evacuating wounded Congolese troops and Blue Helmets,” he told AFP. He added he was unable to provide any information about reports at that time of fatalities.
Commins described Kididiwe as a “major stronghold” of the ADF.
The region is also battling an Ebola outbreak that has left more than 200 dead. Insecurity is hampering efforts to contain the disease, the UN spokesman said.
The ADF is an Islamist-rooted group that rose in western Uganda in 1995, led by Jamil Mukulu, a Christian turned Muslim.
Forced out of Uganda, it operates in the border area in the DRC’s North Kivu province.
ALSO READ: Museveni accuses UN, DRC of harbouring ADF rebelsThe ADF has been blamed for recruiting and using child soldiers, killing hundreds of civilians since 2014, as well as 15 Tanzanian peacekeepers, who died in an attack in December 2017.
On Monday, MONUSCO’s head, Leila Zerrougui, sounded the alarm over violence in the eastern DRC, saying it cast a shadow over the country’s elections on December 23.
“I have grown increasingly alarmed over the situation in Beni in recent months, where we continue to face major challenges in implementing our mandate,” she added.
“There is a potential for armed group interference in elections in specific areas throughout eastern DRC,” she said.
MONUSCO has around 17,000 members, making it one of the UN’s biggest peacekeeping operations. Created in 1999 during the Second Congo War, it has an annual budget of $1.153 billion (1.02 billion euros).
AFP


Title: UN chief reports significant results against rebels in DRC | News24
Thursday, 29 August
17 Nov 2018
A joint military operation by UN and Congolese troops to rout rebel forces from their strongholds in the Ebola-hit northeast Democratic Republic of Congo has "achieved quite significant results" and is still under way, the UN peacekeeping chief said on Friday.
Jean-Pierre Lacroix clarified at a news conference that seven UN peacekeepers - six from Malawi and one Tanzanian - were killed in attacks and exchanges of fire on Wednesday with Allied Democratic Forces rebels along with 12 Congolese soldiers. The Security Council said late on Thursday that eight peacekeepers were killed.
Lacroix said the UN and Congolese troops faced two separate attacks by ADF fighters near the regional capital, Beni, which is the largest city affected by the current Ebola outbreak and the centre of efforts to fight it.
"They returned fire. They repelled the first attack successfully," he said. "But then the armed group reorganised and in the second attack, unfortunately our peacekeepers appear to have been killed and injured."
Lacroix said UN and Congolese forces captured an ADF base that was used to attack and threaten Beni.
The UN envoy for DRC, Leila Zerrougui, said six ADF combatants were arrested.
She said the UN and the Congolese army decided to launch the operation near Beni, where ADF and Mai-Mai rebel groups are especially active, to secure the area to allow medical and humanitarian teams to fight the Ebola outbreak. Attacks against military forces and civilians are complicating the response by health officials who are also meeting community resistance.
DRC's health ministry said last week that the Ebola outbreak is the worst in the country's recorded history with 319 confirmed and probable cases. There have been about 200 deaths since the outbreak was declared August 1 in the volatile east.
Eastern DRC, a mineral rich region, is home to many armed groups vying for control.
Health Minister Dr Oly Ilunga Kalenga said last week that "no other epidemic in the world has been as complex as the one we are currently experiencing."
He said response teams "have faced threats, physical assaults, repeated destruction of their equipment, and kidnapping" and two members lost their lives in an attack.
The ADF originated in Uganda as a rebel movement against that country's government and carried out deadly bombings in the 1990s. A military campaign there forced them to relocate to eastern DRC.
Zerrougui estimated the ADF had about 500 fighters who have integrated in the area, married Congolese and engaged in illegal mining.
"They consider this is their land and it was given to them" by DRC's late dictator Mobutu Sese Seko, she said. Mobutu ruled for more than 30 years and was overthrown in 1997.
* Sign up to News24's top Africa news in your
inbox:SUBSCRIBE
TO THE HELLO AFRICA NEWSLETTER
FOLLOW News24 Africa onTwitterandFacebook.
Indulge in the finer things
News24's new magazine is curated for those who understand luxury and want to celebrate the richness of life.
Free to listen for subscribers
News24's August audiobook that’s free to listen to for subscribers is The CEO X Factor by KC Rottok Chesaina.
Can you ace them all?
Today’s crossword, wordflower, sudoku and weekly news quiz
Friday Briefing - weekly
Insight and analysis on the big political story of the week, plus a roundup of top columns and reader favourites.
21 Aug
16 Aug
07 Aug
01 Aug
19 Jul
15 Jul

Use your voice to deepen the dialogue and engage with stories of courage, endurance, community, triumph, and the pursuit of truth in SA.
13 Aug
16 Jul
30 Jun
19 Jun
Contact the public editor with feedback for our journalists, complaints, queries or suggestions about articles on News24.
22 Aug
20 Aug
20 Aug
19 Aug

Title: UN peacekeepers killed in fight with Islamist militias in DRC | Democratic Republic of the Congo | The Guardian
At least seven peacekeepers and 12 Congolese soldiers killed in clashes with ADF
At least seven UN peacekeepers and 12 Congolese soldiers have been killed in clashes with militias in theDemocratic Republic of the Congo. The fighting took place near Beni, in the east, and close to the centre of the country’s worst Ebola outbreak.
The peacekeepers were supporting an offensive by local forces against an Islamist group, the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), officials said.
A UN spokesman said the secretary general, António Guterres, “calls on all armed groups to stop their destabilising activities, which continue to add to the suffering of the population and complicate the response to the ongoingEbolaoutbreak”.
The ADF is responsible for a series of attacks on civilians in recent months. The threat posed by the group is hampering international efforts to contain the virus by preventing medical workers getting to Ebola victims.
The epidemic in Beni and the surrounding villages has infected more than 300 people, killing two-thirds of them. This makes it the third-worst outbreak ever, after one in 2013-16 in westAfrica, when 28,000 people were infected, and in Uganda in 2000, when there were 425 cases.
Eastern DRC has been plagued by banditry and armed insurrectionsfor more than two decades, since the fall of the military ruler Mobutu Sese Seko, but there has been a surge in violence in the past year.
Much of the unrest has been blamed on the ADF, which analysts say is trying to develop links with other jihadists in Africa and beyond.
A report by the Congo Research Group at New York Universitythis week said the ADF had received money from a key financial facilitator who has been linked to Islamic State.
The man, who is on a US government sanctions list, was arrested in Kenya, his home country, in July. The payments were made in recent years but it was not clear when, how much was paid or how the money was used.
The ADF has various streams of funding. UN investigators have discovered evidence of Western Union transfers during 2013 and 2014 from people in the UK to ADF agents in eastern Congo of at least $14,970.84 (£11,675.76).
The UN soldiers who died were from Malawi and Tanzania. Both countries contribute to the longstanding 17,000-member peacekeeping force in violence-prone parts of the DRC.
The ADF was set up by Ugandan Muslims in the 1990s and turned to banditry after crossing Uganda’s western border with the DRC. The Congolese and Ugandan governments accuse the ADF of links to jihadists such as al-Qaida but has offered little evidence to back up these claims.
In recent years, the ADF has tried to align itself with better-known extremist groups, adopting a flag resembling that of Isis and using language popularised by al-Qaida.
“The ADF appear to be … becoming more interested in broadcasting their messages to a wider … audience and are attempting to present themselves within a broader setting of radical jihadist groups,” the report by the Congo Research Group says.
In December, 15 Tanzanian peacekeeperswere killedwhen the group overran a fortified UN camp in eastern DRC.

Title: Two killed in easterm DRC 'militant attack' | News24
Thursday, 29 August
27 Nov 2018
Two people have been killed in an attack by the militant ADF group in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo, a local official said Monday, on the eve of a peace march against the violence.
The killings happened on the Mbau-Kamango road, north of Beni city, said area administrator Donat Kibwana.
"Both bodies are at Oicha's morgue," he added, blaming the attack on the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a shadowy armed group rooted in Ugandan Islamism that has killed hundreds of people since 2014.
A military spokesperson said the Congolese army was fighting against the ADF in the Ebola-plagued region of Beni where the disease has left more than 200 dead.
"The ADF has attempted to raid the outskirts of Oicha (north of Beni). We are pushing them back," said Captain Mak Hazukay.
The government has often blamed the group for killings, robberies and kidnappings, but sometimes it is unclear who the true assailants are.
Often described as Islamist, analysts say the ADF's motivations for attacks can vary in a region where poverty and instability are endemic.
On Tuesday, civil society organisations in Beni plan to hold a demonstration against the violence plaguing the region.
The protest comes as DRC prepares to elect a new president on December 23 as the country aims to turn the page on Joseph Kabila's nearly 18 years in power.
* Sign up to News24's top Africa news in your inbox:SUBSCRIBE TO THE HELLO AFRICA NEWSLETTER

Indulge in the finer things
News24's new magazine is curated for those who understand luxury and want to celebrate the richness of life.
Free to listen for subscribers
News24's August audiobook that’s free to listen to for subscribers is The CEO X Factor by KC Rottok Chesaina.
Can you ace them all?
Today’s crossword, wordflower, sudoku and weekly news quiz
Friday Briefing - weekly
Insight and analysis on the big political story of the week, plus a roundup of top columns and reader favourites.
21 Aug
16 Aug
07 Aug
01 Aug
19 Jul
15 Jul

Use your voice to deepen the dialogue and engage with stories of courage, endurance, community, triumph, and the pursuit of truth in SA.
13 Aug
16 Jul
30 Jun
19 Jun
Contact the public editor with feedback for our journalists, complaints, queries or suggestions about articles on News24.
22 Aug
20 Aug
20 Aug
19 Aug

Title: 
MONUSCO to take "proactive action" after peacekeeper deaths in DRC: UN - Xinhua | English.news.cn


UN Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Jean-Pierre Lacroix (L) speaks during a press conference at the UN headquarters in New York, Nov. 16, 2018. The UN peacekeeping chief said Friday that the UN mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) will take "proactive action" to contain armed groups after the deaths of at least seven peacekeepers in the country. (Xinhua/Li Muzi)
UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 16 (Xinhua) -- The UN peacekeeping chief said Friday that the UN mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) will take "proactive action" to contain armed groups after the deaths of at least seven peacekeepers in the country.
"We have determined more have to be done after careful preparation and coordination with the AFRDC (Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo)," UN Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Jean-Pierre Lacroix told the press in response to the loss of the peacekeepers' lives.
MONUSCO -- the UN peacekeeping mission in the DRC -- will take proactive action to weaken the ability of the armed groups, particularly Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), to harm population as well as to disturb Ebola related efforts, he added.
The UN under chief confirmed the deaths of six Malawian and one Tanzanian peacekeepers and 15 AFRDC members, as well as the injuring of another 12 peacekeepers and 45 AFRDC members. They were killed Wednesday in Beni territory of North Kivu during joint operations against the ADF, which is active in both the DRC and Uganda.
Lacroix said the armed groups have been committing brutal crimes against the population for many years in North Kivu, recalling MONUSCO's loss of 17 Tanzanian peacekeepers as a result of an ADF attack in 2017.
Moreover, in the recent couple of months, North Kivu has seen increased armed group activities, which he said constitutes an obstacle to fight the Ebola epidemic plaguing the area.
Leila Zerrougui, the secretary-general's special representative for the DRC, told the press that local authorities have informed MONUSCO that the armed groups are preparing a mass attack on different places in Beni.
Though MONUSCO has its strongest concentration in North Kivu, Lacroix warned some of the armed groups, particularly the ADF, "has a level of strength, equipment and sophistication, which requires adequate response from our side."
On Thursday, both UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and the Security Council condemned the killing of UN peacekeepers in the DRC.
The UN chief called on all armed groups to stop their destabilizing activities, and encourages the DRC authorities to continue taking the necessary measures to apprehend and bring to justice the perpetrators of attacks against civilians, national security forces and peacekeepers, his spokesperson said.
The members of the Security Council, for their part, underlined deliberate attacks targeting peacekeepers may constitute war crimes under international law, and also called for swift investigation into this attack.
The east of the DRC has been plagued by insurgency for over 20 years. The past year has seen a surge in violence around North Kivu.
12Next12Next
In pics: Shenhu Bay in China's Fujian
Scenery of winding road in SW China's Yunnan
Beautiful scenery of maple forest in east China's Shandong
J-20 fighters join Airshow China to commemorate 69th anniv. of PLA Air Force
Scenery of Lugu Lake in China's Yunnan
Shaolin Kung Fu show warmly applauded in Houston
Giant panda plays outdoors after snowfall in NE China
Monkeys play at Huaguo Mountain Scenic Area in Lianyungang, E China

Title: Indian peacekeeper injured following attack by rebel forces in Democratic Republic of Congo's North Kivu province – Firstpost
The spokesperson for Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said that the attack in Congo was carried out by “suspected” Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) and a member of the Indian police unit stationed there was ’lightly wounded.'
United Nations:An attack by a rebel group has injured an Indian police peacekeeper serving an UN operation in a Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) area facing the Ebola crisis, an UN official said.
Stephane Dujarric, the spokesperson for Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said on Monday that the attack was carried out by “suspected” Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) late on Friday evening in the Boikene area in North Kivu Province.
“The member of the Indian police unit stationed there was “lightly wounded,” he said. He, however, did not identify the injured person.
The outbreak of Ebola disease has intensified the crisis in the DRC that has been in the throes of ongoing battles with marauding rebel forces that have claimed the lives of 154 peacekeepers, 15 of them Indians.
The World Health Organisation said it evacuated 16 of its staff dealing with Ebola in the area after their residence was hit on Friday by a shell that, however, did not explode.
Last week, one Tanzanian and six Malawaian peacekeepers were killed by the AFD in the Beni territory near Boikene.
The latest victims were members of the Force Intervention Brigade made up of South African, Malawian and Tanzanian peacekeepers, which operates jointly with DRC military.
The Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations, Jean-Pierre Lacroix, toldIANSin an interview on Friday that although Indian peacekeepers “are not part of the Force Intervention Brigade,” they were active in other areas.
“Violence is not limited to North Kivu, even though it is currently one of the most affected,” he said.
For example, “the Indians played a major role in repelling when the town of Uvira was attacked”, he said.
Mai-Mai militias attacked Uvira, the second largest town in the South Kivu province, in 2017.
There were 276 Indian police personnel serving as peacekeepers in the UN Organisation Stabilisation Mission in the DRC that is better known by its French initials, MONUSCO.
In addition, the 2,627 Indian troops serving in the mission make up its second largest contingent.
MONUSCO radio gave details of an ADF group attack in the area but it was not clear if the Indian police peacekeeper was injured in that action.
The radio said that the ADF raided the Boikene area of Rwenzori in North Kivu’s Beni, and attacked a MONUSCO base on Friday evening.
The peacekeepers reacted immediately and repulsed the attack after exchanges of fire, the radio said.
“The UN Mission and the Congolese armed forces (FARDC) have increased security measures in the Beni area, including around hotels occupied by UN personnel and humanitarian workers who are focused on the Ebola response, and they have also expanded their support of police operations in the Beni area,” Dujarric said.
The Force Intervention Brigade intensified its campaign against the ADF on Tuesday last week “in response to repeated attacks against the civilian population of the Beni region,” according to MONUSCO.
Find us on YouTube
is on YouTube
Copyright @ 2024. Firstpost - All Rights Reserved

Title: 
Security Council condemns killing of UN peacekeepers, national soldiers in DRC - Xinhua | English.news.cn

UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 15 (Xinhua) -- The UN Security Council on Thursday condemned the killing of at least 20 soldiers during operations against insurgents in the east of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
In a press statement, the council members expressed condolences to the families of the killed, including seven Malawian and one Tanzanian UN peacekeepers and at least 12 DRC soldiers, and wished a speedy recovery to the injured.
The soldiers were killed Wednesday during joint operations of the UN peacekeeping mission known as MONUSCO and the Armed Forces of the DRC against the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a rebel group in DRC and Uganda, in Beni territory of North Kivu.
The council members conveyed their support to the Malawian and Tanzanian contingents, "which continue to operate in an exceptionally difficult environment to protect local populations against the attacks of the ADF and other armed groups."
The members underlined deliberate attacks targeting peacekeepers may constitute war crimes under international law, and called on the DRC authorities to swiftly investigate this attack and bring the perpetrators to justice.
The east of the DRC has been plagued by insurgency for over 20 years. The past year has seen a surge in violence around North Kivu.
Xi arrives in PNG for state visit, APEC meeting
Xi underlines reform on military policies, institutions
Chinese premier calls for consultation, mutual openness to maintain peace, prosperity in East Asia
Major exhibition held to commemorate 40th anniv. of China's reform and opening-up in Beijing
J-20 fighters join Airshow China to commemorate 69th anniv. of PLA Air Force
Scenery of Lugu Lake in China's Yunnan
Shaolin Kung Fu show warmly applauded in Houston
Giant panda plays outdoors after snowfall in NE China

Title: MSN


Title: 
MONUSCO to take "proactive action" after peacekeeper deaths in DRC: UN - Xinhua | English.news.cn

UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 16 (Xinhua) -- The UN peacekeeping chief said Friday that the UN mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) will take "proactive action" to contain armed groups after the deaths of at least seven peacekeepers in the country.
"We have determined more have to be done after careful preparation and coordination with the AFRDC (Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo)," UN Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Jean-Pierre Lacroix told the press in response to the loss of the peacekeepers' lives.
MONUSCO -- the UN peacekeeping mission in the DRC -- will take proactive action to weaken the ability of the armed groups, particularly Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), to harm population as well as to disturb Ebola related efforts, he added.
The UN under chief confirmed the deaths of six Malawian and one Tanzanian peacekeepers and 15 AFRDC members, as well as the injuring of another 12 peacekeepers and 45 AFRDC members. They were killed Wednesday in Beni territory of North Kivu during joint operations against the ADF, which is active in both the DRC and Uganda.
Lacroix said the armed groups have been committing brutal crimes against the population for many years in North Kivu, recalling MONUSCO's loss of 17 Tanzanian peacekeepers as a result of an ADF attack in 2017.
Moreover, in the recent couple of months, North Kivu has seen increased armed group activities, which he said constitutes an obstacle to fight the Ebola epidemic plaguing the area.
Leila Zerrougui, the secretary-general's special representative for the DRC, told the press that local authorities have informed MONUSCO that the armed groups are preparing a mass attack on different places in Beni.
Though MONUSCO has its strongest concentration in North Kivu, Lacroix warned some of the armed groups, particularly the ADF, "has a level of strength, equipment and sophistication, which requires adequate response from our side."
China, Pacific island countries lift ties to comprehensive strategic partnership
Xi seeks to boost China-PNG relations with maiden state visit
China, PNG agree on comprehensive strategic partnership
Xi, O'Neill unveil PNG, China friendship school
In pics: Shenhu Bay in China's Fujian
Scenery of winding road in SW China's Yunnan
Beautiful scenery of maple forest in east China's Shandong
J-20 fighters join Airshow China to commemorate 69th anniv. of PLA Air Force

Title: JAVA303: Daftar Slot Online Gacor Hari Ini & Situs Slot Terpercaya
JAVA303 adalah situsslot gacor hari inidengan winrate tertinggi di Indonesia hingga 98.99%. Kami menyediakan banyak game slot online gampang menang untuk para pemain yang ingin merasakan sensasi maxwin. JAVA303 telah bekerjasama dengan berbagai provider slot terpercaya dan memiliki sertifikat resmi di dunia, sehingga bermain disini akan aman 100%.
Perlu Anda ketahui, link situs slot onlineJAVA303telah menyiapkan promo dan bonus para member. Ayo daftarkan diri Anda sekarang untuk mendapatkan keuntungan berkali-kali lipat. Main slot gacor yang aman dan nyaman juga menguntungkan, tempatnya hanya di JAVA303!
Pragmatic Play adalah provider slot terkemuka di dunia, khususnya sangat terkenal di pasaranslot onlineIndonesia. Provider slot terpercaya ini memiliki winrate tertinggi hingga 98.99%. Slot viral saat ini diantaranya Gates of Olympus 1000, Starlight Princes, dan Sweet Bonanza yang selalu menjadi pilihan utama para pemain belakangan ini.
Provider gameslot gacordengan winrate tertinggi lainnya adalah Pocket Games Soft (PG Soft) yang merupakan pelopor dari game terkenal saat ini Mahjong Ways. PG Soft adalah perusahaan pengembang game mobile terkenal, terutama dalam genre slot online, winrate saat ini yang dimilikinya cukup tinggi hingga 97.95%.
Microgaming adalah provider judi online tertua di dunia yang didirikan pada tahun 1994, perusahaan ini telah berperan penting dalam perkembangan industri perjudian online dengan berbagai inovasi dan kontribusi signifikan. Situs slot gacor ini memiliki winrate 99.05% yang cukup konsisten dalam meningkatkan pengalaman bermain.
IDNSlot adalah bagian dari IDNPlay, sebuah perusahaan pengembang game online yang berbasis di Asia dan terkenal dengan produk-produk berkualitas tinggi dalam industri perjudian online. IDNSlot memiliki slot winrate tertinggi hingga 97.45% dengan berbagai game slot gampang menang saat ini.
Habanero adalah provider paling dikagumi player Indonesia karena memiliki game slot winrate tertinggi mencapai 98.15%. Berkat kemampuannya mengembangkan berbagai slot gacor gampang menang, provider ini memiliki penghargaan di industri untuk keunggulan dalam desain permainan dan teknologi.
Bocoranslot paling gacorhari ini kami berikan secara khusus untuk mempermudah Anda dalam meraih kemenangan terbesar di JAVA303, berikut adalah:
Main slot online paling gacor di JAVA303 akan menjadi momen paling menggembirakan yang tak akan pernah anda lupakan. Disini anda bisa menang maxwin bernilai ribuan kali lipat nominal taruhan. Momen itu bisa dengan cepat anda nikmati, terutama bila anda menerapkan tips-tips berikut ini.
RTP -Return to Player adalah rata-rata nilai taruhan yang bakal dikembalikan oleh mesin kepada pemain setelah durasi putaran bet tertentu. Nilai return ini diinformasikan dalam persentase, dimana makin tinggi nilai persentsenya maka semakin bagus. Sebaiknya pilih mesin slot online ber-RTP di atas 95%.
Mekanisme, Paylines, dan Fitur jadi aspek terpenting setelah melihat nilai RTP slot. Oleh sebab itu wajib bagi anda memahami ketiganya sebelum benar-benar serius dengan nominal bet yang dipasang. Mekanisme slot online umumnya meliputi konfigurasi reels, akselerasi spin, auto spin, sampai dengan mekanisme kemenangan beruntun. Paylines dan Fitur sangat berpengaruh kepada nilai maxwin slot. Semua informasi ini bisa anda pahami dengan membuka menu info di dalam game dan dengan memainkan slot demo.
JAVA303 menyiapkan segudang bonus dan promosi sebagai hadiah bagi para member yang telah memilih untuk bermain disini. Program bonus yang sedang bergulir saat ini antara lain; Bonus New Member 100%, Lucky Spin, Bonus Absensi 10 Juta, Bonus Tambahan Kredit, dan masih banyak lagi. Cek dan silahkan klaim dengan aktif menjadi memberi disini.
Mengatur batas taruhan adalah kunci sukses saat bermain slot online di JAVA303. Dengan menetapkan batas taruhan yang sesuai dengan anggaran Anda, Anda dapat mengontrol pengeluaran dan memaksimalkan peluang kemenangan. Disiplin dalam mengikuti batas ini akan membantu Anda menikmati permainan tanpa tekanan finansial, serta meningkatkan pengalaman bermain secara keseluruhan. Tetap bijak dan bertaruhlah dengan tanggung jawab.
Dengan memahami pola dan tren yang muncul, Anda bisa mengidentifikasi waktu yang tepat untuk meningkatkan taruhan atau kapan sebaiknya berhenti. Ini tidak hanya meningkatkan peluang kemenangan, tetapi juga membantu Anda bermain lebih strategis dan efisien. Gunakan pengetahuan ini untuk meraih hasil maksimal dari setiap putaran.
Dengan menerapkan tips-tips yang telah kami bagikan, Anda dapat menikmati pengalaman bermain slot online di JAVA303 dengan lebih baik dan peluang menang yang lebih tinggi. Ingatlah untuk selalu bermain dengan bijak, mengatur batas taruhan, dan mengamati pola permainan. Selamat bermain dan semoga keberuntungan selalu menyertai Anda!

Title: Indian peacekeeper injured in DRC rebel attack
United Nations, Nov 20 :An attack by a rebel group has injured an Indian police peacekeeper serving an UN operation in a Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) area facing the Ebola crisis, an UN official said.
Stephane Dujarric, the spokesperson for Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said on Monday that the attack was carried out by "suspected" Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) late on Friday evening in the Boikene area in North Kivu Province.
"The member of the Indian police unit stationed there was "lightly wounded," he said. He, however, did not identify the injured person.
The outbreak of Ebola disease has intensified the crisis in the DRC that has been in the throes of ongoing battles with marauding rebel forces that have claimed the lives of 154 peacekeepers, 15 of them Indians.
TheWorld Health Organisationsaid it evacuated 16 of its staff dealing with Ebola in the area after their residence was hit on Friday by a shell that, however, did not explode.
Last week, one Tanzanian and six Malawaian peacekeepers were killed by the AFD in the Beni territory near Boikene.
The latest victims were members of the Force Intervention Brigade made up of South African, Malawian and Tanzanian peacekeepers, which operates jointly with DRC military.
The Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations, Jean-Pierre Lacroix, told IANS in an interview on Friday that although Indian peacekeepers "are not part of the Force Intervention Brigade," they were active in other areas.
"Violence is not limited to North Kivu, even though it is currently one of the most affected," he said.
For example, "the Indians played a major role in repelling when the town of Uvira was attacked", he said.
Mai-Mai militias attacked Uvira, the second largest town in the South Kivu province, in 2017.
There were 276 Indian police personnel serving as peacekeepers in the UN Organisation Stabilisation Mission in the DRC that is better known by its French initials, MONUSCO.
In addition, the 2,627 Indian troops serving in the mission make up its second largest contingent.
MONUSCO radio gave details of an ADF group attack in the area but it was not clear if the Indian police peacekeeper was injured in that action.
The radio said that the ADF raided the Boikene area of Rwenzori in North Kivu's Beni, and attacked a MONUSCO base on Friday evening.
The peacekeepers reacted immediately and repulsed the attack after exchanges of fire, the radio said.
"The UN Mission and the Congolese armed forces (FARDC) have increased security measures in the Beni area, including around hotels occupied by UN personnel and humanitarian workers who are focused on the Ebola response, and they have also expanded their support of police operations in the Beni area," Dujarric said.
The Force Intervention Brigade intensified its campaign against the ADF on Tuesday last week "in response to repeated attacks against the civilian population of the Beni region," according to MONUSCO.
(Arul Louis can be reached at arul.l@ians.in and followed on Twitter @arulouis)

Title: Security Council condemns killing of UN peacekeepers, national soldiers in DRC - China.org.cn
视频播放位置
UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 15 (Xinhua) -- The UN Security Council on Thursday condemned the killing of at least 20 soldiers during operations against insurgents in the east of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
In a press statement, the council members expressed condolences to the families of the killed, including seven Malawian and one Tanzanian UN peacekeepers and at least 12 DRC soldiers, and wished a speedy recovery to the injured.
The soldiers were killed Wednesday during joint operations of the UN peacekeeping mission known as MONUSCO and the Armed Forces of the DRC against the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a rebel group in DRC and Uganda, in Beni territory of North Kivu.
The council members conveyed their support to the Malawian and Tanzanian contingents, "which continue to operate in an exceptionally difficult environment to protect local populations against the attacks of the ADF and other armed groups."
The members underlined deliberate attacks targeting peacekeepers may constitute war crimes under international law, and called on the DRC authorities to swiftly investigate this attack and bring the perpetrators to justice.
The east of the DRC has been plagued by insurgency for over 20 years. The past year has seen a surge in violence around North Kivu. Enditem


Title: Uganda rebels fire on UN helicopter in eastern DRC | News24
Thursday, 29 August
22 Nov 2018
Ugandan rebels on Thursday fired on a UN helicopter in an attack in the volatile east of Democratic Republic of Congo, though there were no victims, UN sources said.
"One of our helicopters was fired on in Semuliki valley by rebels - we reacted in legitimate defence," French General Bernard Commins, deputy head of the MONUSCO UN peacekeeping force told AFP.
"The aircraft was able to land without problems but it had been hit," added Commins.
The attack came in the eastern region of Beni, where last week eight UN peacekeepers died in a clash with Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a Ugandan jihadist group blamed for bloody attacks on civilians.
The region is rich in coltan, a mineral which when refined is a key element in electronic devices.
The Islamist-rooted ADF, active in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo since 1995, killed 15 peacekeepers in an attack in November last year at Semuliki near the Ugandan border.
In the worst skirmish since then, last week's attack saw eight killed and 12 injured while 12 DRC soldiers backing the UN force also died.
The group, forced out of Uganda as they oppose President Yoweri Museveni, live in the jungle and operate in the border area in the DRC's North Kivu province. The ADF is led by Jamil Mukulu, a Christian turned Muslim.
The group has yet to launch large-scale attacks inside Uganda but is blamed for the deaths of hundreds of civilians since late 2014.
MONUSCO has around 17 000 members, making it one of the UN's biggest peacekeeping operations. Created in 1999 during the Second Congo War, it has an annual budget of $1.153 billion.
* Sign up to News24's top Africa news in your
inbox:SUBSCRIBE
TO THE HELLO AFRICA NEWSLETTER
FOLLOW News24 Africa onTwitterandFacebook.
Indulge in the finer things
News24's new magazine is curated for those who understand luxury and want to celebrate the richness of life.
Free to listen for subscribers
News24's August audiobook that’s free to listen to for subscribers is The CEO X Factor by KC Rottok Chesaina.
Can you ace them all?
Today’s crossword, wordflower, sudoku and weekly news quiz
Friday Briefing - weekly
Insight and analysis on the big political story of the week, plus a roundup of top columns and reader favourites.
21 Aug
16 Aug
07 Aug
01 Aug
19 Jul
15 Jul

Use your voice to deepen the dialogue and engage with stories of courage, endurance, community, triumph, and the pursuit of truth in SA.
13 Aug
16 Jul
30 Jun
19 Jun
Contact the public editor with feedback for our journalists, complaints, queries or suggestions about articles on News24.
22 Aug
20 Aug
20 Aug
19 Aug

Title: 
Security Council condemns killing of UN peacekeepers, national soldiers in DRC - Xinhua | English.news.cn


Congolese men push their makeshift bicycle past peacekeepers from India serving, in the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as they ride on patrol in the town of Kiwanja, Oct. 19, 2018. (REUTERS Photo)
UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 15 (Xinhua) -- The UN Security Council on Thursday condemned the killing of at least 20 soldiers during operations against insurgents in the east of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
In a press statement, the council members expressed condolences to the families of the killed, including seven Malawian and one Tanzanian UN peacekeepers and at least 12 DRC soldiers, and wished a speedy recovery to the injured.
The soldiers were killed Wednesday during joint operations of the UN peacekeeping mission known as MONUSCO and the Armed Forces of the DRC against the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a rebel group in DRC and Uganda, in Beni territory of North Kivu.
The council members conveyed their support to the Malawian and Tanzanian contingents, "which continue to operate in an exceptionally difficult environment to protect local populations against the attacks of the ADF and other armed groups."
The members underlined deliberate attacks targeting peacekeepers may constitute war crimes under international law, and called on the DRC authorities to swiftly investigate this attack and bring the perpetrators to justice.
The east of the DRC has been plagued by insurgency for over 20 years. The past year has seen a surge in violence around North Kivu.

Congolese men push their makeshift bicycle past peacekeepers from India serving, in the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as they ride on patrol in the town of Kiwanja, Oct. 19, 2018. (REUTERS Photo)
UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 15 (Xinhua) -- The UN Security Council on Thursday condemned the killing of at least 20 soldiers during operations against insurgents in the east of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
In a press statement, the council members expressed condolences to the families of the killed, including seven Malawian and one Tanzanian UN peacekeepers and at least 12 DRC soldiers, and wished a speedy recovery to the injured.
The soldiers were killed Wednesday during joint operations of the UN peacekeeping mission known as MONUSCO and the Armed Forces of the DRC against the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a rebel group in DRC and Uganda, in Beni territory of North Kivu.
The council members conveyed their support to the Malawian and Tanzanian contingents, "which continue to operate in an exceptionally difficult environment to protect local populations against the attacks of the ADF and other armed groups."
The members underlined deliberate attacks targeting peacekeepers may constitute war crimes under international law, and called on the DRC authorities to swiftly investigate this attack and bring the perpetrators to justice.
The east of the DRC has been plagued by insurgency for over 20 years. The past year has seen a surge in violence around North Kivu.
Copyright © 2000 - 2016 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.

Title: 
UN chief condemns killing of peacekeepers in DRC - Xinhua | English.news.cn

UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 15 (Xinhua) -- UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres condemned the killing of UN peacekeepers on operations in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), his spokesperson said Thursday.
At least 20 soldiers were killed, including seven Malawian and one Tanzanian UN peacekeepers and 12 people from the DRC, according to latest report.
The peacekeepers were killed Wednesday during joint operations in North Kivu province near the Ugandan border with the Armed Forces of the DRC against the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a rebel group in both the DRC and Uganda.
"The secretary-general expresses his deepest sympathy and heartfelt condolences to the families of the killed peacekeepers and the governments and people of the Republic of Malawi and the United Republic of Tanzania," the spokesperson said in a statement.
Guterres conveyed his support to the Malawian and Tanzanian contingents, "which continue to operate in an exceptionally difficult environment to protect local populations against the attacks of the ADF and other armed groups," it added.
The UN chief called on all armed groups to stop their destabilizing activities, and encourages the DRC authorities to continue taking the necessary measures to apprehend and bring to justice the perpetrators of attacks against civilians, national security forces and peacekeepers, the statement said.
The east of the DRC has been plagued by insurgency for over 20 years. The past year has seen a surge in violence around North Kivu.
Xi arrives in PNG for state visit, APEC meeting
Xi underlines reform on military policies, institutions
Chinese premier calls for consultation, mutual openness to maintain peace, prosperity in East Asia
Major exhibition held to commemorate 40th anniv. of China's reform and opening-up in Beijing
In pics: Shenhu Bay in China's Fujian
Scenery of winding road in SW China's Yunnan
Beautiful scenery of maple forest in east China's Shandong
J-20 fighters join Airshow China to commemorate 69th anniv. of PLA Air Force

Title: 
MONUSCO to take "proactive action" after peacekeeper deaths in DRC: UN - Xinhua | English.news.cn


A young UN peacekeeper keeps watch out of a patrol vehicle as it drives through the Djugu area of Ituri, Democratic Republic of the Congo, on March 27, 2018. (AFP Photo)
UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 16 (Xinhua) -- The UN peacekeeping chief said Friday that the UN mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) will take "proactive action" to contain armed groups after the deaths of at least seven peacekeepers in the country.
"We have determined more have to be done after careful preparation and coordination with the AFRDC (Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo)," UN Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Jean-Pierre Lacroix told the press in response to the loss of the peacekeepers' lives.
MONUSCO -- the UN peacekeeping mission in the DRC -- will take proactive action to weaken the ability of the armed groups, particularly Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), to harm population as well as to disturb Ebola related efforts, he added.
The UN under chief confirmed the deaths of six Malawian and one Tanzanian peacekeepers and 15 AFRDC members, as well as the injuring of another 12 peacekeepers and 45 AFRDC members. They were killed Wednesday in Beni territory of North Kivu during joint operations against the ADF, which is active in both the DRC and Uganda.
Lacroix said the armed groups have been committing brutal crimes against the population for many years in North Kivu, recalling MONUSCO's loss of 17 Tanzanian peacekeepers as a result of an ADF attack in 2017.
Moreover, in the recent couple of months, North Kivu has seen increased armed group activities, which he said constitutes an obstacle to fight the Ebola epidemic plaguing the area.
Leila Zerrougui, the secretary-general's special representative for the DRC, told the press that local authorities have informed MONUSCO that the armed groups are preparing a mass attack on different places in Beni.
Though MONUSCO has its strongest concentration in North Kivu, Lacroix warned some of the armed groups, particularly the ADF, "has a level of strength, equipment and sophistication, which requires adequate response from our side."

A young UN peacekeeper keeps watch out of a patrol vehicle as it drives through the Djugu area of Ituri, Democratic Republic of the Congo, on March 27, 2018. (AFP Photo)
UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 16 (Xinhua) -- The UN peacekeeping chief said Friday that the UN mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) will take "proactive action" to contain armed groups after the deaths of at least seven peacekeepers in the country.
"We have determined more have to be done after careful preparation and coordination with the AFRDC (Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo)," UN Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Jean-Pierre Lacroix told the press in response to the loss of the peacekeepers' lives.
MONUSCO -- the UN peacekeeping mission in the DRC -- will take proactive action to weaken the ability of the armed groups, particularly Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), to harm population as well as to disturb Ebola related efforts, he added.
The UN under chief confirmed the deaths of six Malawian and one Tanzanian peacekeepers and 15 AFRDC members, as well as the injuring of another 12 peacekeepers and 45 AFRDC members. They were killed Wednesday in Beni territory of North Kivu during joint operations against the ADF, which is active in both the DRC and Uganda.
Lacroix said the armed groups have been committing brutal crimes against the population for many years in North Kivu, recalling MONUSCO's loss of 17 Tanzanian peacekeepers as a result of an ADF attack in 2017.
Moreover, in the recent couple of months, North Kivu has seen increased armed group activities, which he said constitutes an obstacle to fight the Ebola epidemic plaguing the area.
Leila Zerrougui, the secretary-general's special representative for the DRC, told the press that local authorities have informed MONUSCO that the armed groups are preparing a mass attack on different places in Beni.
Though MONUSCO has its strongest concentration in North Kivu, Lacroix warned some of the armed groups, particularly the ADF, "has a level of strength, equipment and sophistication, which requires adequate response from our side."
Copyright © 2000 - 2016 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.