Title:  Treasury Sanctions Individuals Destabilizing the Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo
ForgotUsernameorPassword

Date
(MENAFNEditorial) WASHINGTON D.C., United States of America, February 6, 2018/APO Group/ --Today (February 5, 2018), the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) sanctioned four individuals who have engaged in destabilizing activities responsible for prolonging the conflict in theDemocraticRepublic of Congo (DRC) and contributing to widespread poverty, chronic food insecurity, and population displacement.As a result of today's actions, all of the designated persons' assets within U.S. jurisdiction are blocked, and U.S. persons are generally prohibited from engaging in transactions with them."We are targeting human rights abusers perpetuating the horrific conflictin the easternDRC who have contributed to the tremendous suffering of the Congolese people.They are responsible for horrendous acts includingsexual abuse and forced military recruitment of children into positions requiring them to commit acts of violence, among other atrocities," said John E. Smith, OFAC Director. "The United States stands in solidarity with the Congolese people against those who destabilize the region."On January 25, 2018, the United Nations reported that more than 800,000 children have been forced from their homes by violence and armed clashes in eastern DRC in what the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) calls "one of the largest displacement crises in the world for children."UNICEF reports that children in the eastern DRC are also being sexually abused and recruited to fight. UNICEF and its partners have identified more than 800 cases of sexual abuse, and recent data shows that more than 3,000 children have been recruited by militias and armed groups over the past year.OFAC acted pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13413, as amended by E.O. 13671, which targets actions threatening the peace, security, and stability of the DRC.OFAC's action implements the listings of these four individuals by the United Nations Security Council on February 2, 2018 pursuant to U.N. Security Council Resolution 1533 (2004).Muhindo Akili MundosMuhindo Akili Mundos (Mundos) is an Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (FARDC) General, Commander of the 31st Brigade.He was appointed commander of the FARDC's Operational Sector in the areas of Beni and Lubero, including Operation Sukola I against the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) in September 2014. He remained in that position until June 2015.The FARDC launched Operation Sukola I on January 17, 2014 to track down all active armed groups in Beni Territory, North Kivu Province, especially the Ugandan rebel group ADF and the Rwandan rebel group Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR).After Mundos took over Sukola I operations, the FARDC allegedly failed to show up for planned joint patrol and operation with the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the DRC (MONUSCO), intentionally led MONUSCO forces away from massacre sites, and prohibited visits to such sites.Mundos was accused of the brutal crackdown on the civilian population, and for cooperating profitably with rebel groups in the region.Mundos and other influential FARDC officers in eastern DRC had business and operational relationships with the ADF.As of 2014, Mundos reportedly also maintained relationships with the FDLR.Some of Mundos's staff were involved in the illegal commerce of wood, cocoa, and other goods.In 2014 there was a substantial deterioration of the security situation in the greater Beni region of North Kivu province.There were nine reported incidents with more than 100 civilians, as well as an unspecified number of Congolese soldiers killed and a large number of civilians abducted.Additionally, civilians and local authorities accused the FARDC under Mundos's command of failing to intervene during extremist group raids by the ADF, including attacks targeting civilians.Mundos recruited and equipped former fighters from local armed groups who participated in killings and massacres.While commander of the FARDC's Sukola I operation, Mundos also reportedly commanded and provided support to a faction of an ADF sub-group known as the ADF-Mwalika.Under Mundos's command, the ADF-Mwalika committed attacks against civilians.FARDC fighters under Mundos's command provided additional support to the ADF-Mwalika during these operations.Mundos is suspected of being involved in the planning and execution of a 2014 attack on a MONUSCO patrol in Beni Territory.Gédéon Kyungu MutangaGédéon Kyungu Mutanga (Gédéon) joined the Mai Mai movement in 1999, which saw the widespread formation of community-based armed groups in the eastern DRC.He commanded one of the most active groups in the province of Katanga from 2003 until 2006, when he approached UN Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo forces to integrate into the disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration process.Gédéon was convicted by a DRC court in 2009 for crimes against humanity that included murder, arbitrary executions, torture, cannibalism, mutilation, rape, and sexual slavery. In 2011, Gédéon escaped from a Lubumbashi prison, reconstituted his militia, and resumed attacks on local populations.After his escape from prison, Gédéon reconstituted his Mai Mai group and began allying his movement with that of the Bakata Katanga, known also as Kata Katanga. As of March 2014, the two groups were considered one group under the presumed leadership of Gédéon.Kata Katanga is responsible for serious human rights abuses and war crimes, with militants carrying out small-scale attacks during 2013 in Lubumbashi and primarily targeting civilians in rural areas.The situation in central Katanga has been unstable since Gédéon's escape from prison.Returning to his former fiefdom in the area between Mitwaba and Manono, he remobilized many of his former fighters and forcibly recruited a large number of children.Between the end of 2011 and March 2013, the number of internally displaced persons increased 452 percent to an estimated 353,931 people in Katanga province.In 2013, Gédéon and his militia attacked Lubumbashi, killing at least 25 people.Very young children were reportedly being actively recruited to join the Mai Mai Gédéon group whenever it passed through inhabited areas.Since the beginning of 2013, MONUSCO and UNICEF had removed 163 children from the Bakata Katanga.NICEF separated an additional 30 children from the group upon its arrival at Ndolo military prison in Kinshasa. On August 11 and 15, 2013, 82 children aged between eight and 17 years old were separated from the Bakata Katanga armed group. The release notes that the children were identified and separated through concerted efforts of child protection officers working in Katanga province, and had reportedly been recruited during the past six months by Bakata Katanga.During the night of April 12, 2014, Bakata Katanga attacked villages in Pweto Territory, Katanga Province, where they burned approximately 100 homes, a hospital, and a pharmacy, and kidnapped an unknown number of inhabitants, with some residents fleeing to other areas.The militia continued to set villages on fire in the area, and the recurrence of violence made it difficult for humanitarians to take care of internally displaced people in the region.This resulted in some humanitarian organizations suspending their activities in the region.Gédéon was the Bakata Katanga militia commander with hundreds of followers at the time of his surrender to DRC government authorities on October 11, 2016.However, only about 60-100 fighters entered Lubumbashi with Gédéon, out of hundreds of fighters that had moved to near Lubumbashi in August 2016 to negotiate the group's surrender.When Gédéon surrendered in October 2016, he received a "hero's welcome" from the Haut Katanga governor and several high-ranking military figures during a ceremony at a Lubumbashi stadium.Some reports allege that the DRC government brought Gédéon back both to intimidate critics of President Kabila in Lubumbashi and to help DRC government security forces respond to any potential political unrest in the city. As of late October 2016, Gédéon does not appear to be imprisoned, nor is he is under house arrest, despite the presence of some security forces in front of his house in Lubumbashi. As of March 2017, some of Gédéon's militia fighters remain in the bush, and Gédéon continues to be lodged at government expense.Guidon Shimiray MwissaGuidon Shimiray Mwissa (Mwissa) participated in the creation of the Nduma defense du Congo (NDC) armed group, prior to breaking away to create his own group, the Nduma Defence of Congo-Renové (NDC-R) in 2014. The NDC-R uses child soldiers and deployed them in armed conflict. The NDC-R is also accused of human rights abuses in the eastern provinces, and of imposing illegal taxes in gold mining areas and using the proceeds to purchase weapons in violation of the arms embargo against the DRC. Mwissa came to power with the help of some local politicians, traders, and a few FARDC officers. These individuals supported Mwissa to control the mineral rich areas in DRC's Walikale Territory.Fighting between NDC-R and Mai Mai Cheka militia in 2015 led to villages in the vicinity being burned and plundered, and non-governmental organizations were unable to complete their work and provide aid to the population in those areas.The NDC-R was also responsible for the crisis in the Bulehusa area in 2016 when armed fighters associated with the NDC-R militia moved into the area following months of attacks by the NDC-R and other groups. The NDC-R leaders reportedly threatened Hutu internally-displaced persons to force them to leave the area. Internally displaced person site leaders were told the Hutu population must leave within 48 hours. On June 12, the NDC-R and an allied Mai Mai group returned to burn Hutu-owned huts, killing at least four and wounding 20, though a Hutu spokesman later said 27 people were killed. In July 2016, incursions by approximately 30 NDC-R fighters in North Kivu caused thousands of Hutu families to flee. The NDC-R tried to prevent United Nations humanitarian food distributions in the Bulehusa area in June 2016, and has killed over 30 civilians on the basis of their ethnicity.Lucien NzabamwitaLucien Nzabamwita (Nzabamwita) is a military leader of the FDLR. On January 3, 2013 OFAC designated the FDLR for fomenting violence and instability in the DRC. The FDLR is an armed group whose members include individuals responsible for the 1994 Rwandan genocide. The group has been active in eastern DRC for years, destroying communities, committing heinous abuses, including sexual violence and the illegal recruitment and use of child soldiers, and causing mass-displacement. As of late 2015, Nzabamwita was the commander of the FDLR- Forces Combattantes Abacunguzi (FOCA), the armed wing of the FDLR, Reserve Brigade, a unit that protects FDLR headquarters. In late 2016, Nzabamwita became the head of the FDLR-FOCA Group 5.Distributed by APO Group on behalf of U.S. Department of the Treasury.MENAFN0602201800701784ID1096436189
Today (February 5, 2018), the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) sanctioned four individuals who have engaged in destabilizing activities responsible for prolonging the conflict in theDemocraticRepublic of Congo (DRC) and contributing to widespread poverty, chronic food insecurity, and population displacement.As a result of today's actions, all of the designated persons' assets within U.S. jurisdiction are blocked, and U.S. persons are generally prohibited from engaging in transactions with them.

"We are targeting human rights abusers perpetuating the horrific conflictin the easternDRC who have contributed to the tremendous suffering of the Congolese people.They are responsible for horrendous acts includingsexual abuse and forced military recruitment of children into positions requiring them to commit acts of violence, among other atrocities," said John E. Smith, OFAC Director. "The United States stands in solidarity with the Congolese people against those who destabilize the region."
On January 25, 2018, the United Nations reported that more than 800,000 children have been forced from their homes by violence and armed clashes in eastern DRC in what the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) calls "one of the largest displacement crises in the world for children."UNICEF reports that children in the eastern DRC are also being sexually abused and recruited to fight. UNICEF and its partners have identified more than 800 cases of sexual abuse, and recent data shows that more than 3,000 children have been recruited by militias and armed groups over the past year.
OFAC acted pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13413, as amended by E.O. 13671, which targets actions threatening the peace, security, and stability of the DRC.OFAC's action implements the listings of these four individuals by the United Nations Security Council on February 2, 2018 pursuant to U.N. Security Council Resolution 1533 (2004).
Muhindo Akili Mundos
Muhindo Akili Mundos (Mundos) is an Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (FARDC) General, Commander of the 31st Brigade.He was appointed commander of the FARDC's Operational Sector in the areas of Beni and Lubero, including Operation Sukola I against the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) in September 2014. He remained in that position until June 2015.
The FARDC launched Operation Sukola I on January 17, 2014 to track down all active armed groups in Beni Territory, North Kivu Province, especially the Ugandan rebel group ADF and the Rwandan rebel group Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR).After Mundos took over Sukola I operations, the FARDC allegedly failed to show up for planned joint patrol and operation with the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the DRC (MONUSCO), intentionally led MONUSCO forces away from massacre sites, and prohibited visits to such sites.
Mundos was accused of the brutal crackdown on the civilian population, and for cooperating profitably with rebel groups in the region.Mundos and other influential FARDC officers in eastern DRC had business and operational relationships with the ADF.As of 2014, Mundos reportedly also maintained relationships with the FDLR.Some of Mundos's staff were involved in the illegal commerce of wood, cocoa, and other goods.
In 2014 there was a substantial deterioration of the security situation in the greater Beni region of North Kivu province.There were nine reported incidents with more than 100 civilians, as well as an unspecified number of Congolese soldiers killed and a large number of civilians abducted.Additionally, civilians and local authorities accused the FARDC under Mundos's command of failing to intervene during extremist group raids by the ADF, including attacks targeting civilians.Mundos recruited and equipped former fighters from local armed groups who participated in killings and massacres.
While commander of the FARDC's Sukola I operation, Mundos also reportedly commanded and provided support to a faction of an ADF sub-group known as the ADF-Mwalika.Under Mundos's command, the ADF-Mwalika committed attacks against civilians.FARDC fighters under Mundos's command provided additional support to the ADF-Mwalika during these operations.Mundos is suspected of being involved in the planning and execution of a 2014 attack on a MONUSCO patrol in Beni Territory.
Gédéon Kyungu Mutanga
Gédéon Kyungu Mutanga (Gédéon) joined the Mai Mai movement in 1999, which saw the widespread formation of community-based armed groups in the eastern DRC.He commanded one of the most active groups in the province of Katanga from 2003 until 2006, when he approached UN Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo forces to integrate into the disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration process.Gédéon was convicted by a DRC court in 2009 for crimes against humanity that included murder, arbitrary executions, torture, cannibalism, mutilation, rape, and sexual slavery. In 2011, Gédéon escaped from a Lubumbashi prison, reconstituted his militia, and resumed attacks on local populations.
After his escape from prison, Gédéon reconstituted his Mai Mai group and began allying his movement with that of the Bakata Katanga, known also as Kata Katanga. As of March 2014, the two groups were considered one group under the presumed leadership of Gédéon.Kata Katanga is responsible for serious human rights abuses and war crimes, with militants carrying out small-scale attacks during 2013 in Lubumbashi and primarily targeting civilians in rural areas.
The situation in central Katanga has been unstable since Gédéon's escape from prison.Returning to his former fiefdom in the area between Mitwaba and Manono, he remobilized many of his former fighters and forcibly recruited a large number of children.Between the end of 2011 and March 2013, the number of internally displaced persons increased 452 percent to an estimated 353,931 people in Katanga province.In 2013, Gédéon and his militia attacked Lubumbashi, killing at least 25 people.
Very young children were reportedly being actively recruited to join the Mai Mai Gédéon group whenever it passed through inhabited areas.Since the beginning of 2013, MONUSCO and UNICEF had removed 163 children from the Bakata Katanga.NICEF separated an additional 30 children from the group upon its arrival at Ndolo military prison in Kinshasa. On August 11 and 15, 2013, 82 children aged between eight and 17 years old were separated from the Bakata Katanga armed group. The release notes that the children were identified and separated through concerted efforts of child protection officers working in Katanga province, and had reportedly been recruited during the past six months by Bakata Katanga.
During the night of April 12, 2014, Bakata Katanga attacked villages in Pweto Territory, Katanga Province, where they burned approximately 100 homes, a hospital, and a pharmacy, and kidnapped an unknown number of inhabitants, with some residents fleeing to other areas.The militia continued to set villages on fire in the area, and the recurrence of violence made it difficult for humanitarians to take care of internally displaced people in the region.This resulted in some humanitarian organizations suspending their activities in the region.
Gédéon was the Bakata Katanga militia commander with hundreds of followers at the time of his surrender to DRC government authorities on October 11, 2016.However, only about 60-100 fighters entered Lubumbashi with Gédéon, out of hundreds of fighters that had moved to near Lubumbashi in August 2016 to negotiate the group's surrender.When Gédéon surrendered in October 2016, he received a "hero's welcome" from the Haut Katanga governor and several high-ranking military figures during a ceremony at a Lubumbashi stadium.Some reports allege that the DRC government brought Gédéon back both to intimidate critics of President Kabila in Lubumbashi and to help DRC government security forces respond to any potential political unrest in the city. As of late October 2016, Gédéon does not appear to be imprisoned, nor is he is under house arrest, despite the presence of some security forces in front of his house in Lubumbashi. As of March 2017, some of Gédéon's militia fighters remain in the bush, and Gédéon continues to be lodged at government expense.
Guidon Shimiray MwissaGuidon Shimiray Mwissa (Mwissa) participated in the creation of the Nduma defense du Congo (NDC) armed group, prior to breaking away to create his own group, the Nduma Defence of Congo-Renové (NDC-R) in 2014. The NDC-R uses child soldiers and deployed them in armed conflict. The NDC-R is also accused of human rights abuses in the eastern provinces, and of imposing illegal taxes in gold mining areas and using the proceeds to purchase weapons in violation of the arms embargo against the DRC. Mwissa came to power with the help of some local politicians, traders, and a few FARDC officers. These individuals supported Mwissa to control the mineral rich areas in DRC's Walikale Territory.
Fighting between NDC-R and Mai Mai Cheka militia in 2015 led to villages in the vicinity being burned and plundered, and non-governmental organizations were unable to complete their work and provide aid to the population in those areas.
The NDC-R was also responsible for the crisis in the Bulehusa area in 2016 when armed fighters associated with the NDC-R militia moved into the area following months of attacks by the NDC-R and other groups. The NDC-R leaders reportedly threatened Hutu internally-displaced persons to force them to leave the area. Internally displaced person site leaders were told the Hutu population must leave within 48 hours. On June 12, the NDC-R and an allied Mai Mai group returned to burn Hutu-owned huts, killing at least four and wounding 20, though a Hutu spokesman later said 27 people were killed. In July 2016, incursions by approximately 30 NDC-R fighters in North Kivu caused thousands of Hutu families to flee. The NDC-R tried to prevent United Nations humanitarian food distributions in the Bulehusa area in June 2016, and has killed over 30 civilians on the basis of their ethnicity.
Lucien Nzabamwita
Lucien Nzabamwita (Nzabamwita) is a military leader of the FDLR. On January 3, 2013 OFAC designated the FDLR for fomenting violence and instability in the DRC. The FDLR is an armed group whose members include individuals responsible for the 1994 Rwandan genocide. The group has been active in eastern DRC for years, destroying communities, committing heinous abuses, including sexual violence and the illegal recruitment and use of child soldiers, and causing mass-displacement. As of late 2015, Nzabamwita was the commander of the FDLR- Forces Combattantes Abacunguzi (FOCA), the armed wing of the FDLR, Reserve Brigade, a unit that protects FDLR headquarters. In late 2016, Nzabamwita became the head of the FDLR-FOCA Group 5.
Distributed by APO Group on behalf of U.S. Department of the Treasury.
MENAFN0602201800701784ID1096436189
MENAFN0602201800701784ID1096436189
Legal Disclaimer:MENAFNprovides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above.

Tags
Comments
Category
Date
Daily(English)Daily(Arabic)All()

World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data.
Contact UsClick here
Copyright © 2000MENAFN.All rights reserved.
Design & Devleopment byMENAFN

Title: 
	 APO Group - Africa Newsroom  / Press release | Treasury Sanctions Individuals Destabilizing the Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo

The contents of this website are copyright-free and can be republished freely without authorisation.
Statement by Binance Chief Executive Officer (CEO): Tigran’s Deteriorating Condition after 6 Months of Unjust Detention
              -Source: Binance
Canon Unveils New Flagship imagePROGRAF PRO-1100: An A2 Desktop Printer with the Highest Quality and Durability
              -Source: Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA)
Angola to perform its second demographic CENSUS since its independence
              -Source: Instituto Nacional de Estatística (INE)
African Energy Week (AEW) 2024 to Place Leadership at the Forefront of Africa’s Just Energy Future
              -Source: African Energy Chamber
Senator, Dr. Rasha Kelej focuses on ‘Women Empowerment’ in the Twelfth Episode of “Our Africa by Merck Foundation” TV Program
              -Source: Merck Foundation
Designations Highlight Actions that Threaten the Peace, Security, and Stability of the DRC
We are targeting human rights abusers perpetuating the horrific conflict in the eastern DRC who have contributed to the tremendous suffering of the Congolese people
Today (February 5, 2018), the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) sanctioned four individuals who have engaged in destabilizing activities responsible for prolonging the conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and contributing to widespread poverty, chronic food insecurity, and population displacement. As a result of today's actions, all of the designated persons' assets within U.S. jurisdiction are blocked, and U.S. persons are generally prohibited from engaging in transactions with them.

"We are targeting human rights abusers perpetuating the horrific conflict in the eastern DRC who have contributed to the tremendous suffering of the Congolese people. They are responsible for horrendous acts including sexual abuse and forced military recruitment of children into positions requiring them to commit acts of violence, among other atrocities," said John E. Smith, OFAC Director. "The United States stands in solidarity with the Congolese people against those who destabilize the region."
On January 25, 2018, the United Nations reported that more than 800,000 children have been forced from their homes by violence and armed clashes in eastern DRC in what the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) calls "one of the largest displacement crises in the world for children." UNICEF reports that children in the eastern DRC are also being sexually abused and recruited to fight. UNICEF and its partners have identified more than 800 cases of sexual abuse, and recent data shows that more than 3,000 children have been recruited by militias and armed groups over the past year.
OFAC acted pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 13413, as amended by E.O. 13671, which targets actions threatening the peace, security, and stability of the DRC. OFAC's action implements the listings of these four individuals by the United Nations Security Council on February 2, 2018 pursuant to U.N. Security Council Resolution 1533 (2004).
Muhindo Akili Mundos
Muhindo Akili Mundos (Mundos) is an Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (FARDC) General, Commander of the 31st Brigade. He was appointed commander of the FARDC's Operational Sector in the areas of Beni and Lubero, including Operation Sukola I against the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) in September 2014. He remained in that position until June 2015.
The FARDC launched Operation Sukola I on January 17, 2014 to track down all active armed groups in Beni Territory, North Kivu Province, especially the Ugandan rebel group ADF and the Rwandan rebel group Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR). After Mundos took over Sukola I operations, the FARDC allegedly failed to show up for planned joint patrol and operation with the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the DRC (MONUSCO), intentionally led MONUSCO forces away from massacre sites, and prohibited visits to such sites.
Mundos was accused of the brutal crackdown on the civilian population, and for cooperating profitably with rebel groups in the region. Mundos and other influential FARDC officers in eastern DRC had business and operational relationships with the ADF. As of 2014, Mundos reportedly also maintained relationships with the FDLR. Some of Mundos's staff were involved in the illegal commerce of wood, cocoa, and other goods.
In 2014 there was a substantial deterioration of the security situation in the greater Beni region of North Kivu province. There were nine reported incidents with more than 100 civilians, as well as an unspecified number of Congolese soldiers killed and a large number of civilians abducted. Additionally, civilians and local authorities accused the FARDC under Mundos's command of failing to intervene during extremist group raids by the ADF, including attacks targeting civilians. Mundos recruited and equipped former fighters from local armed groups who participated in killings and massacres.
While commander of the FARDC's Sukola I operation, Mundos also reportedly commanded and provided support to a faction of an ADF sub-group known as the ADF-Mwalika. Under Mundos's command, the ADF-Mwalika committed attacks against civilians. FARDC fighters under Mundos's command provided additional support to the ADF-Mwalika during these operations. Mundos is suspected of being involved in the planning and execution of a 2014 attack on a MONUSCO patrol in Beni Territory.
Gédéon Kyungu Mutanga
Gédéon Kyungu Mutanga (Gédéon) joined the Mai Mai movement in 1999, which saw the widespread formation of community-based armed groups in the eastern DRC. He commanded one of the most active groups in the province of Katanga from 2003 until 2006, when he approached UN Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo forces to integrate into the disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration process. Gédéon was convicted by a DRC court in 2009 for crimes against humanity that included murder, arbitrary executions, torture, cannibalism, mutilation, rape, and sexual slavery. In 2011, Gédéon escaped from a Lubumbashi prison, reconstituted his militia, and resumed attacks on local populations.
After his escape from prison, Gédéon reconstituted his Mai Mai group and began allying his movement with that of the Bakata Katanga, known also as Kata Katanga. As of March 2014, the two groups were considered one group under the presumed leadership of Gédéon. Kata Katanga is responsible for serious human rights abuses and war crimes, with militants carrying out small-scale attacks during 2013 in Lubumbashi and primarily targeting civilians in rural areas.
The situation in central Katanga has been unstable since Gédéon's escape from prison. Returning to his former fiefdom in the area between Mitwaba and Manono, he remobilized many of his former fighters and forcibly recruited a large number of children. Between the end of 2011 and March 2013, the number of internally displaced persons increased 452 percent to an estimated 353,931 people in Katanga province. In 2013, Gédéon and his militia attacked Lubumbashi, killing at least 25 people.
Very young children were reportedly being actively recruited to join the Mai Mai Gédéon group whenever it passed through inhabited areas. Since the beginning of 2013, MONUSCO and UNICEF had removed 163 children from the Bakata Katanga. NICEF separated an additional 30 children from the group upon its arrival at Ndolo military prison in Kinshasa. On August 11 and 15, 2013, 82 children aged between eight and 17 years old were separated from the Bakata Katanga armed group. The release notes that the children were identified and separated through concerted efforts of child protection officers working in Katanga province, and had reportedly been recruited during the past six months by Bakata Katanga.
During the night of April 12, 2014, Bakata Katanga attacked villages in Pweto Territory, Katanga Province, where they burned approximately 100 homes, a hospital, and a pharmacy, and kidnapped an unknown number of inhabitants, with some residents fleeing to other areas.The militia continued to set villages on fire in the area, and the recurrence of violence made it difficult for humanitarians to take care of internally displaced people in the region. This resulted in some humanitarian organizations suspending their activities in the region.
Gédéon was the Bakata Katanga militia commander with hundreds of followers at the time of his surrender to DRC government authorities on October 11, 2016. However, only about 60-100 fighters entered Lubumbashi with Gédéon, out of hundreds of fighters that had moved to near Lubumbashi in August 2016 to negotiate the group's surrender. When Gédéon surrendered in October 2016, he received a "hero's welcome" from the Haut Katanga governor and several high-ranking military figures during a ceremony at a Lubumbashi stadium. Some reports allege that the DRC government brought Gédéon back both to intimidate critics of President Kabila in Lubumbashi and to help DRC government security forces respond to any potential political unrest in the city. As of late October 2016, Gédéon does not appear to be imprisoned, nor is he is under house arrest, despite the presence of some security forces in front of his house in Lubumbashi. As of March 2017, some of Gédéon's militia fighters remain in the bush, and Gédéon continues to be lodged at government expense.
Guidon Shimiray MwissaGuidon Shimiray Mwissa (Mwissa) participated in the creation of the Nduma defense du Congo (NDC) armed group, prior to breaking away to create his own group, the Nduma Defence of Congo-Renové (NDC-R) in 2014. The NDC-R uses child soldiers and deployed them in armed conflict. The NDC-R is also accused of human rights abuses in the eastern provinces, and of imposing illegal taxes in gold mining areas and using the proceeds to purchase weapons in violation of the arms embargo against the DRC. Mwissa came to power with the help of some local politicians, traders, and a few FARDC officers. These individuals supported Mwissa to control the mineral rich areas in DRC's Walikale Territory.
Fighting between NDC-R and Mai Mai Cheka militia in 2015 led to villages in the vicinity being burned and plundered, and non-governmental organizations were unable to complete their work and provide aid to the population in those areas.
The NDC-R was also responsible for the crisis in the Bulehusa area in 2016 when armed fighters associated with the NDC-R militia moved into the area following months of attacks by the NDC-R and other groups. The NDC-R leaders reportedly threatened Hutu internally-displaced persons to force them to leave the area. Internally displaced person site leaders were told the Hutu population must leave within 48 hours. On June 12, the NDC-R and an allied Mai Mai group returned to burn Hutu-owned huts, killing at least four and wounding 20, though a Hutu spokesman later said 27 people were killed. In July 2016, incursions by approximately 30 NDC-R fighters in North Kivu caused thousands of Hutu families to flee. The NDC-R tried to prevent United Nations humanitarian food distributions in the Bulehusa area in June 2016, and has killed over 30 civilians on the basis of their ethnicity.
Lucien Nzabamwita
Lucien Nzabamwita (Nzabamwita) is a military leader of the FDLR. On January 3, 2013 OFAC designated the FDLR for fomenting violence and instability in the DRC. The FDLR is an armed group whose members include individuals responsible for the 1994 Rwandan genocide. The group has been active in eastern DRC for years, destroying communities, committing heinous abuses, including sexual violence and the illegal recruitment and use of child soldiers, and causing mass-displacement. As of late 2015, Nzabamwita was the commander of the FDLR- Forces Combattantes Abacunguzi (FOCA), the armed wing of the FDLR, Reserve Brigade, a unit that protects FDLR headquarters. In late 2016, Nzabamwita became the head of the FDLR-FOCA Group 5.
Distributed by APO Group on behalf of U.S. Department of the Treasury.
Get freeAfrica-related contentOn your website, on your mobile,to your e-mail inbox...
All five episodes will be available on the NBA App with one episode releasing weekly throughout September
Despite his conditions, the Nigerian government has refused adequate medical care, including basic needs such as providing access to a wheelchair
Available from September 2024, this new model marks a milestone in Canon's history of innovation in the imaging industry, setting a new standard for professional photo printing
To this end, the INE has already completed various important stages to perform the 2024 Census
The Just Energy Leader Dialogue at African Energy Week: Invest in African Energy 2024 – sponsored by bp South Africa – will explore how Africa’s energy leaders can balance transition concerns with the need for long-term energy security
All five episodes will be available on the NBA App with one episode releasing weekly throughout September
Despite his conditions, the Nigerian government has refused adequate medical care, including basic needs such as providing access to a wheelchair
This commercial agreement between NPG and Regnum represents a pivotal advancement in collaboration between U.S. and Ghanaian civil nuclear industries
Since January 2022, at least 26 such cases have been brought to the attention of the experts
The committee calls upon members of the public service to highlight any frustrations with the implementation of the new system so that the committee can adequately fulfil its oversight responsibilities

Title: DRC says 6 troops killed rebuffing Rwanda incursion | News24
Thursday, 29 August
16 Feb 2018
Goma - Six soldiers died in fighting to repel an incursion by Rwandan troops in eastern Democratic of Republic of Congo this week, the army announced on Friday.
In the latest flareup between the two neighbours, Rwanda rebutted the accusation and instead charged Congolese troops with attacking positions in Rwandan territory.
The Congolese army recorded "a total of six dead and four wounded, two of them with serious injuries," General Bruno Mandevu told a press conference.
On Tuesday, heavy fighting broke out "on Congolese soil", close to the Rwandan border at the foot of Mount Mikeno in North Kivu province, the army said.
Congolese army patrols exchanged fire with Rwandan army positions some 100 metres inside the Democratic Republic of Congo before their respective governments spoke and intervened, a military spokesperson said.
Mandevu, who is in charge of an operation against Rwandan rebels in the area, said the casualties occurred "after we had obeyed the order from Kinshasa to cease fire."
"The Rwandan soldiers kept firing," he said.
He said the Rwandans "had taken up three positions in Congolese territory and dug foxholes, which means they had come to wage war."
Separately, the Rwandan defence ministry said late on Thursday that it had asked the Expanded Joint Verification Mechanism (EJVM) - a regional team of military observers established to monitor security incidents on the volatile border - to probe what it called an incursion by Congolese troops on Tuesday.
"The Rwandan army has just informed the EJVM of the facts relating to the violation of Rwandan territory by the Congolese army, and to an attack on a Rwandan army position in Musanze district in the Shingiro area," it said in a statement.
"(...) The Rwandan army defended its positions from (the territory of) Rwanda, not from the DRC, as has been falsely announced."
KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent
by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa.
FOLLOW News24 AfricaonTwitterandFacebook.
The two neighbours have had a fractious relationship since the 1994 Rwandan genocide.
Some of those accused of involvement in the killings of an estimated 800 000 ethnic Tutsis and moderate Hutus in Rwanda set up militias in eastern DRC.
Border confusion?
Rwanda has been accused of backing the M23, a mainly ethnic Tutsi rebel group that emerged during that period.
The militia rebelled against Kinshasa in 2012, saying it had not respected the terms of a 2009 peace accord, but it was defeated a year later when hundreds of its fighters fled the country.
The Congolese army initially thought it was fighting ex-M23 militia members, before realising it was the Rwandan army, a spokesperson said.
The DRC's huge eastern region has long been wracked by violence, but fighting between government soldiers and militia groups, as well as inter-ethnic clashes, increased significantly in 2017.
The operation led by Mandevu, called Sokola 2, is aimed at rooting out Rwandan Hutu rebels from the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR), a group set up in 2000 to oppose the post-genocide leader, Paul Kagame.
Investigators based in Goma, the capital of North Kivu, have opened a probe to determine whether this week's flare-up was caused by confusion over the demarcation of the border between the two countries.
Indulge in the finer things
News24's new magazine is curated for those who understand luxury and want to celebrate the richness of life.
Free to listen for subscribers
News24's August audiobook that’s free to listen to for subscribers is The CEO X Factor by KC Rottok Chesaina.
Can you ace them all?
Today’s crossword, wordflower, sudoku and weekly news quiz
Friday Briefing - weekly
Insight and analysis on the big political story of the week, plus a roundup of top columns and reader favourites.
21 Aug
16 Aug
07 Aug
01 Aug
19 Jul
15 Jul

Use your voice to deepen the dialogue and engage with stories of courage, endurance, community, triumph, and the pursuit of truth in SA.
13 Aug
16 Jul
30 Jun
19 Jun
Contact the public editor with feedback for our journalists, complaints, queries or suggestions about articles on News24.
22 Aug
20 Aug
20 Aug
19 Aug

Title: No title found


Title: Why are Ugandan troops amassed at the Congo border again? | Pambazuka News

The attempt to make the public believe that the Allied Defense Forces, a small, beleaguered Ugandan Islamist militia, attacked a United Nations Peacekeeping Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo on 7 December 2017, killing 15 heavily armed and highly trained Tanzanian peacekeepers and wounding 55 more, raises more questions than it answers.
Another slew of Orwellian headlines appeared in the press recently, along with the usual bellicose chants that war is peace, freedom is slavery, and elite security is national security. Those of us who pay attention to the heart of Africa are now being asked to believe that the Allied Defense Forces (ADF), a small, beleaguered Ugandan Islamist militia, attacked a United Nations (UN) Peacekeeping Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) on 7 December 2017, killing 15 heavily armed and highly trained Tanzanian peacekeepers and wounding 55 more.   Congolese President Joseph Kabila and Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni are mobilising a joint deployment of their respective troops to hunt down these phantom Islamists, or so we have been told. I discussed a few of the gaping holes in this story with Bard College Professor Helen Epstein, author of the book “Another Fine Mess: America, Uganda, and the War on Terror.”
Ann Garrison:Helen Epstein, the Congolese government announced several days ago that it had invited Ugandan troops across the Ugandan/Congolese border into the DRC to—they say—help the Congolese army hunt down this so-called ADF Islamist militia that is said to have attacked Tanzanian UN peacekeepers in Congo. How plausible is this?
Helen Epstein:High level meetings have been taking place between the militaries of Congo and Uganda, so it certainly seems plausible that the Ugandans could be going back into Congo. What it is all about and the reasons for it are extremely murky. There was an attack on 7 December 2017, in which 15 UN peacekeepers were killed, and this has been alleged to have been carried out by a Ugandan Islamist group known as the ADF. The Ugandan and Congolese governments want us to believe that the ADF is linked to Islamic terrorists including Al-Qaeda and Al-Shabaab, but  many doubts surround this assertion.
AG:Indeed. I have interviewed our mutual friend Musavuli Boniface, author of “The Massacres of Beni”and “The Genocides of the Congolese, from Leopold II to Paul Kagame”about this ADF militia several times.
HE:This mineral and timber rich area of Congo isn’t really controlled by the Congolese. For decades it has been looted by the Ugandan and Rwandan armies who invaded Congo in 1996 and then again in 1998, and then by Ugandan and Rwandan backed militias after the 2003 peace treaty was signed.
Now there appears to be a false narrative about what is going on circulating in normally reliable circles. According to the Ugandan army, and even the respected Atlantic Council and MONUSCO, the UN Peacekeeping Mission in DRC itself, this Ugandan Islamist militia—the ADF—has been killing civilians and peacekeepers in DRC all on its own for over three years and is now threatening to invade Uganda. Uganda claims that is why they are deploying their army at the border and preparing to pursue the ADF inside Congo.
But this story is full of holes.
AG:Well, there is a long list of UN investigations documenting the Ugandan army’s mass atrocities and resource plunder in DRC. And in 2005, the UN’s International Court of Justice ruled that Uganda owed DRC $10 billion for human rights crimes and resource plunder in DRC. So shouldn’t these usually reliable sources know that bringing Ugandan troops into Beni is like inviting the fox in to guard the henhouse?
HE:One would think so. There have been even more recent UN experts’ reports that gold, timber, and even ivory are being smuggled across the Congolese border into Uganda and then on for export to international markets.
The assertion that the attack was actually carried out by this Ugandan Islamist militia acting alone is also very much in doubt. The so-called ADF, which has been languishing around in Congo for 20 years, is really a very small operation. The Congolese army chased most of them out of the forest in 2014. It is very hard to believe that they could have carried out such a massive attack that went on for hours, wounded more than 50 soldiers, and killed 15 of them.
AG:The Tanzanian troops are part of the special UN Force Intervention Brigade that the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) created and gave an offensive mandate in DRC in 2013. That means the Brigade can actually pursue aggressors, not just defend themselves and the civilians they are assigned to protect, and the UNSC has renewed their offensive mandate each year since. They are the best armed and best trained peacekeepers in DRC, so it is extremely unlikely that a rag tag, barely extant, forest based militia could engage them in a fierce, four hour battle.
The Brigade, most of whose troops were Tanzanian, helped drive the M23 militia across the Congolese border back into Rwanda and Uganda in 2014, and some Congolese are suggesting that there was an element of vengeance in this for Rwandans and Ugandans among the attackers.
MONUSCO officials called it “a well-coordinated and complex operation launched at dusk by attackers armed with mortars and rocket-propelled grenades,” and reported that they took out two armored personnel carriers and an ambulance and truck before withdrawing.
HE:It is so unlikely that the ADF could have mounted such an attack that it raises the question as to whether placing the blame on them might be just a pretext for Ugandan troops’ re-entry into the country. And if that is true, it raises the question of who actually did attack the peacekeepers and why.
AG:UN investigators have accused Congolese troops of attacking the Congolese people in Beni Territory, North Kivu, and in Kasai for that matter. Musavuli Boniface says that some Congolese troops and commanders are part of the resource trafficking networks that include Rwandans and Ugandans, and they all want the indigenous Congolese out of the way. So some people are concluding that Congolese troops were involved in the 7 December 2017 attack.The Congo Research Groupreported that the attackers wore Congolese uniforms and even included Congolese officers that the peacekeepers recognised.
HE:It is very, very mysterious. Part of the reason it has been so hard to untangle is that this long series of brutal attacks in this region since 2013 seems to be the responsibility of an amalgam of different groups. Some of them may be former rag tag members of the ADF, but they also include commanders of the Congolese army and former members of Rwandan backed rebel groups such as the National Congress for the Defence of the People and M23. And what the purpose of all this is, nobody really knows, but it doesn’t seem to be furthering the ADF’s professed aims, which are to destabilise or even overthrow the Ugandan government.
AG:If you study the Congo Research Group’s map of massacres committed in Beni Territory between December 2013 and January 2016, it is clear that the perpetrators were moving west from the Ugandan border, deeper into DRC—not east toward the Ugandan border and the government that the ADF may have wanted to overthrow at some point in the past.
HE:It seems much more likely that it has to do with territorial ambitions within DRC, and some sort of strategy to take over this part of the country, but nobody knows exactly who is doing it.
AG:Well, since there is no group with any clearly defined political objective, it seems natural to conclude that the real objectives are control of the territory and the illegal resource extraction and smuggling in this corner of DRC.
HE:Well, that does seem to be the name of the game in this region, and there is enormous competition for resources there. And this particular area of Beni is a kind of crossroads. Virtually all trade in the region has to go through there.
AG:The Congo Research Group reports that the attack on the Tanzanian peacekeepers was part of a battle for the control of the Mbau-Kamango road that goes through the Virunga park, crosses the Semuliki River, and leads to the Ugandan border at Nobili. Sounds like a key smuggling route.
HE:Yes, but that doesn’t seem to be all there is to it. Another factor is that there have been numerous reports, including reports from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, that Rwandan peasants have been moving to Beni in huge numbers, particularly into areas where there have been recent attacks. No one quite knows why. There seem to be many thousands of them just appearing, and many of them claim to be returned refugees coming back to their homelands, but they don’t seem to know where they are and don’t even speak Swahili or don’t speak it very well, even though that is the lingua franca of that area. Instead they seem to be native Kinyarwanda speakers coming from Rwanda. Nobody knows why they are occupying this area and in many cases occupying the very areas from which the native people of Congo have fled.
AG:Rwandan President Paul Kagame’s desire to annex the Kivu Provinces, or at least North Kivu, has been manifest for years. US policymakers and pundits have advocated creating a free trade zone, that would legalise cross border trade in the region.
Advocates of this plan include two former US Assistant Secretaries of State for African Affairs, Herman Cohen and Johnnie Carson, and humanitarian militarist John Prendergast, founder of the ENOUGH Project to stop genocide and crimes against humanity. This would, they say, legalise the illicit trade now going on, and thereby reduce conflict and increase opportunities for Rwandans, as well as Ugandans, Tanzanians and others. But while the West looks the other way, Kagame appears to be pursuing his own agenda by driving local people out and populating their land with newcomers. The fear is that de facto annexation might then become official through some sort of referendum in which the newcomers are given the right to vote.
HE:That is certainly one plausible explanation for the arrival of so many Rwandans.
There is a lot of mysterious, violent activity going on in this entire region, and many people are scratching their heads as to what it is really all about, and we aren’t getting many answers from the UN Peacekeeping Mission—MONUSCO—which is stationed there in Kivu Province, and that is a big disappointment. Nor are we getting any clear signals from the UNSC. So again, we could hope for more clarity on this because if Uganda really is going to get involved, it is going to get ugly because wherever the Ugandan army goes, it does.
There are also rumors that Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni and Rwandan President Paul Kagame are at odds again, as they have been off and on throughout their decades of both collaboration and rivalry in Congo.
AG:There have even been rumors that Kagame has been plotting to assassinate Museveni. The Ugandan newspaper “The Red Pepper” was shut down, its editors arrested, for publishing them. I haven’t seen any hard evidence of that but Kagame is implicated in the assassination of many other political opponents abroad.
And if Museveni—or Kagame—were assassinated, one or the other would be the fifth president assassinated in the African Great Lakes Region in the past 25 years. Evidence points to Kagame’s complicity in at least three of the other four: the assassinations of Rwandan President Juvenal Habyarimana and Burundian President Cyprien Ntaryamira in 1994 and the assassination of Congolese President Laurent Desiré Kabila in 2001. Kagame replaced Habyarimana himself and Congolese President Joseph Kabila replaced his father Laurent Desiré Kabila. The younger Kabila was quick to state that he was more willing to accommodate US, Ugandan, and Rwandan interests than his father had been.
HE:There were many factors, forces, and interests at work then, as there are now.
AG:Neither MONUSCO nor the UNSC seem to have objected to the joint Congolese and Ugandan operation in Beni Territory, despite the long history of both army’s crimes against its indigenous population.
HE:Well, we will have to wait and see what the Ugandan army does in Congo. The people of this region have suffered so much already that it is very frightening to think of what could happen.
AG:Recently,Radio Okapi—MONUSCO’s outlet—reported push back at the Congolese government over the proposed joint Congolese and Ugandan deployment: “At the announcement of the meeting of Kasindi-Lubiriha, several voices were raised to oppose a possible joint military operation of the Ugandan and Congolese armies against the Ugandan rebels of the ADF. The Beni civil society, for example, fears that the Ugandan army will move to the region in the name of the hunt for these rebels.”
HE:Yes, I just read that. It said the two armies had agreed to set up a network for sharing information about the ADF militia but to stay on their own sides of the border for the time being, though they didn’t rule out a future joint operation.
AG:The Congolese government was urging the people of Beni not to be alarmed by the sight of Ugandan troops amassed at the border because they wouldn’t cross.
HE:Well, I am sure it is alarming nevertheless, and there may well be Ugandan backed forces in Beni even if they aren’t wearing Ugandan uniforms, but perhaps the army itself won’t go in for now.
*Ann Garrison is an independent journalist based in the San Francisco Bay Area. In 2014, she received theVictoire Ingabire Umuhoza Democracy and Peace Prizefor her reporting on conflict in the African Great Lakes region. She can be reached at@AnnGarrisonor[email protected].
* Helen Epstein is a BARD college professor and author of “Another Fine Mess: America, Uganda, and the War on Terror.” She has spent decades doing public health research in the African Great Lakes Region. She can be reached at[email protected].

Editor

Scroll To Top

Title: France freezes assets of DR Congo general over civilian 'massacres'
The government will freeze the "funds and financial resources" in France belonging to General Muhindo Akili Mundos, an ally of President Joseph Kabila, as well as those of three chiefs of other militia groups.The notice did not say how much money or other assets they currently have in France.The United Nations imposed sanctions on the general on Friday over the killings of at least 400 civilians in the Beni region of the Democratic Republic of Congo by the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a Ugandan Islamist group, from August 2014 to June 2015.The UN's peacekeeping mission in the country said Mundos, the commander of the Congolese army's operations against the militia, "recruited and equipped ex-combatants from local armed groups to participate in extrajudicial executions and massacres by the Allied Democratic Forces".The three militia leaders on the sanctions list include Guidon Shimiray Mwissa, from the NDC-R militia, who is accused of recruiting "child soldiers".Lucien Nzambamwita (also known as Andre Kalume), a military leader from the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR), and Gedeon Kyungu, who is "implicated in serious human rights abuses", are also on the list.The UN says the four men "pose a threat to the peace, stability, and security of the DRC".
The notice did not say how much money or other assets they currently have in France.The United Nations imposed sanctions on the general on Friday over the killings of at least 400 civilians in the Beni region of the Democratic Republic of Congo by the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a Ugandan Islamist group, from August 2014 to June 2015.The UN's peacekeeping mission in the country said Mundos, the commander of the Congolese army's operations against the militia, "recruited and equipped ex-combatants from local armed groups to participate in extrajudicial executions and massacres by the Allied Democratic Forces".The three militia leaders on the sanctions list include Guidon Shimiray Mwissa, from the NDC-R militia, who is accused of recruiting "child soldiers".Lucien Nzambamwita (also known as Andre Kalume), a military leader from the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR), and Gedeon Kyungu, who is "implicated in serious human rights abuses", are also on the list.The UN says the four men "pose a threat to the peace, stability, and security of the DRC".
The United Nations imposed sanctions on the general on Friday over the killings of at least 400 civilians in the Beni region of the Democratic Republic of Congo by the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a Ugandan Islamist group, from August 2014 to June 2015.The UN's peacekeeping mission in the country said Mundos, the commander of the Congolese army's operations against the militia, "recruited and equipped ex-combatants from local armed groups to participate in extrajudicial executions and massacres by the Allied Democratic Forces".The three militia leaders on the sanctions list include Guidon Shimiray Mwissa, from the NDC-R militia, who is accused of recruiting "child soldiers".Lucien Nzambamwita (also known as Andre Kalume), a military leader from the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR), and Gedeon Kyungu, who is "implicated in serious human rights abuses", are also on the list.The UN says the four men "pose a threat to the peace, stability, and security of the DRC".
The UN's peacekeeping mission in the country said Mundos, the commander of the Congolese army's operations against the militia, "recruited and equipped ex-combatants from local armed groups to participate in extrajudicial executions and massacres by the Allied Democratic Forces".The three militia leaders on the sanctions list include Guidon Shimiray Mwissa, from the NDC-R militia, who is accused of recruiting "child soldiers".Lucien Nzambamwita (also known as Andre Kalume), a military leader from the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR), and Gedeon Kyungu, who is "implicated in serious human rights abuses", are also on the list.The UN says the four men "pose a threat to the peace, stability, and security of the DRC".
The three militia leaders on the sanctions list include Guidon Shimiray Mwissa, from the NDC-R militia, who is accused of recruiting "child soldiers".Lucien Nzambamwita (also known as Andre Kalume), a military leader from the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR), and Gedeon Kyungu, who is "implicated in serious human rights abuses", are also on the list.The UN says the four men "pose a threat to the peace, stability, and security of the DRC".
Lucien Nzambamwita (also known as Andre Kalume), a military leader from the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR), and Gedeon Kyungu, who is "implicated in serious human rights abuses", are also on the list.The UN says the four men "pose a threat to the peace, stability, and security of the DRC".
The UN says the four men "pose a threat to the peace, stability, and security of the DRC".







Title: 
Uganda says rebel group operations commander killed in DR Congo - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KAMPALA, Jan. 21 (Xinhua) -- Ugandan military said Wednesday the chief of combat operations of the rebel group, Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), hidden in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), has been killed.
Brig. Richard Karimere, Uganda's military spokesperson, told Xinhua that Muhammad Kayiira who has been ADF combat operations strategist was killed after his group attacked the Congolese troops (FARDC) position near the city of Beni in North Kivu Province on Monday.
"We salute the FARDC troops on this victory against ADF terrorists that had attacked their position," said Karimere.
"The killing of one of the ADF leaders definitely weakens the group and FARDC can always count on support from the UPDF (Uganda People's Defense Forces) in its fight against such a common regional threat," he said.
The Congolese troops last month launched a military offensive in Beni against the ADF, a Ugandan rebel armed group accused for an attack that killed 15 United Nations peacekeepers in December, 2017.
The ADF attacked the UN peacekeepers in eastern DRC's North Kivu province on Dec. 7, killing at least 15 Tanzanian blue helmets, five DRC soldiers and wounded 53 others.
KAMPALA, Jan. 21 (Xinhua) -- Ugandan military said Wednesday the chief of combat operations of the rebel group, Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), hidden in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), has been killed.
Brig. Richard Karimere, Uganda's military spokesperson, told Xinhua that Muhammad Kayiira who has been ADF combat operations strategist was killed after his group attacked the Congolese troops (FARDC) position near the city of Beni in North Kivu Province on Monday.
"We salute the FARDC troops on this victory against ADF terrorists that had attacked their position," said Karimere.
"The killing of one of the ADF leaders definitely weakens the group and FARDC can always count on support from the UPDF (Uganda People's Defense Forces) in its fight against such a common regional threat," he said.
The Congolese troops last month launched a military offensive in Beni against the ADF, a Ugandan rebel armed group accused for an attack that killed 15 United Nations peacekeepers in December, 2017.
The ADF attacked the UN peacekeepers in eastern DRC's North Kivu province on Dec. 7, killing at least 15 Tanzanian blue helmets, five DRC soldiers and wounded 53 others.
Copyright © 2000 - 2018 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.

Title: 
Uganda army commander meets UN secretary general representative over ADF - Xinhua | English.news.cn

Kampala, Feb. 27 (Xinhua) -- The Ugandan Chief of Defence Forces, Gen David Muhoozi on Tuesday held talks with David Gressly, the Deputy Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary General for the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), in Kampala.
A statement released by the Uganda People's Defence Forces (UPDF) deputy spokesperson, Lt Col Deo Akiiki quoted Gressy for appreciating efforts by the UPDF to wipe out the allied Democratic Forces rebels currently hiding in the jungles of the DRC.
"The recent areal and artillery bombardment by Uganda People's Defence Forces (UPDF) inflicted heavy casualties on ADF and we shall continue to give the Congolese forces enough logistical support to continue with the current operation," Gressy said.
Gressy also promised to work with the UPDF and the Ugandan government to ensure that citizens both in DRC and Uganda are not attacked by remnants of the ADF.
Gen Muhoozi said UPDF will continue to give unlimited support to DRC forces whenever called upon.
Last December, the Ugandan army claimed it had attacked and killed more than 100 ADF fighters in DRC using air strikes. The UPDF also claimed that eight of the ADF stronghold bases were totally destroyed.
The ADF started operations in Uganda in 1995 and by 2013, hundreds of innocent civilians had been killed.
Kampala, Feb. 27 (Xinhua) -- The Ugandan Chief of Defence Forces, Gen David Muhoozi on Tuesday held talks with David Gressly, the Deputy Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary General for the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), in Kampala.
A statement released by the Uganda People's Defence Forces (UPDF) deputy spokesperson, Lt Col Deo Akiiki quoted Gressy for appreciating efforts by the UPDF to wipe out the allied Democratic Forces rebels currently hiding in the jungles of the DRC.
"The recent areal and artillery bombardment by Uganda People's Defence Forces (UPDF) inflicted heavy casualties on ADF and we shall continue to give the Congolese forces enough logistical support to continue with the current operation," Gressy said.
Gressy also promised to work with the UPDF and the Ugandan government to ensure that citizens both in DRC and Uganda are not attacked by remnants of the ADF.
Gen Muhoozi said UPDF will continue to give unlimited support to DRC forces whenever called upon.
Last December, the Ugandan army claimed it had attacked and killed more than 100 ADF fighters in DRC using air strikes. The UPDF also claimed that eight of the ADF stronghold bases were totally destroyed.
The ADF started operations in Uganda in 1995 and by 2013, hundreds of innocent civilians had been killed.
Copyright © 2000 - 2018 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.

Title: Ugandan Military Says Rebel Group Operations Commander Killed In DRC – Independent Newspaper Nigeria
Independent Newspaper Nigeria - Breaking News from Nigeria and the World
Jade Osiberu Returns With ‘Christmas Movie’ Featuring  Afrobeats Stars
Young Duu: Brands Should Support My Music Career
Fireboy Releases Highly Anticipated Fourth Album ‘Adedamola’
Group Lauds Tinubu’s Appointment Of New DGs Gor DSS, NIA
APC Candidate, Okpebholo, Remains Best Option For Edo – Agbomhere
Keneke Inaugurates Bomadi PDP Ward Exco, Harps On Unity
#UCLdraw: Cristiano Ronaldo Receives All-Time Top Goal Scorer Award
ABS FC Unveils 30 Youthful Talents For European Tour
Chiesa Opens Up On Liverpool’s Convincing Transfer Talks
SEC Grants Two Digital Exchanges “Approval-in-Principle”
Tech, Talent Will Drive Change In NDPHC’
Capital Projects: REA Spends Over N28.7bn In 2023
Pope Francis Faces Massive Backlash For Remarks On Migrants
Britain Places Travel Ban On Two Men Under Counter-Terrorism Sanctions
Floods In Indian State Kill 28 And Displace Thousands
NERC’s Off-Grid Licensing: Experts Applaud Policy, Highlight Red Flags About…
Financial Autonomy: Why Supreme Court Must Enforce Compliance On Functions Of Local…
#EndBadGovernance Protests: How IGP, NSA, Others Threaten Democratic Rights Of…
Eko Revenue Plus Summit Harps On Public-Private Calls For Partnerships For…
Coleman Achieves 30% Female Workforce — MD,George Onafowokan
Unlocking Italian Taste:Nicotawines, Ofadaboy, Italian Embassy Foster Enotourism…
Ugandan military said Wednesday the chief of combat operations of the rebel group, Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), has been killed.
Brig. Richard Karimere, Uganda’s military spokesperson, told Xinhua that Muhammad Kayiira who has been ADF combat operations strategist was killed after his group attacked the Congolese troops (FARDC) position near the city of Beni in North Kivu Province on Monday.
“We salute the FARDC troops on this victory against ADF terrorists that had attacked their position,” said Karimere.
“The killing of one of the ADF leaders definitely weakens the group and FARDC can always count on support from the UPDF (Uganda People’s Defense Forces) in its fight against such a common regional threat,” he said.
The Congolese troops last month launched a military offensive in Beni against the ADF, a Ugandan rebel armed group accused for an attack that killed 15 UN peacekeepers in December, 2017.
The ADF attacked the UN peacekeepers in eastern DRC’s North Kivu province on Dec. 7, killing at least 15 Tanzanian blue helmets, five DRC soldiers and wounded 53 others.
Prev Post
Turkey Concludes Plan To Recriminalise Adultery
Next Post
Pakistani Supreme Court Disqualifies Nawaz Sharif From Being PML-N Chief
Comments are closed.

Independent Newspapers Limited, registered on July 17, 2001 (RC No: 419927), commenced publication on October 1, 2001. With registered office at 15b, Daranijo street, off Odusami street, off Wemco road, Ogba, Ikeja, it publishes DAILY INDEPENDENT, Monday - Friday; Saturday Independent, Sunday Independent, independent.ng, TV Independent on YouTube and IndependentNgr (Facebook, Twitter & Instagram).
Jade Osiberu Returns With ‘Christmas Movie’ Featuring  Afrobeats Stars
Young Duu: Brands Should Support My Music Career
Fireboy Releases Highly Anticipated Fourth Album ‘Adedamola’
Group Lauds Tinubu’s Appointment Of New DGs Gor DSS, NIA
APC Candidate, Okpebholo, Remains Best Option For Edo – Agbomhere
Keneke Inaugurates Bomadi PDP Ward Exco, Harps On Unity
#UCLdraw: Cristiano Ronaldo Receives All-Time Top Goal Scorer Award
ABS FC Unveils 30 Youthful Talents For European Tour
Chiesa Opens Up On Liverpool’s Convincing Transfer Talks
SEC Grants Two Digital Exchanges “Approval-in-Principle”
Tech, Talent Will Drive Change In NDPHC’
Capital Projects: REA Spends Over N28.7bn In 2023
Pope Francis Faces Massive Backlash For Remarks On Migrants
Britain Places Travel Ban On Two Men Under Counter-Terrorism Sanctions
Floods In Indian State Kill 28 And Displace Thousands
NERC’s Off-Grid Licensing: Experts Applaud Policy, Highlight Red Flags About…
Financial Autonomy: Why Supreme Court Must Enforce Compliance On Functions Of Local…
#EndBadGovernance Protests: How IGP, NSA, Others Threaten Democratic Rights Of…
Eko Revenue Plus Summit Harps On Public-Private Calls For Partnerships For…
Coleman Achieves 30% Female Workforce — MD,George Onafowokan
Unlocking Italian Taste:Nicotawines, Ofadaboy, Italian Embassy Foster Enotourism…
Jade Osiberu Returns With ‘Christmas Movie’ Featuring  Afrobeats Stars
Young Duu: Brands Should Support My Music Career
Fireboy Releases Highly Anticipated Fourth Album ‘Adedamola’
Group Lauds Tinubu’s Appointment Of New DGs Gor DSS, NIA
APC Candidate, Okpebholo, Remains Best Option For Edo – Agbomhere
Keneke Inaugurates Bomadi PDP Ward Exco, Harps On Unity
#UCLdraw: Cristiano Ronaldo Receives All-Time Top Goal Scorer Award
ABS FC Unveils 30 Youthful Talents For European Tour
Chiesa Opens Up On Liverpool’s Convincing Transfer Talks
SEC Grants Two Digital Exchanges “Approval-in-Principle”
Tech, Talent Will Drive Change In NDPHC’
Capital Projects: REA Spends Over N28.7bn In 2023
Pope Francis Faces Massive Backlash For Remarks On Migrants
Britain Places Travel Ban On Two Men Under Counter-Terrorism Sanctions
Floods In Indian State Kill 28 And Displace Thousands
NERC’s Off-Grid Licensing: Experts Applaud Policy, Highlight Red Flags About…
Financial Autonomy: Why Supreme Court Must Enforce Compliance On Functions Of Local…
#EndBadGovernance Protests: How IGP, NSA, Others Threaten Democratic Rights Of…
Eko Revenue Plus Summit Harps On Public-Private Calls For Partnerships For…
Coleman Achieves 30% Female Workforce — MD,George Onafowokan
Unlocking Italian Taste:Nicotawines, Ofadaboy, Italian Embassy Foster Enotourism…
Welcome, Login to your account.
Recover your password.
A password will be e-mailed to you.

Title: Uganda army commander meets UN secretary general representative over ADF - China.org.cn
视频播放位置
Kampala, Feb. 27 (Xinhua) -- The Ugandan Chief of Defence Forces, Gen David Muhoozi on Tuesday held talks with David Gressly, the Deputy Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary General for the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), in Kampala.
A statement released by the Uganda People's Defence Forces (UPDF) deputy spokesperson, Lt Col Deo Akiiki quoted Gressy for appreciating efforts by the UPDF to wipe out the allied Democratic Forces rebels currently hiding in the jungles of the DRC.
"The recent areal and artillery bombardment by Uganda People's Defence Forces (UPDF) inflicted heavy casualties on ADF and we shall continue to give the Congolese forces enough logistical support to continue with the current operation," Gressy said.
Gressy also promised to work with the UPDF and the Ugandan government to ensure that citizens both in DRC and Uganda are not attacked by remnants of the ADF.
Gen Muhoozi said UPDF will continue to give unlimited support to DRC forces whenever called upon.
Last December, the Ugandan army claimed it had attacked and killed more than 100 ADF fighters in DRC using air strikes. The UPDF also claimed that eight of the ADF stronghold bases were totally destroyed.
The ADF started operations in Uganda in 1995 and by 2013, hundreds of innocent civilians had been killed. Enditem


Title: Five killed by suspected rebels in eastern DRC | News24
Thursday, 29 August
17 Feb 2018
Goma - Five people were killed on Saturday in an ambush by suspected Ugandan Islamist rebels in the Beni region of Democratic Republic of Congo's chronically troubled east, officials said.
Local official Leon Bahungako said the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) group were behind the attack in which three women and two men were killed and eight people wounded on the road between the towns of Eringeti and Oisha in the North Kivu province.
Government forces last month launched an offensive in Beni against the ADF, one of a number of armed groups that hold territory in the eastern DRC and are battling for control of the region's rich mineral resources.
"It was the ADF who attacked their vehicle and killed or injured them," said Bahungako.
An officer told AFP that the army intervened quickly to rescue the other passengers.
KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent
by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa.

The head of the hospital in the town of Eringeti said they had "received five bodies riddled with bullets".
"We are caring for four wounded people and four more are being transferred to Oicha hospital," said Michel Kalombo.
Present in DRC since 1995, the ADF was created by Muslim radicals to oppose Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni's rule.
Congolese authorities and the UN mission in DRC, Monusco, accuse the ADF of killing more than 700 civilians as well as combatants in the Beni region since 2014.
Earlier in the month the United Nations imposed sanctions on Congolese general Muhindo Akili over the massacre of at least 400 civilians in Beni by the ADF in 2014 and 2015.
The group is also blamed for the killing of 14 UN peacekeepers last month, the biggest single such loss in 25 years.
Indulge in the finer things
News24's new magazine is curated for those who understand luxury and want to celebrate the richness of life.
Free to listen for subscribers
News24's August audiobook that’s free to listen to for subscribers is The CEO X Factor by KC Rottok Chesaina.
Can you ace them all?
Today’s crossword, wordflower, sudoku and weekly news quiz
Friday Briefing - weekly
Insight and analysis on the big political story of the week, plus a roundup of top columns and reader favourites.
21 Aug
16 Aug
07 Aug
01 Aug
19 Jul
15 Jul

Use your voice to deepen the dialogue and engage with stories of courage, endurance, community, triumph, and the pursuit of truth in SA.
13 Aug
16 Jul
30 Jun
19 Jun
Contact the public editor with feedback for our journalists, complaints, queries or suggestions about articles on News24.
22 Aug
20 Aug
20 Aug
19 Aug

Title: 
UN official urges resolve towards lasting peace in Great Lakes region - Xinhua | English.news.cn

ADDIS ABABA, Feb. 28 (Xinhua) -- The UN Special Envoy for the Great Lakes region, Said Djinnit, has urged more resolve for the commitments made under the Peace, Security and Cooperation Framework (PSCF) agreement towards lasting peace and stability in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and the Great Lakes region.
The PSCF agreement was signed on 24 Feb. 2013 by 11 African countries with firm commitments at national, regional and international levels to address the root causes of instability in the DRC and the region, one of the regions which suffered the most from the scourge of conflicts in Africa.
A stakeholders' workshop organized jointly by theAfrican Union(AU) and the UN to mark the 5th anniversary of the signing of the PSCF agreement for DRC and the region, was wrapped up on Wednesday in Ethiopia's capital Addis Ababa.
Despite encouraging developments, the region remains at a cross-roads towards lasting peace and stability, said the UN Special Envoy in his remarks at the workshop.
Reiterating the commendable efforts to neutralize negative forces in the region, Djinnit has expressed concern that some illegal armed groups, such as the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), have continued to strengthen their capacity and perpetrated massacres in the areas of Beni and Eringeti.
The Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR), the oldest foreign armed group which settled in eastern DRC, also remains active, the Special Envoy has warned.
"While the region is still struggling with these negative forces, it has also witnessed new and persisting conflicts in South Sudan and the Central African Republic, as well as the emergence of political and electoral crises in the DRC and Burundi," he said.
"In addition to the suffering that these crises are bringing to the people of the region, they contributed to perpetuating tension and mistrust among the countries of the region," he added.
The persisting conflicts and political crises in the Great Lakes continue to affect millions of people fleeing their homes, causing an increasingly severe humanitarian crisis.
Over 11 million people are currently displaced in the region, including close to 5 million refugees and 7 million Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), according to the UN.
"It is one of the world's largest displacement crises," he said, "In a context of growing humanitarian needs and dwindling funding, urgent durable solutions are needed to address the challenge of displacement in the region."
Therefore, the Special Envoy has called for more resolve and efforts to ensure that the commitments made under the PSCF agreement, together with other key regional instruments, such as the the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR) Pact, are fully implemented to deliver their promises for lasting peace and stability to the people of the region.
"In this regard, resolving, as a matter of priority, the crises in Burundi and the DRC and conflicts in South Sudan and Central African Republic is critical to create the conditions for the pursuit of efforts towards the full implementation of the Peace, Security and Cooperation Framework," he noted.
The PSCF agreement was signed five years ago, by eleven countries, in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, to break the recurring cycles of violence in the eastern DRC and ensure sustainable peace in the region.
The workshop has been held to assess the implementation of the PSCF and formulate concrete recommendations on how best to address the underlying root causes of conflict in the region and advance the implementation of the Framework agreement, according to AU.
The agreement was signed by 11 countries, namely, Angola, Burundi, the Central African Republic, the Republic of Congo, the DRC, Rwanda, South Africa, South Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia, with UN, AU, ICGLR and the Southern African Development Community (SADC) acting as Guarantors. In early 2014, Kenya and Sudan became the 12th and 13th signatories of the Framework Agreement respectively.

Title: Rwanda cannot negotiate with the FDLR – Musoni - 24Tanzania.com
The government of Rwanda will at no point negotiate with any individual or organisation that promotes the Genocide ideology.Minister of Local Government James MusoniThe strong remarks were made yesterday by the Minister of Local Government, James Musoni, at the inauguration ceremony of the newly constructed Kicukiro District headquarters.The FDLR (Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda), is a terrorist group based in Eastern DR Congo that comprises of perpetrators of the 1994 Genocide against the Tutsi.The media has been awash with reports of how sympathizers of the FDLR are pushing for talks between the government and terrorists group.The Genocide claimed over one million innocent lives with the Rwandan people continuously demanding for those responsible to be brought to justice.The FDLR have continued to kill people in the Eastern DRC and maintain the agenda to exterminate all Tutsi.Musoni called on the sympathizers to retract their statements calling for negotiations, saying that it is the unwavering government policy not to negotiate with people responsible for killing innocent Rwandans during the Genocide.The Minister went on to clarify that if there are any members of the FDLR who disassociate themselves from the terrorist group and their Genocide ideology, they are free to return home, where there will undergo a rehabilitation and reintegration process.He, however, hastened to add that those suspected of committing crimes during the Genocide will be followed up by the courts of law.Sympathy for the FDLR has irked Rwandans with survivors, legislators, members of the civil society and politicians alike coming out strongly to condemn any suggestions for negotiations.Survivors of the Genocide are still in the healing process, however, any utterances that tend to sanitize those responsible interferes with their recovery.The Minister emphasised that the governments policy against Genocide denial and the FDLR will never change and that Rwandans should not be disoriented and deterred by the sympathizers. He called on the Rwandan people to steadily carry on the development process.Source The New Times
Minister of Local Government James Musoni
The strong remarks were made yesterday by the Minister of Local Government, James Musoni, at the inauguration ceremony of the newly constructed Kicukiro District headquarters.
The FDLR (Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda), is a terrorist group based in Eastern DR Congo that comprises of perpetrators of the 1994 Genocide against the Tutsi.
The media has been awash with reports of how sympathizers of the FDLR are pushing for talks between the government and terrorists group.
The Genocide claimed over one million innocent lives with the Rwandan people continuously demanding for those responsible to be brought to justice.
The FDLR have continued to kill people in the Eastern DRC and maintain the agenda to exterminate all Tutsi.
Musoni called on the sympathizers to retract their statements calling for negotiations, saying that it is the unwavering government policy not to negotiate with people responsible for killing innocent Rwandans during the Genocide.
The Minister went on to clarify that if there are any members of the FDLR who disassociate themselves from the terrorist group and their Genocide ideology, they are free to return home, where there will undergo a rehabilitation and reintegration process.
He, however, hastened to add that those suspected of committing crimes during the Genocide will be followed up by the courts of law.
Sympathy for the FDLR has irked Rwandans with survivors, legislators, members of the civil society and politicians alike coming out strongly to condemn any suggestions for negotiations.
Survivors of the Genocide are still in the healing process, however, any utterances that tend to sanitize those responsible interferes with their recovery.
The Minister emphasised that the governments policy against Genocide denial and the FDLR will never change and that Rwandans should not be disoriented and deterred by the sympathizers. He called on the Rwandan people to steadily carry on the development process.
Source The New Times
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*

Name
Email
Website


This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.Learn how your comment data is processed.

Title: Rooivalks returning from the DRC - defenceWeb
The South African Air Force will soon be bringing home its Rooivalk attack helicopters from the peacekeeping mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) at the United Nations’ request.
As first reported byAfrican Defence Review, the contingent of three helicopters will be returning to South Africa later this year. According to defenceWeb sources, some of the helicopters painted in UN white are being returned to their camouflage colour schemes ahead of the move, which will likely happen around May this year.
The Rooivalk’s return is at the UN’s request as it attempts to cut costs on what is the world’s largest peacekeeping mission. It is understood that the Rooivalk is relatively expensive to operate, especially as it is deployed in pairs in accordance with South African Air Force (SAAF) doctrine, and since the defeat of the M23 rebel group it is mainly used to provide escort for ground vehicles and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) and has not engaged in much combat recently.
A UN response to African Defence Review stated that, “The Department of Peacekeeping Operations conducted a thorough strategic review of Monusco last year to ensure that the Mission is adequately positioned and equipped to respond to the changing threats and challenges. Some of the recommendations of the review are addressed to the Force Intervention Brigade (FIB), of which South Africa and other SADC countries are key contributors. We are discussing with SADC countries as well as with all troop contributing countries, on how best to translate these important recommendations into concrete actions.“At the same time, following a review of the United Nations air assets initiated by the Secretary-General and aimed at improving efficiency and make savings in an increasingly constrained financial context of the Organization, it was determined that Monusco would need to give up its Rooivalk helicopters. At this stage, it is considered that the Mission is in position to implement its mandate without additional attack helicopters.”
The Rooivalk was first deployed to the DRC in late 2013, when it almost immediately went into action against M23 rebels and was instrumental in halting their campaign against government forces. Three aircraft are deployed on rotation to the DRC, with two flying and one in reserve.
As noted by Darren Olivier at African Defence Review, the cost of operating the Rooivalk “was easily justifiable when Monusco was going up against semi-conventional and well-equipped forces like the M23 insurgency in 2013, but it has become increasingly difficult to justify as the mission has begun to receive sharp cuts to its budget. This is despite a more challenging security environment, in which most of the remaining irregular forces in the eastern DRC comprise less well-equipped militias that are not as susceptible to airstrikes.”
This has been compounded by the United States’ reduction in funding to the UN, which has resulted in Monusco’s budget being reduced by $100 million in 2017.
In addition to over a thousand troops, South Africa has also deployed five Oryx transport helicopters to the DRC and these are set to continue with Monusco along with the SA Army contingent.
Update: The South African National Defence Force confirmed to defenceWeb that “there are deliberations on the withdrawal of Rooivalk due tofinancial constraints within the UN. SADC is still busy with talks with the UN to decide what the implications will be and the way forward.”



defenceWeb is Africa's largest and most trusted online source of news, information, research and insight on aerospace, defence and security matters.
Editorial Enquiries:[email protected]
Sales Enquiries:[email protected]
First Name
Last Name
Email address:
Country


Title: Fighting between Rwanda, Congolese troops in eastern DRC | News24
Thursday, 29 August
15 Feb 2018
Goma - Heavy fighting broke out between the Rwandan and Congolese military in troubled eastern Democratic Republic of Congo after an incursion by Rwandan troops, according to a Congolese army spokesman.
Investigations are under way to see if the clashes occurred because of a problem with border demarcation.
The fighting occurred on Tuesday "on Congolese soil" close to the Rwandan border at the foot of Mount Nikeno in North Kivu province, Major Guillaume Djike told AFP.
A senior officer in the DRC army, on condition of anonymity, told AFP: "There have been deaths on both sides."
Congolese army patrols exchanged fire with Rwandan army positions some 100 metres inside DRC  before the two countries' capitals contacted each other and intervened, according to a military source.
KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent
by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa.
FOLLOW News24 AfricaonTwitterandFacebook.
The Congolese army initially thought it was fighting ex-M23 militia members, before realising it was the Rwandan army, said Djike.
The two neighbours have had a fractious relationship since the 1994 Rwandan genocide.
Some of those accused of involvement in the killings of an estimated 800 000 ethnic Tutsis and moderate Hutus in Rwanda set up militias in eastern DRC.
Rwanda has been accused of backing M23, a mainly ethnic Tutsi rebel group that emerged in this period.
The militia rebelled against the DRC in 2012, saying a peace accord signed in 2009 had not been respected by the government.
The militia was defeated in 2013, and hundreds of fighters fled the country.
An inquiry, led from Goma, the capital of the turbulent province of North Kivu, is expected to investigate whether Tuesday's violence was caused by confusion over the border line.
DRC's huge eastern region has long been wracked by violence, but fighting between government soldiers and militia groups, as well as inter-ethnic clashes, increased significantly in 2017.
Indulge in the finer things
News24's new magazine is curated for those who understand luxury and want to celebrate the richness of life.
Free to listen for subscribers
News24's August audiobook that’s free to listen to for subscribers is The CEO X Factor by KC Rottok Chesaina.
Can you ace them all?
Today’s crossword, wordflower, sudoku and weekly news quiz
Friday Briefing - weekly
Insight and analysis on the big political story of the week, plus a roundup of top columns and reader favourites.
21 Aug
16 Aug
07 Aug
01 Aug
19 Jul
15 Jul

Use your voice to deepen the dialogue and engage with stories of courage, endurance, community, triumph, and the pursuit of truth in SA.
13 Aug
16 Jul
30 Jun
19 Jun
Contact the public editor with feedback for our journalists, complaints, queries or suggestions about articles on News24.
22 Aug
20 Aug
20 Aug
19 Aug

Title: 12 patients stabbed in their hospital beds in DRC | News24
Thursday, 29 August
06 Feb 2018
Goma - Unidentified assailants stabbed 12 patients in their hospital beds in the restive Democratic Republic of Congo city of Goma, with fears it was the work of Ugandan Islamist rebels, officials said on Tuesday.
Three of the victims were seriously hurt in the knife rampage overnight Sunday-Monday in two health centres in the Goma district of Mbosho, provincial health minister Martial Kambumbu told AFP.
"It is the first time we have seen patients being stabbed in health facilities in Goma," said Etienne Kambale, civil society rapporteur in North Kivu province, of which Goma is the capital.
KEEP UPDATED on the latest news from around the continent by subscribing to our FREE newsletter, Hello Africa.
FOLLOW News24 AfricaonTwitterandFacebook.
"It is surprising. We are wondering if it was the ADF who have turned up in Goma, because this is the way they killed people in Beni."
Government forces last month launched an offensive in Beni against the Islamist Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), one of a number of armed groups that hold territory in the eastern DRC and are battling for control of the region's rich mineral resources.
Beni lies about 250km north of Goma.
Congolese authorities and the UN mission in DRC, MONUSCO, accuse the ADF of killing more than 700 civilians as well as combatants in the Beni region since 2014.
The group is also blamed for the killing of 14 UN peacekeepers last month, the biggest single such loss in 25 years.
Indulge in the finer things
News24's new magazine is curated for those who understand luxury and want to celebrate the richness of life.
Free to listen for subscribers
News24's August audiobook that’s free to listen to for subscribers is The CEO X Factor by KC Rottok Chesaina.
Can you ace them all?
Today’s crossword, wordflower, sudoku and weekly news quiz
Friday Briefing - weekly
Insight and analysis on the big political story of the week, plus a roundup of top columns and reader favourites.
21 Aug
16 Aug
07 Aug
01 Aug
19 Jul
15 Jul

Use your voice to deepen the dialogue and engage with stories of courage, endurance, community, triumph, and the pursuit of truth in SA.
13 Aug
16 Jul
30 Jun
19 Jun
Contact the public editor with feedback for our journalists, complaints, queries or suggestions about articles on News24.
22 Aug
20 Aug
20 Aug
19 Aug

Title: U.S. sanctions 4 involved in Congo violence – The Sun Nigeria
Reuters/NAN |
The U.S. has sanctioned four military and militia leaders in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) for engaging in “destabilising activity” that has prolonged the conflict in that country, the U.S. Treasury Department said.
Those sanctioned included Brig.-Gen. Muhindo Mundos, accused of a brutal crackdown on civilians in his sector.
Others are senior rebels from three different militant groups: Gedeon Mutanga, Guidon Mwissa and Lucien Nzabamwita, the department said in a statement.
The U.S. action came days after the UN Security Council blacklisted the men for “planning, directing, or committing acts in the DRC that constitute human rights violations or abuses or violations of international humanitarian law.”
NAN reports that the UN accused Mundos of being the commander of the Congolese army’s military operations against the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a Ugandan Islamist group, in the country’s Beni region from August 2014 to June 2015.
UN said 400 civilians were massacred in attacks attributed to the ADF in that period, and the UN says Mundos was involved.
UN also accused Mundos of recruiting and equipping ex-combatants from local armed groups to participate in extrajudicial executions and massacres by the ADF.
You must belogged into post a comment.
Nigerians want to proptest because they are hungry. They are...
Much as I am in sympathy with the Nigerian youth nation- wid...
May his gentle soul rest in peace and may the good Lord comf...
Well spoken 'The Rock'. You were supposed to be leading us i...
You talk as if Nigeria goes up in flames today, you and memb...

Title: UN warns Congo's anti-militant offensive could displace 370,000 people

Iran Press TV
Thu Feb 8, 2018 04:20PM
The United Nations has warned that an ongoing offensive against militants in the east of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DCR) could displace some 370,000 people.
The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs said in a report on Thursday that around 200,000 people could be displaced in Beni territory and another 170,200 others in neighboring Lubero as a result of a massive military operation against militants in DRC's territories near the Ugandan border.
Some 4.3 million have already been displaced as the battle goes on against an insurrection in the center of the country and persistent conflict in Congo's eastern borderlands with Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi.
The UN has described the displacement crisis in eastern Congo as the worst in Africa, warning that meager humanitarian resources could be further stretched as a result of a joint effort by Congo and Uganda to defeat the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF).
"The absence of protection measures for civilians in the most affected zones risks worsening. The risk of shells falling on civilian sites ... cannot be excluded," the UN report said.
More than 500,000 people have fled their homes in the past two years in Beni and Lubero, mainly due to recurrent attacks by the ADF, a main militant group that has been operating inside Congo since the 1990s. Some 1,000 people have also been killed since 2014 mostly by ADF forces although reports suggest Congolese soldiers have also been involved.
The DRC began the current offensive in the east in January after 15 Tanzanian peacekeepers were killed in an attack by the ADF on a UN base in December.



Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-08-29 17:23Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: KOACI
Ouganda: Une diarrhée aiguë fait 26 morts en 4  jours dans un camp  de réfugiés congolais


