Title: Rwanda Govt reassures Tanzanians as Kikwete kicks out Rwandans - 24Tanzania.com
Tanzanians who live or travel to Rwanda should do so freely and comfortably with no fear of persecution, Foreign Affairs Minister Louise Mushikiwabo has emphasised amidst the ongoing expulsion of Rwandans from Western Tanzania.President Jakaya KikweteSpeaking at a news conference in Kigali yesterday, the minister said that recent pronouncement of Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete regarding negotiations with DRC-based FDLR militia, will not disrupt strong ties between Rwandans and Tanzanians.“Not only are we neighbours, we have strong ties among our people, we have blood ties, we have business ties, and we have a lot that brings us together,” Mushikiwabo said, also taking the opportunity to welcome Tanzanians in Rwanda.“They can live here for as long as they wish. We consider them our own people in the East African Community.”Mushikiwabo is also the government spokesperson.The suggestion made by Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete in May this year that the Rwandan government negotiate with the FDLR sparked outrage in Rwanda.The FDLR, whose French acronym means the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda, is made up of members who are largely responsible for the 1994 Genocide against the Tutsi in which over a million people died in a three-month slaughter campaign.The group, which the UN has also branded a terrorist organisation, has been involved in creating instability in eastern Congo. The group has been involved in a spate of attacks in Rwanda including a grenade attack last month that killed three people and injured dozens.Mushikiwabo said that Rwanda’s policy towards the militia has always been clear and is not about to change, a statement she made several times at the news conference, urging whoever suggests that Rwanda should engage FDLR in negotiations to forget about it.“When you are associated with genocide, you should be an enemy of everybody,” she said, also explaining that “there should be clarity about why Rwandans are unhappy” when it comes to any ideas that recommend talking to the FDLR.Expelled RwandansMeanwhile, Mushikiwabo said that the government will receive and protect Rwandans who are being expelled from Tanzania based on claims that they are illegal immigrants. She noted that it was regrettable that Tanzania did not consult Rwanda before kicking them out.“There was a decision made, we were not consulted and our obligation as a state and as a government is to offer protection to the people coming to us and that’s what we have been busy doing,” she said.Rwandan families, including those who have lived in Tanzania since the 1950s, have for the past three days been arriving through Rusumo border after President Kikwete instructed local officials to give only two weeks to the so called “illegal” immigrants to leave the Kagera Region, which shares borders with Rwanda.The New Times’ Bureau Chief in the Eastern Province, Stephen Rwembeho, said that some Tanzanians of Rwandan origin have also arrived in Rwanda after their citizenship and other residential documents were torn up and destroyed by local officials in Tanzania.The Ministry of Disaster Management and Refugee Affairs (MIDMAR), in conjunction with Kirehe District authorities have begun preparations to settle the expelled Rwandans. By press time, nearly 300 had registered with Rwandan Immigration officials.Extradition of M23 commandersUpdating journalists on how Rwanda is handling DRC’s request for the extradition of former M23 commanders who are on Rwandan territory, Mushikiwabo said that it is not unusual that there is a long process before decisions on extradition requests are made.Rwanda has already requested the DRC government to send documents containing records of suspects, their charges and evidence against them, as well as legal references forming the basis of prosecution of each suspect.The Congolese government has asked Rwanda to extradite the former political leader of M23 Jean-Marie Runiga and former military commanders Baudouin Ngaruye, Eric Badege and Innocent Zimurinda, so that they can face prosecution back home.“It is a process. Don’t just think that Rwanda would immediately put someone on a plane and send them back upon receiving the request,” Mushikiwabo told reporters. She also pointed out that Rwanda does not extradite suspects to countries that have the death penalty.The fighters crossed into the country in March to escape divisions in M23 group and are currently interned in a temporary facility as required by international laws applicable to persons who have fled armed conflicts.By Eugene Kwibuka, The New Times
President Jakaya Kikwete
Speaking at a news conference in Kigali yesterday, the minister said that recent pronouncement of Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete regarding negotiations with DRC-based FDLR militia, will not disrupt strong ties between Rwandans and Tanzanians.
“Not only are we neighbours, we have strong ties among our people, we have blood ties, we have business ties, and we have a lot that brings us together,” Mushikiwabo said, also taking the opportunity to welcome Tanzanians in Rwanda.
“They can live here for as long as they wish. We consider them our own people in the East African Community.”
Mushikiwabo is also the government spokesperson.The suggestion made by Tanzanian President Jakaya Kikwete in May this year that the Rwandan government negotiate with the FDLR sparked outrage in Rwanda.
The FDLR, whose French acronym means the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda, is made up of members who are largely responsible for the 1994 Genocide against the Tutsi in which over a million people died in a three-month slaughter campaign.
The group, which the UN has also branded a terrorist organisation, has been involved in creating instability in eastern Congo. The group has been involved in a spate of attacks in Rwanda including a grenade attack last month that killed three people and injured dozens.
Mushikiwabo said that Rwanda’s policy towards the militia has always been clear and is not about to change, a statement she made several times at the news conference, urging whoever suggests that Rwanda should engage FDLR in negotiations to forget about it.
“When you are associated with genocide, you should be an enemy of everybody,” she said, also explaining that “there should be clarity about why Rwandans are unhappy” when it comes to any ideas that recommend talking to the FDLR.
Expelled Rwandans
Meanwhile, Mushikiwabo said that the government will receive and protect Rwandans who are being expelled from Tanzania based on claims that they are illegal immigrants. She noted that it was regrettable that Tanzania did not consult Rwanda before kicking them out.
“There was a decision made, we were not consulted and our obligation as a state and as a government is to offer protection to the people coming to us and that’s what we have been busy doing,” she said.
Rwandan families, including those who have lived in Tanzania since the 1950s, have for the past three days been arriving through Rusumo border after President Kikwete instructed local officials to give only two weeks to the so called “illegal” immigrants to leave the Kagera Region, which shares borders with Rwanda.
The New Times’ Bureau Chief in the Eastern Province, Stephen Rwembeho, said that some Tanzanians of Rwandan origin have also arrived in Rwanda after their citizenship and other residential documents were torn up and destroyed by local officials in Tanzania.
The Ministry of Disaster Management and Refugee Affairs (MIDMAR), in conjunction with Kirehe District authorities have begun preparations to settle the expelled Rwandans. By press time, nearly 300 had registered with Rwandan Immigration officials.
Extradition of M23 commandersUpdating journalists on how Rwanda is handling DRC’s request for the extradition of former M23 commanders who are on Rwandan territory, Mushikiwabo said that it is not unusual that there is a long process before decisions on extradition requests are made.
Rwanda has already requested the DRC government to send documents containing records of suspects, their charges and evidence against them, as well as legal references forming the basis of prosecution of each suspect.
The Congolese government has asked Rwanda to extradite the former political leader of M23 Jean-Marie Runiga and former military commanders Baudouin Ngaruye, Eric Badege and Innocent Zimurinda, so that they can face prosecution back home.
“It is a process. Don’t just think that Rwanda would immediately put someone on a plane and send them back upon receiving the request,” Mushikiwabo told reporters. She also pointed out that Rwanda does not extradite suspects to countries that have the death penalty.
The fighters crossed into the country in March to escape divisions in M23 group and are currently interned in a temporary facility as required by international laws applicable to persons who have fled armed conflicts.
By Eugene Kwibuka, The New Times
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*

Name
Email
Website


This site uses Akismet to reduce spam.Learn how your comment data is processed.

Title: Four African nations plan joint response to militia in DR Congo | The Peninsula Qatar


Democratic Republic of the Congo armed forces soldiers FARDC prepare to escort health workers attached to ebola response programs on May 18, 2019 in Butembo, north of Kivu. AFP/John Wessels
Kinshasa:  Intelligence chiefs from four nations in Africa's Great Lakes region have announced plans for regional action against armed groups destabilising the east of the Democratic Republic of Congo.The officials from Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda, as well as DR Congo, agreed on "coordinated and concerted regional action to address the threat posed by negative forces," according to a statement released Thursday after two days of talks in Kinshasa.Dozens of militias roam the North and South Kivu provinces of the Democratic Republic of Congo, a vast country the size of western continental Europe.The most notorious is the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a shadowy Islamist-rooted group that rose in western Uganda in 1995 under the leadership of Jamil Mukulu, a Christian turned Muslim.The new initiative entails "continuous exchange of information, in-depth and consensual analysis and joint planning between the intelligence and security services," the statement said.The four nations set up a "technical working group" to give its assessment of the armed groups and of the strategies being used to combat them.The ADF have been blamed for the massacre of hundreds of civilians and the killing of 22 UN peacekeepers and dozens of DRC troops.Another group is a DRC-based Rwandan rebel militia called the Democratic Liberation Forces of Rwanda (FDLR). Its leaders have been linked to the 1994 Rwandan genocide and accused of killing or raping hundreds of Congolese civilians.Armed groups are also hampering the effort to roll back Ebola in North Kivu and neighbouring Ituri province, launching attacks on treatment centres that have killed five workers, according to an AFP tally.The four national intelligence chiefs also invited the international community to support the plan.All previous initiatives to eradicate the armed groups -- by the Congolese army, UN peacekeepers and joint efforts by neighbouring armies -- have failed.
Kinshasa:  Intelligence chiefs from four nations in Africa's Great Lakes region have announced plans for regional action against armed groups destabilising the east of the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The officials from Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda, as well as DR Congo, agreed on "coordinated and concerted regional action to address the threat posed by negative forces," according to a statement released Thursday after two days of talks in Kinshasa.
Dozens of militias roam the North and South Kivu provinces of the Democratic Republic of Congo, a vast country the size of western continental Europe.
The most notorious is the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a shadowy Islamist-rooted group that rose in western Uganda in 1995 under the leadership of Jamil Mukulu, a Christian turned Muslim.
The new initiative entails "continuous exchange of information, in-depth and consensual analysis and joint planning between the intelligence and security services," the statement said.
The four nations set up a "technical working group" to give its assessment of the armed groups and of the strategies being used to combat them.
The ADF have been blamed for the massacre of hundreds of civilians and the killing of 22 UN peacekeepers and dozens of DRC troops.
Another group is a DRC-based Rwandan rebel militia called the Democratic Liberation Forces of Rwanda (FDLR). Its leaders have been linked to the 1994 Rwandan genocide and accused of killing or raping hundreds of Congolese civilians.
Armed groups are also hampering the effort to roll back Ebola in North Kivu and neighbouring Ituri province, launching attacks on treatment centres that have killed five workers, according to an AFP tally.
The four national intelligence chiefs also invited the international community to support the plan.
All previous initiatives to eradicate the armed groups -- by the Congolese army, UN peacekeepers and joint efforts by neighbouring armies -- have failed.






Check all issues & supplements


Title: Four African nations plan joint response to militia in DR Congo - New Vision Official
Jun 08, 2019
Intelligence chiefs from four nations in Africa's Great Lakes region have announced plans for regional action against armed groups destabilising the east of the Democratic Republic of Congo.The officials from Rwanda, Tanzania and Uganda, as well as DR Congo, agreed on "coordinated and concerted regional action to address the threat posed by negative forces," according to a statement released Thursday after two days of talks in Kinshasa.Dozens of militias roam the North and South Kivu provinces of the Democratic Republic of Congo, a vast country the size of western continental Europe.The most notorious is the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a shadowy Islamist-rooted group that rose in western Uganda in 1995 under the leadership of Jamil Mukulu, a Christian turned Muslim.The new initiative entails "continuous exchange of information, in-depth and consensual analysis and joint planning between the intelligence and security services," the statement said.The four nations set up a "technical working group" to give its assessment of the armed groups and of the strategies being used to combat them.The ADF has been blamed for the massacre of hundreds of civilians and the killing of 22 UN peacekeepers and dozens of DRC troops.Another group is a DRC-based Rwandan rebel militia called the Democratic Liberation Forces of Rwanda (FDLR). Its leaders have been linked to the 1994 Rwandan genocide and accused of killing or raping hundreds of Congolese civilians.Armed groups are also hampering the effort to roll back Ebola in North Kivu and neighbouring Ituri province, launching attacks on treatment centres that have killed five workers, according to an AFP tally.The four national intelligence chiefs also invited the international community to support the plan.All previous initiatives to eradicate the armed groups -- by the Congolese army, UN peacekeepers and joint efforts by neighbouring armies -- have failed.

Title: Le Rwanda se prépare à envahir le Congo avec l’accord de Tshisekedi - La Tribune franco-rwandaise
Actualités, opinions, études, analyses, diplomatie et géopolitique de la Région des Grands lacs.
Pages
Catégories
Newsletter
Archives
Liens
Publié parLa Tribune Franco-Rwandaise
Voici le genre de militaires que Kabila privilégie à Beni. La population s'y oppose car ce sont des assassins
L’est du Congo est au point d’être réoccupé militairement par l’armée tutsi rwandaise avec l’aval du président Félix Tshisekedi, sous prétexte d’une « opération régionale de lutte contre les groupes armés ». C’est un scénario qui rappelle la désastreuse opération Umoja wetu de 2009 autorisée par le président Joseph Kabila dont les plaies n’ont toujours pas été cicatrisées dans les esprits et les corps des populations congolaises. Les images de convivialité entre Félix Tshisekedi et Paul Kagame, ainsi qu’entre leurs épouses Denise et Janet à Kigali ; les applaudissements de Kagame par les membres de l’UDPS à Kinshasa, au Stade des Martyrs ; les discours dédouanant le Rwanda de ses crimes au Congo,… sont des opérations de charme et des manipulations psychologiques destinées à faire accepter aux Congolais une nouvelle occupation militaire rwandaise, ses crimes et ses douloureuses conséquences au nom de l’amitié entre les deux présidents. Il est pourtant encore possible de refuser ce cauchemar qui se profile à l’horizon en se désolidarisant ouvertement de l’amitié que Félix Tshisekedi veut entretenir avec Kagame sur le sang des Congolais. Car si Tshisekedi ne connaît pas vraiment les Rwandais, les Congolais, eux, n’ont pas la mémoire courte.En effet, depuis Mobutu et l’opération Turquoise (1994), en passant par Laurent-Désiré Kabila et Joseph Kabila, l’histoire nous enseigne que la pire décision qu’un dirigeant congolais puisse prendre, c’est d’autoriser l’entrée des forces rwandaises sur le sol congolais, peu importe qu’il s’agisse des Tutsi ou des Hutu. Nous allons rappeler le désastre de l’opération Umoja wetu, éclairer le lecteur sur le mode opératoire des dirigeants rwandais et analyser les dessous de ce que nous appelons pour l’instant « l’opération Tshisekedi-Kagame » en préparation.1. Les blessures de l’opération Umoja wetu et l’avènement du M23
L’opération Umoja wetu est une invasion militaire rwandaise de l’est du Congo autorisée par le président Joseph Kabila, en janvier 2009. Malgré le maquillage du nom magnifique qu’elle porta (Umoja wetu, notre union en kiswahili), cette opération suscita l’émoi au sein de la population congolaise qui voyait revenir sur le sol congolais les bourreaux rwandais responsables de crimes innommables au cours des deux Guerres du Congo (1996, 1998). Le souvenir de ces atrocités, répertoriées dans le rapport Mapping 2010, suscita des réactions jusqu’à Kinshasa où le président de l’Assemblée nationale, Vital Kamerhe, dut quitter son poste pour rejoindre les rangs de l’opposition. Officiellement, l’armée rwandaise revenait au Congo pour deux objectifs : 1) neutraliser la milice tutsi du CNDP que dirigeaient les criminels de guerre Bosco Ntaganda et Laurent Nkunda ; 2) lutter contre les rebelles hutu des FDLR basés dans l’est du Congo. Mais les bonnes intentions affichées n’étaient que mensonge et les agendas cachés du Rwanda remontèrent à la surface, avec les conséquences qu’on n’a pas fini de déplorer.A) Les agendas cachés d’Umoja wetu : une leçon pour Tshisekedi ?
Tout d’abord, sur le nombre des soldats rwandais déployés au Congo, Kigali refusa de donner le chiffre exact. Des sources informelles parlaient de 3.000 à 4.000 soldats, mais il s’avéra plus tard que plus de 15.000 soldats rwandais avaient franchi la frontière de la RDC. Le 3 mars 2009, l’armée rwandaise organisa un spectacle mascarade à Goma pour montrer que ses 3.000 soldats étaient retournés au Rwanda. Un mensonge, puisque plus de 12.000 autres avaient disparu à l’intérieur du territoire congolais. Que sont-ils devenus ? Deuxième mensonge, l’armée rwandaise ne neutralisa pas la milice tutsi du CNDP mais se mélangea avec elle et les unités FARDC pour mener les opérations contre les rebelles hutu rwandais des FDLR. Plus tard, le criminel de guerre rwandais Bosco Ntaganda fut même nommé à la tête de cette force composite qui se livra à des massacres à grande échelle, selon les rapports des enquêteurs de l’ONU et de l’ONG américaine Human Rights Watch. Le 23 mars 2009, un accord signé à Goma permit aux forces rwandaises, ainsi regonflées, de se constituer en unités militaires parallèles sous l’appellation de « régiments ». Les régiments sont des forces rwandaises habillées en uniformes FARDC qui furent déployées sur presque 60% des lignes de front du Kivu.L’opération Umoja wetu, autorisée par Joseph Kabila, permit ainsi au Rwanda de réoccuper pratiquement 60% des zones opérationnelles de l’est du Congo. Sur le plan économique, cette opération permit au CNDP/Rwanda de réoccuper les zones minières qui lui échappaient et de contrôler presque tous les circuits des trafics miniers de l’est du Congo. Mais la suite de l’histoire est ce qu’il y a de pire.B) Les crimes du M23, Kagame et Kabila : des poursuites judiciaires envisagées
Renforcées militairement et financièrement, les forces rwandaises se mirent, à nouveau, à rêver des accords de Lemera (AFDL 1996) qui consacraient la balkanisation du Congo. En avril 2012, elles vont déclencher la Guerre du M23, une guerre terrible qui faillit faire éclater le Congo telle que nous le connaissons sur la carte hérité de l’indépendance. Des batailles extrêmement meurtrières ravagèrent les zones frontalières jusqu’aux portes de Goma. Sous des pressions diplomatiques et la mobilisation des Congolais, dont les évêques, le Conseil de sécurité adopta, pour la première fois dans l’histoire de l’ONU, une résolution autorisant la mise en place d’une force offensive, la FIB, une brigade d’intervention de la MONUSCO, pour épauler l’armée congolaise. Des combats extrêmement meurtriers permirent, finalement, de chasser le M23 du sol congolais. Le bilan des opérations fut lourd : plus de 900 personnes tuées en plus des destructions de plusieurs habitations de Goma par les bombardements du M23. Plusieurs casques bleus de l’ONU furent tués, les Tanzaniens en particulier. Soixante-sept femmes furent violées par les M23 lors de la prise de Goma en novembre 2012. Les soldats congolais, ulcérés par les trahisons et l’ordre de retrait de la ville de Goma, au profit de l’ennemi, se livrèrent à un déchaînement des violences sur la population qui culmina sur le viol de 195 femmes et jeunes filles dans la localité de Minova en province du Sud-Kivu.Face à l’ampleur des crimes, des voix se multiplièrent pour que les victimes obtiennent justice et réparation. A Kinshasa, des personnalités politiques réclamèrent des poursuites judiciaires contre Joseph Kabila pour crime de haute trahison, du fait d’avoir amené une armée ennemie sur le sol congolais. Du côté de Paul Kagame, plusieurs voix réclamèrent des poursuites à son encontre en raison des crimes commis par son armée du M23, et même la création d’un tribunal pénal international pour le Congo. L’ambassadeur américain en charge de la politique contre les crimes de guerre et crimes contre l’humanité, Stephen Rapp, affirma en juillet 2012 que le président rwandais Paul Kagame pourrait être poursuivi en justice pour son soutien au M23 au même titre que l’ancien président libérien Charles Taylor, aujourd’hui en prison pour les crimes commis par ses alliés du RUF en Sierra Leone. Félix Tshisekedi est-il conscient du nouveau risque qu’il est en train de faire courir aux populations congolaises ?Car c’est la même armée rwandaise qui arrive avec les mêmes agendas et pour commettre les mêmes atrocités dont elle est coutumière sur les mêmes populations congolaises. Les associations, les ONG et les intellectuels devraient commencer à se mobiliser sur les conséquences de la nouvelle invasion du Congo par l’armée rwandaise que s’apprête à autoriser le président Félix Tshisekedi.C) Kagame et les FDLR : l’histoire de la poule aux œufs d’or
Pour revenir à l’opération Umoja wetu, sur le plan des objectifs militaires, l’armée rwandaise (les RDF) ne fit rien, ou presque, contre les FDLR. Chaque fois que les troupes rwandaises avançaient, les FDLR, remarquablement renseignés, se repliaient dans les profondeurs du territoire congolais et attendaient le départ de leurs compatriotes tutsi pour réoccuper le terrain. C’était évident. Depuis le rapport Kacem de 2002 sur le pillage des ressources minières du Congo, il est de notoriété publique que les Rwandais ne se font plus la guerre au Congo. Hutu et Tutsi font juste semblant de se battre, mais leurs objectifs au Congo sont les mêmes, à savoir occuper les terres congolaises, détruire les populations autochtones, piller les ressources du Congo et consolider l’emprise du Rwanda sur l’est du Congo. D’ailleurs sur le plan des affaires, les faits crèvent les yeux. Lorsque le Rwanda est devenu premier exportateur du coltan, qu’il n’a pas dans son sous-sol, ce sont les FDLR qui occupaient les mines de coltan dans l’est du Congo. Autrement dit, les Hutu FDLR, supposés être les ennemis jurés des Tutsi au pouvoir à Kigali, faisaient de bonnes affaires avec le coltan congolais pour la prospérité de leur pays commun : le Rwanda. Penser que l’armée de Kagame reviendrait au Congo pour lutter contre les FDLR, c’est croire qu’on peut tuer sa poule aux œufs d’or. Il arrive même au Rwanda de créer de nouveaux FDLR et de les envoyer dans l’est du Congo.Mais il y a un objectif stratégique que poursuit Paul Kagame derrière son insistance à renvoyer son armée dans l’est du Congo. Il faut, à nouveau remonter à la genèse de l’opération Umoja wetu pour comprendre les dessous de l’« opération Tshisekedi-Kagame » qui se prépare.II. Les dessous de l’« opération Tshisekedi-Kagame » et la genèse d’Umoja wetu
A) Les 5 phases de la stratégie rwandaise au Congo
Il faut remonter au massacre de Kiwanja d’octobre 2008 par la milice tutsi du CNDP pour mieux comprendre comment fonctionnent les dirigeants rwandais et leurs forces armées. Lorsque les dirigeants rwandais veulent obtenir quelque chose des Congolais que ces derniers ne peuvent pas leur céder de gré, ils recourent à un procédé à cinq phases, et c’est systématique, depuis l’AFDL.1ère phase : se présenter en victimes. Le Rwanda ou les Rwandais doivent être considérés comme des victimes ; le Congo et les Congolais comme des coupables.2ème phase : commettre des tueries massives pour traumatiser la population.3ème phase : se présenter en partenaire pour la paix.4ème phase : effacer les traces des crimes commis et assurer l’impunité aux tueurs/violeurs.5ème phase : obtenir des nominations et occuper des positions stratégiques pour préparer la suite des agendas cachés.B) De Kiwanja aux accords du M23 : les 5 phases de la stratégie rwandaise
1ère phase. En 2008, le Rwanda et sa milice du CNDP étaient en difficulté dans l’est du Congo et avaient perdu l’essentiel de leurs acquis de l’époque RCD-Goma. Le Congo tournait le dos au Rwanda et envisageait de nouveaux partenariats, notamment avec des grandes puissances comme la Chine (voir contrat Congo-Chine de 2007). Tout d’un coup, les médias et les politiciens de Kinshasa liés au Rwanda multiplièrent du bruit pour faire croire à un nouveau péril sur les Tutsi dont l’est du Congo serait responsable. Les Rwandais sont victimes, le Congo est coupable.2ème phase. En octobre 2008, une offensive meurtrière est menée par les forces rwandaises dans l’est du Congo sous la conduite de Bosco Ntaganda et Laurent Nkunda. Elle aboutit au massacre de 150 civils congolais dans la cité de Kiwanja. Même des bébés et malades furent achevés au couteau dans leurs lits. Les images du massacre firent le tour du monde. L’ONU, Human Rights Watch et France 24 (télévision française) publièrent des rapports et des reportages.3ème phase. En décembre 2008, des tractations entre Joseph Kabila et Paul Kagame aboutirent à la décision de faire entrer l’armée rwandaise sur le sol congolais pour, officiellement, y apporter la paix : opération Umoja wetu (notre union en kiswahili).4ème phase. Le Rwanda en profita pour renforcer les effectifs de ses assassins du CNDP et à faire oublier le massacre de Kiwanja. Un accord de paix est même signé, le fameux accord du 23 mars 2009 entre le CNDP et le gouvernement congolais. Plus personne ne doit parler des crimes rwandais.5ème phase. Le Rwanda va ainsi profiter de cette aubaine pour étendre son emprise militaire sur l’est du Congo et bonifier ses acquis économiques. Des unités rwandaises sont ainsi positionnées dans les territoires riches en minerais, notamment le secteur de Bisié, dans le territoire de Walikale, considéré comme la plus grande réserve de cassitérite et de coltan au monde. Des officiers rwandais sont nommés à des postes clé de l’armée congolaise et obtiennent la garantie de ne pas être mutés. C’est le boulevard pour la suite de l’agenda. En avril 2012, les Rwandais déclenchent la Guerre du M23 dont les plaies sont toujours visibles sur le corps et dans les esprits des populations congolaises.III. L’« Opération Tshisekedi-Kagame » et les 5 phases de la stratégie rwandaise
A) Tshisekedi a déjà assuré la 1ère phase… à son insu ?
On peut considérer que la 1ère phase et déjà acquise, à savoir : présenter le Rwanda et les Rwandais en victimes ; le Congo et les Congolais en coupables. C’est la 2ème et la 3ème phases qui sont en cours. Sur la première phase, Félix Tshisekedi a déjà déclaré à Kigali que c’est le Congo qui est à l’origine des problèmes de sécurité au Rwanda, en qualifiant, au passage, les millions de victimes congolaises de simplets « effets collatéraux ». Il s’est même incliné devant le mémorial du génocide rwandais, un geste qu’il n’a jamais fait pour les victimes congolaises. Le Rwanda de Kagame a ainsi la garantie qu’il est victime et que son coupable, c’est le Congo.La 2ème phase est un peu plus laborieuse, mais le Rwanda peut se contenter du travail déjà accompli, à savoir massacrer les populations congolaises à Beni et en Ituri depuis 2014. En effet, depuis quatre ans maintenant, le Rwanda envoie des milliers de tueurs en territoire de Beni et en province d’Ituri pour y commettre des massacres. Les élus d’Ituri avaient estimé leur nombre à plus de 80.000. Ces tueurs de Kigali opèrent sous le masque « ADF », un ancien groupe armé ougandais, mais qui n’existe plus. Ils opèrent sous la protection des unités de l’armée rwandaise qui avaient été intégrées dans l’armée congolaise en 2009, mais aussi des officiers FARDC en lien direct avec Joseph Kabila, comme le général Mundos, selon les rapports de l’ONU. Mais la mission de ces tueurs rwandais est de plus en plus difficile en raison de la résistance locale et des révélations sur les mensonges entourant les tueries. Nos sources au sein des milieux anglicans aux Etats-Unis nous renseignent qu’aux Etats-Unis on sait maintenant que c’est le Rwanda qui tue la population à Beni. Pour le Rwanda, il faut donc sauver la face rapidement et passer à la 3ème phase consistant à se présenter en partenaire pour la paix.B) 3ème phase : Paul Kagame, l’homme qui apporte la paix au Congo ?
D’où les images de convivialité entre Tshisekedi et Kagame, leurs épouses respectives et bientôt l’arrivée de l’armée rwandaise au Congo pour, officiellement neutraliser les « ADF », qui sont, en réalité, des forces rwandaises comme le CNDP de 2008. Bien entendu, autant l’armée rwandaise ne neutralisa pas le CNDP, mais le renforça, autant il ne neutralisera pas ses propres soldats des ADF à Beni, mais viendra plutôt les renforcer dans le même scénario que l’opération Umoja wetu de triste mémoire et assurer la suite des agendas cachés. Les Congolais sont prévenus, à chacun de prendre ses responsabilités. Celles du président Félix Tshisekedi consistent à préparer le chemin de la Cour pénale internationale lorsque les hommes de Kagame, autorisés à entrer sur le sol congolais, vont recommencer à tuer les populations congolaises, sous uniformes FARDC, à violer, à piller, à déclencher des mutineries et des guerres comme celle du M23. C’est comme ça que fonctionnent les Rwandais, c’est leur nature et ça ne peut pas se passer autrement.Conclusion
Il faut savoir apprendre des erreurs des autres et des erreurs du passé. Mobutu et Laurent-Désiré Kabila ont commis des erreurs impardonnables dans leurs relations avec le Rwanda. Les conséquences ont été catastrophiques pour le Congo et les populations congolaises. Il serait terrible que trois présidents congolais fassent les mêmes bêtises dans les relations de leur pays avec ce dangereux voisin, le Rwanda. L’histoire du Congo et du Rwanda est une histoire de crimes contre l’humanité à répétition sur fond de naïveté et d’amnésie du côté congolais. Mais un peuple qui oublie son passé se condamne à le revivre, et c’est le cas des Congolais depuis 1996. Il y a pourtant une seule leçon à retenir : la pire décision qu’un dirigeant congolais puisse prendre, c’est d’autoriser l’entrée des forces rwandaises sur le sol congolais. Mobutu paya cher l’arrivée des forces hutu sur le sol zaïrois en 1994. Laurent-Désiré Kabila paya de sa vie l’invasion du Zaïre par l’armée tutsi rwandaise, sous masque AFDL. Le président Félix Tshisekedi est au point, lui aussi, de prendre une décision catastrophique pour lui-même et pour les populations congolaises qui ne la lui pardonneront jamais.
Aimé Lukando
©Beni-Lubero Online
Le Rwanda se prépare à envahir le Congo avec l'accord de Tshisekedi
L'est du Congo est au point d'être réoccupé militairement par l'armée tutsi rwandaise avec l'aval du président Félix Tshisekedi, sous prétexte d'une " opération régionale de lutte contre l...
https://benilubero.com/le-rwanda-se-prepare-a-envahir-le-congo-avec-laccord-de-tshisekedi/
#Diplomatie,#Droits de l'homme,#RDC-RWANDA

Title: 
	Militarizing the Peace: UN Intervention Against Congo’s ‘Terrorist’ Rebels | Lawfare

The upcoming main navigation can be gotten through utilizing the tab key. Any buttons that open a sub navigation can be triggered by the space or enter key.
Editor’s Note: The civil war in Congo remains one of the world's bloodiest and most intractable conflicts. In response, the United Nations has authorized a large, and militarily aggressive, campaign to target rebel forces. Rachel Sweet, a postdoctoral fellow at Harvard University, argues that this intervention is not working. The UN effort often ignores the dynamics of conflict in Congo, and as a result the use of force fails or even backfires.
Daniel Byman
***
Published byThe Lawfare Institutein Cooperation With
Editor’s Note: The civil war in Congo remains one of the world's bloodiest and most intractable conflicts. In response, the United Nations has authorized a large, and militarily aggressive, campaign to target rebel forces. Rachel Sweet, a postdoctoral fellow at Harvard University, argues that this intervention is not working. The UN effort often ignores the dynamics of conflict in Congo, and as a result the use of force fails or even backfires.
Daniel Byman
***
United Nations peacekeeping faces increasingly dangerous operating environments and more complex conflicts. To cope with these changes, the UN is calling forgreater flexibilityin peacekeeping, including more robust mandates and an expanded use of force. The largest and most costly UN mission in history—in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)—stands at the center of this change. In 2013, the UN Security Councilcreatedthe Force Intervention Brigade (FIB), a unit within the peacekeeping mission authorized to use offensive force to “neutralize” armed groups. With this brigade, the Security Council recognized that peacekeeping entered “new territory.” Some observers caution against the loss of traditional peacekeeping principles, but others view this model of force as “inevitable” amidst “chaotic situations” in contemporary war. In fact, a recentUN secretary-general reporturges this aggressive posture for missions around the world, arguing that “hostile forces do not understand a language other than force.” These trends fuel debates about military force, now by international bodies typically known for nonviolent solutions to conflict.
The performance of the Force Intervention Brigade, as the most robust force in UN history, should weigh heavily in these debates. The success of its ongoing campaign against the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) also carries global importance for dealing with alleged terrorist threats: The ADF is an Islamist group, and ISIS recentlyclaimedresponsibility for one of its attacks. But the results suggest that a bigger stick isn’t working. Now five years into its military campaign, the FIB has failed to eradicate the targeted rebels. Instead, military operations provoked deadlyattacks on UN peacekeepersand escalated violence in the country to itshighest levels in a decade. Inaccurate assumptions about the nature of security threats contribute to these failures. Military approaches define threats as emanating from armed actors outside of the state who can be targeted with force, but corrupt networks within the national army also contribute to violence and support armed groups. The cross-infiltration of rebels and state politics creates intelligence gaps regarding the conflict that risk turning UN efforts against themselves. Military force cannot succeed in these environments. The conflict demands a new approach with more sophisticated intelligence capabilities, an expanded role for civilian branches of UN missions in operational decision-making, and reengagement with political channels to deescalate violence.

“Counterinsurgency” Peacekeeping and the Creation of the Force Intervention Brigade
Since its initial deployment in 2000, UN operations have faced repeated setbacks in DRC that spurred calls for a more robust mandate. Criticisms over the UN’s failure to protect civilians erupted when it failed to intervene in massacres near a UN base inKisanganiin 2001, or to prevent rebel invasions of Goma and Bukavu in 2004. Despite knowledge of rebel activities, the UN missionleadership maintainedthat “[w]hen war breaks out, the role of peacekeepers ends.” The decision provoked calls to use more effective force to protect civilians. The UN mission experimented with a new approach in 2009, when itbegan military supportfor the Congolese army, first against theForces Démocratiques pour la Libération du Rwanda. In 2010, the UN mission was revamped with a more aggressive mandate to stabilize conflict zones in the country’s east (becoming MONUSCO,Mission de l’Organisation des Nations Unies pour la Stabilisation en RD Congo). It adopted a “counterinsurgency” approach to help the Congolese military “liberate, clear, and hold” rebel territory. MONUSCO expected this approach would create “peace dividends” for civilians by “restoring state authority” in conflict zones.
The Force Intervention Brigade, introduced in 2013, was envisioned as a more muscular tool for this strategy. The brigade was created after MONUSCO failed to prevent theM23(Mouvement du 23 Mars) from invading Goma—a major urban center and MONUSCO’s base. The UN Security Council responded by creating an “offensive combat force” within MONUSCO to “neutralize” armed groups. Some Security Council members voiced concern that the FIB would compromise mission neutrality, but ultimately the brigade was created withunanimous support. FIB joint offensives with the Congolese military seemed aninitial successagainst the M23, butanalystsemphasize that effective diplomatic pressure on the M23’s sponsor, Rwanda, was the instrumental tool in the group’s surrender.
Since 2013, the force has failed to neutralize the rebel groups it hastargeted. Inaccurate assumptions about the nature of security threats are largely to blame.

Wrong Assumptions About Security Threats
The strategy behind the FIB assumes a world in which rebels fight the government on clear sides. This approach treats state security forces and administrations as tools that crowd out insurgents. But in reality, the separation between armed groups and state forces is often less meaningful.
Weak states produce more complex wars. The DRC government facesmore than 70 armed groups. Governments in a fragile position like this must focus less on neutralizing Hydra-headed rebellions and more on co-opting groups to divide rivals. Kinshasa enlists militias in theKasaisandKivusto weaken rivals and repress opposition areas. Parallel networks in the national military also pursue their own interests through trafficking partnerships with rebels and by supplying armed groups with ammunition, uniforms and intelligence, either for economic gain or to build their own armed forces. In fact, the UN Group of Experts—an investigative panel of conflict and area experts commissioned by the Security Council—hasrepeatedlyfoundthat armed groups do not need to rely on external sources for arms and ammunition because most come from the national army. And, even by UN calculations,mostdocumented human rights abuses in the DRC are perpetrated by state actors.
Double-dealing also creates inroads into state forces for armed actors. Rebels have built up parallel networks within the national army since the end of the Second Congo War in 2003. These networks siphon off weapons and intelligence, creating a military that often operates like a sieve and that undermines the efforts of dedicated soldiers.
UN military operations don’t work in these environments. The failure of the FIB’s longest-standing campaign—against the Allied Democratic Forces—helps demonstrate why.

The FIB’s Campaign Against the Allied Democratic Forces
Since January 2014, the FIB has been deployed to northern North Kivu to support Congolese military operations against the ADF—a decades-old group with an Islamist identity thatsurvivesthrough dense links with local political, military and economic networks. The FIBhas assistedCongolese troops against the ADF with air reconnaissance, surveillance drones, aerial bombardment and support for ground operations. But an inaccurate view of the nature of security threats compromises operations.
The FIB defines its target as “armed groups” that “threaten” state forces, but relationships between its military partners and armed groups are more complicated. Days after the FIB’s arrival, Congolese military officers who were longtime ADF collaborators partnered with the group tokillthe head of the military campaign. Then, as the FIB-backed campaign continued, some Congolese officers used military vehicles—fueled with petrol supplied by MONUSCO—to facilitatetimber traffickingin areas that required working with active ADF. Armed groups, including the ADF, obtain military uniforms from contacts in the national army, leaving FIB troops unable to distinguish rebels from legitimate soldiers and crippling attempts to use force against militants.
This incomplete view of security threats caused significant harm to civilians. In fall 2014, a series of massacres erupted that has killed more than 1,200 Congolese. Viewing the ADF as the sole perpetrator of the massacres, theFIB commander pledgedto work with Congolese troops to “definitively neutralize” rebels through joint combat operations inlate 2014andearly 2015. FIB operations aimed to “better protect the population” but inadvertently supported some of the actors responsible for the killings. The FIB failed to identify abroader setofperpetrators, which included the Congolese general leading the operations. While the FIB supported Gen. Mundos, theGroup of Experts foundthat he also approached ADF fighters to carry out some of the massacres and “financed and equipped the group with weapons, ammunition and [military] uniforms.” According to theCongo Research Group, in some cases, Congolese officers secured the perimeter of killings sites to prevent victims from escaping. Ultimately, the failure to fully identify perpetrators left the UN unable to stop the killings that “occurred repeatedly” in areas with a strong peacekeeping presence.
This approach also contributed to intelligence failures. The FIB relies on the Congolese military for operational information, such as bombing targets and “enemy” profiles. Congolese officers sometimesobstructed accessto killings sites, led UN troops to false locations, and advised against entering areas where officers were later implicated in attacks. In some cases, complicit officers attributed their violence to the ADF. When confronted about his role in the massacres, Gen. Mundos stated that the ADF is a “jihadist” group with sole responsibility for the killings. The ADF is an Islamist group, but it is also opportunistic andenigmatic: It operates through a complicated series of coalitions with local (predominantly Christian)armed groupsand authorities. Describing the ADF as simply a foreign terrorist organization helps deflect attention from domestic agendas that also feed the violence. The DRC government has alsorepeatedlyinvokedforeign terrorist threats to international audiences, and the provincial governor told a Security Council delegation thatIslamist terroristsperpetrate the violence. These statements do not mention the government’sarrestsandtrialsof local perpetrators, orearlier descriptionsof political agendas behind the attacks. As it stands, the ADF’s terrorist links are unclear; through 2018, theGroup of Expertsdid not find evidence to substantiate ADF links to foreign terrorist organizations, but the government hasfurnished evidenceotherwise. This is the core problem: Compromised military networks and political interference feed an environment ofmisinformation, in which it is difficult to vet information, comprehensively assess security threats, or, in this case, accurately profile the ADF.
The FIB failed to decipher these parallel networks and agendas. Anevaluationlater criticized the FIB’s failure to account for the “complexity” of conflict. The Group of Experts alsowarnedthat a lack of “reliable information and credible analysis ... may lead to misguided and ineffective decisions at the strategic and operational levels.”
Support for Congolese military operations alsoescalated violenceagainst UN personnel. The FIB became the most defining attribute of MONUSCO, which undermined its neutrality and colored how the rest of the mission was perceived.Attacksbegan in 2014 and escalated in 2017 to theworst attackon UN personnel in recent history, which targeted the MONUSCO operating base in the forested Semuliki Valley, killing 15 peacekeepers and injuring 44 others. The national army has also sufferedheavy lossesin attacks; committed troops are especially susceptible to security threats. The ADFthreatenedto carry out attacks like these in response to military operations, but others also participated.Coalitionsjoining the ADF and local militias committed the attacks in late 2017, while a militia sponsored by another Congolese general (sanctioned individualBwambale Kakolele) used ammunition from state forces to carry out the first major assault of the campaign in2016 in Butembo. Gen. Mundos is alsosuspectedof involvement in a 2014 attack on a UN patrol.
Facing attacks, MONUSCO criticized the FIB in internal documents for its “garrison mentality” and limited offensive operations. “FIB had become fixed and unable to move for fear of ADF committing atrocities,” according toa UN inspection, and they sometimes defied orders in an effort to avoid danger. But troops cannot perform if safety risks are not mitigated, and this is not possible without committed partners or a robust knowledge of the sources of insecurity.
Finally, operations that did occur have not achieved their goals. Although the FIB remainedprimarilyfocused on logistical and intelligence contributions through 2015, it also carried out artillery shellingagainst ADF positions. FIB soldiers rarely conducted ground observations to assess the effectiveness of the artillery strikes, making it difficult to conclude whether these were successful. In 2016, the FIB launched another round oflarge-scaleoffensives, including “ground troops and special forces, artillery and air assets.” These operations captured some ADF bases but failed to hold them. “Each time, [Congolese military] withdrew after the operation” and the ADFreoccupieditscamps. These offensives have done little to dismantle support networks and recruitment channels. The ADF “continuedto recruit and train new combatants ... the pressure of the military operations notwithstanding.” Intelligence documents from the civilian side of MONUSCO obtained by this author warn that military operations against the ADF usually backfire by escalating violence against civilians and increasing demands for troops, which fuels involuntary recruitment throughout the region. Indeed, attacks against civiliansincreasedagain in early 2018 after a new round of joint FIB operations.
Today, five years into its expanded mandate, the FIBcontinuesto support joint militaryoperationsagainst the ADF, but little progress has been made to curb the potential for abuse. The FIB commander now works with the DRC’s head of military operations and intelligence,Lt. Gen. Gabriel Amisi, to discuss military operations, profile the operational zone andinspecttroops—despiteU.S.andEuropean Unionsanctionsagainst Amisi forhuman rights violationsand supplying ammunition to armed groups.

A Smarter Stick
UN troops operate in increasingly “toxic” environments—but they must also account for the challenges of regime politics. This is very difficult to do with offensive force. The FIB’s military-first approach has failed to protect civilians or neutralize targeted threats, yet it still has significant support in the UN.Special investigative teamsrecommend strengthening the FIB “for offensive operations” and a secretary-generalstrategic reviewsuggests “unlocking” the FIB to deploy it throughout the country. The head of the UN mission in the DRC, Leila Zerrougui, despite her diplomatic background,reaffirmedthat “we have a mandate to carry out offensive operations in this region” and pledged continued coordination and supply for the Congolese military. This view extends beyond the DRC. An influential UN secretary-general report calls for more robust force amidst dangerous environments, emphasizing that “nobody attacks a stronger opponent.”
Othersworryabout what this means for basic peacekeeping principles—neutrality, consent and non-use of force except in self-defense. Dissentersurgethat the FIB be assessed in light of its effects on impartiality. Some countries contributing UN troops arereticent to participate in these new peacekeeping operationsand have refused to contribute to Mali or the FIB in the DRC in light of the danger associated with the more robust mandates.
But it is also unclear what kind of end state military operations could bring about in complex conflicts with “ambiguous” commitment from national militaries and “politically motivated agendas.” The military partners that UN troops rely on to neutralize security threats may be no less predatory than armed groups themselves. Offensive force in a perimeter marked as rebel territory is unable to dismantle support networks that extendregionallyor traverse state forces. In such conditions, some DRCexpertsandpolitical analysts at MONUSCOcriticize the existence of the FIB. AsInternational Crisis Group warns,“Large-scale, joint operations with DRC forces against armed groups, long inappropriate, are now not even defensible.”
Making the stick bigger won’t work. It’s time for a smarter stick.
To navigate these challenges, the UN Security Council should restore the original terms of the FIB mandate. When the FIB was created, it came with conditions. The Security Council stipulated that intelligence-driven operations would mitigate risk against civilians and that the brigade would operate only if the DRC government made progress toward commitments to peace and security; the original mandate also called for a “clear exit strategy” if operations were ineffective. There are substantive policies that would make progress toward these goals. The Security Council could start by restructuring the mission to provide more civilian intelligence and oversight for the FIB, reincorporating political strategies to deescalate conflict, and setting limits on the use of force.

Political Framework
The Security Councilenvisionedthat the FIB would operate “within the framework of a broader political strategy,” but the political framework behind the FIB has since “ossified” into whatexpertsdescribe as a “single-mindedly military” approach to engaging armed groups. High-level UN diplomacy has been focused on warming the relationships between MONUSCO and the government of the DRC and navigating a delicate transition of power. But it must also follow up on sanctions and draw effective red lines to signal UN refusal to cooperate with military units accused of rights abuses. At the ground level, more proactive efforts are needed to resolve disputes and reduce threats. Military operations have crowded out other strategies to deescalate conflict, such as local-level mediation channels that can reach militants directly.

Intelligence
The FIB lacks the situational awareness and human intelligence needed for effective operations and mitigating risks to civilians. Numerousevaluations, including by theSecurity Councilandregional governments, have identified this intelligence gap and emphasized a need for “enhanced political and conflict analysis” to “better understand” conflict actors. There are more than 70 armed groups in eastern Congo; intelligence to facilitate operations requires histories, profiles, and knowledge of alliances, political sponsors, trafficking, and regional networks for each group, as well as information about potential parallel networks in military brigades. This is a daunting task for commanders who are there for short deployments and often lack linguistic expertise. No mechanisms currently exist for sharing intelligence from the political and analysis cells on the civilian branch of the mission, or from external investigative teams, to inform military operations branches. The UN secretary-general should also ensure that regional countries fulfillpromisesto lend intelligence services to stem cross-border networks.

Effective Communication Channels With Civilians
The FIB force commander hasstatedconsistentlythat defeating the ADF would require “better information” from the population to cope with “an adversary that changes the tactics.” But, despite UN efforts, “communication with Congolese citizens remainslimited” and local authoritieswonderwhen the FIB will act on the recommendations they’ve provided. What is called for is not more combat troops but, instead, personnel with skills to effectively communicate with civilians and develop deep informant networks to match the nature of the threat.

Clear Conditions
To continue, UN military operations should satisfy basic conditions on the acceptable use of force:
First,are the government and military committed?UN missions must not support military commanders or units implicated in rights violations. Support must be contingent on the government’s implementing sanctions levied against military officers and on devising an effective strategy to stop the flow of arms, ammunition and uniforms from military partners to armed groups.
Second, is there adequate knowledge about the target?Are there robust and well-vetted profiles for all groups operating in the targeted zone, as well as profiles of networks and officers within the national army in the area?
Third,is the Do No Harm principle met?Is collateral damage against civilians sufficiently assessed and mitigated? The UN must relink FIB operations to protection concerns. Better ground knowledge and human intelligence can ensure these standards are met, while also responding to mission calls for “more thorough battle damage assessment of past operations.”
The UN is not meeting, and never has met, these principles in its military intervention in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. If this cannot be done in the coming months, the secretary-general should place a moratorium on military operations and exercise the built-in exit strategy for the FIB. Doing so would have potential benefits: It would shift the use of force to secure population centers, place renewed focus ondeterring and documentingviolence, andfree up resourcesfor civilian protection.
Hard National Security Choices

Title: MSN


Title: Al menos 15 muertos en enfrentamientos con presuntos rebeldes de las ADF en le este de RDC | Teinteresa
Teinteresa
Información para personas. Sin etiquetas
4 de junio de 2019PorEUROPA PRESS
Los enfrentamientos se produjeron el lunes por la noche en la localidad de Beni, según ha contado a DPA su alcalde en funciones, Bakwanamaha Modeste. «Lamentamos la muerte de trece civiles y dos militares», ha señalado, precisando que también ha muerto un rebelde.
Según informa la emisora Radio Okapi, hubo un primer ataque hacia las 21.00 horas del lunes perpetrado principalmente por mujeres y niños que saquearon varias viviendas y que fueron interceptados por una patrulla del Ejército, desencadenándose un tiroteo. En su huida, los milicianos mataron a al menos dos personas que se encontraron por el camino.
Ya este martes por la mañana, un segundo grupo de combatientes ha llevado a cabo una incursión en el barrio de Batanuka, donde habrían matado a unas diez personas, incluidos cuatro motoristas y un militar.
El incidente se produce días después de que el Ejército congoleño informara de que había abatido a 26 miembros de las ADF en la misma región. El grupo armado se formó en 1995 y tiene su base de operaciones en la montañosa frontera entre RDC y Uganda. Es conocido por usar a niños soldados y ha sido acusado de graves violaciones de los Derechos Humanos.
Es uno de los numerosos grupos rebeldes que están activos en el este de RDC, una zona particularmente rica en recursos minerales. Las ADF llevan a cabo frecuentes ataques contra civiles, pero recientemente ha sido responsable de ataques contra las fuerzas de paz de la ONU también.
Archivado en:Mundo
Si deseas que te mantengamos informado suscríbete a nuestra newsletter
Copyright © 2024 · www.teinteresa.es

Title: ISIL claims deadly attack in Ebola-wracked eastern DR Congo | ISIL/ISIS News | Al Jazeera
Armed group declares it was behind killing of military forces in eastern city of Beni amid surging Ebola outbreak.
ISIL has claimed responsibility for a deadly attack in an Ebola-stricken eastern region of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
In a statement issued on Tuesday by the armed group via Telegram, an encrypted messaging application, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISILor ISIS) group said it had targeted military forces in the city of Beni a day earlier, killing or wounding 25 people.
The group’s account of the violence appeared to differ from local reports. Modeste Bakwanamaha, deputy mayor of Beni, told Reuters news agency that 13 civilians were killed in an attack late on Monday.
Bakwanamaha said fighters from the rebel Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) – a group thought to be linked to ISIL – were responsible for the assault.
“The victims were killed by bullets and others by bladed weapons,” Bakwanamaha said.
He added that the violence was likely a response to acrackdown by the DRC’s armylast week that killed 26 ADF members after they had earlier attacked an army position in Ngite, a village near Beni.
The ADF has never claimed allegiance to ISIL, but the latter recentlyallegedthat its “Central Africa Province” affiliate had inflicted “dozens of casualties” on Congolese forces, according to the SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors the armed group’s online activity. There was no independent confirmation of the claims.
The ADF, originally a Ugandan group, has been operating along the DRC’s border with Uganda for more than two decades. It is one of scores of rival armed factions active in the region, including in the area around Beni, which is at the epicentre of an ongoing Ebola outbreak.
The widespread insecurity has hampered efforts to battle the epidemic, now the second-worst on record, with more than 100 attacks on treatment centres and health workers recorded since the beginning of the year, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).
Amid the unrest, the number of recorded casessurgedpast 2,000 this week as the rate of infection continued to accelerate.
The outbreak, whichemergedin the DRC’s eastern North Kivu province in August and later spread to the neighbouring Ituri province, has killed 1,354 people so far, according to the latest figures from the DRC’s health ministry.
Health workers have inoculated more than 100,000 people to date as part of a government-backed vaccination programme aimed at containing the spread of the virus.
The vaccine is experimental but isestimatedto be 97.5 percent effective.
Experts and aid agencies havewarnedthe situation for responders on the ground has become “poisoned”, however, with health workers faced with widespread community distrust over the epidemic.
According to a recentstudyby the Lancet Infectious Diseases journal, large segments of the local population believe the virus is a fabrication invented for the financial gain of business-owning local elites or to further destabilise the area.
Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO director-general, last month described the situation as “one of the most complex health emergencies any of us have ever faced”.
“Unless we unite to end this outbreak, we run the very real risk that it will become more widespread, more expensive and more aggressive,” Ghebreyesus said.









Follow Al Jazeera English:

Title: Ebola outbreak in eastern DRC reaches 2,000 cases | Ebola News | Al Jazeera
Spread of the disease appears quickening with 1,300 deaths in 10 months, treatment hampered by mistrust, fighting.
The spread of theEbolaoutbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) appears to be accelerating with more than 2,000 cases recorded, two-thirds of them fatal, according to government figures, and the World Health Organization (WHO).
The number of confirmed cases reached the milestone three times as quickly as it took to reach 1,000, experts said on Tuesday.
Eastern DRC is now in the midst of the second-worst outbreak of the disease in history.Attacks by rebel groups have complicated health workers’ efforts to contain it.
In Beni, 16 people were killed in clashes with suspected Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) rebels, 13 of them civilians, an official said on Tuesday.
Militia attacks have hindered treatment and complicated theUnited Nations‘s response to the crisis. Local mistrust of health workers has also contributed to an acceleration of the spread of Ebola.
“Without access to communities, we can’t vaccinate those at risk,” Tedros Adhanom from the WHO wrote on Twitter.
“But we are determined that we can and will end this outbreak,” he added.
We have now passed 2000#Ebolacases in#DRC. Insecurity continues to hamper the response. Without access to communities, we can’t vaccinate those at risk, treat those infected or trace contacts. But we are determined that we can & will end this outbreak.pic.twitter.com/MpHqYXLvaE
— Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus (@DrTedros)June 4, 2019

The outbreak reached 1,000 cases in March, more than seven months after it was first detected in August last year.
It took less than three more months to reach 2,000, according to the DRC’s health ministry. More than 1,300 people have died.
Responders face twin obstacles: resistance from communities who believe that Ebola is a conspiracy made up by aid agencies and the government, and from armed groups seeking to stoke instability for their own gain.
“The current response to tackle Ebola isn’t working,” Corinne N’Daw, Oxfam’s country director in Congo told Reuters.
“No matter how effective treatment is, if people don’t trust or understand it, they will not use it.”
The 2,000 figure is a “sad and frustrating milestone … the insecurity is holding us back,” said WHO spokesman Tarik Jasarevic.
A mob killed an Ebola health worker and looted a clinic in the village of Vusahiro earlier this month.
Between January and early May, there were 42 attacks on health facilities, with 85 workers either injured or killed, according to WHO figures from May 3.
“Every time there is an incident … we are not able to provide services and go into communities. We are not able to vaccinate, not able to treat those who are ill, we are not able to follow up on those who may have been exposed to the virus,” Jasarevic said.
The ADF fighting in Beni happened on Monday night, interim town Mayor Bakwanamaha Modeste told DPA news agency.
“We regret the death of 13 civilians and two military personnel,” he said, adding that a rebel was also killed.
The incident comes a few days after the Congolese army said they had killed26 ADF membersin the same region.
The ADF is one of the numerous rebel groups that are active in eastern Congo, primarily fighting over the area’s rich mineral resources.
The rebel group frequently launches attacks on civilians but recently has been responsible for attacks on United Nations peacekeepers as well.









Follow Al Jazeera English:

Title: Isis claims sub-Saharan attacks in a sign of African ambitions | Islamic State | The Guardian
Move points to effort to become platform for Islamic extremist groups after fall of ‘caliphate’
Islamic State has claimed responsibility for two attacks by militants in sub-Saharan Africa in less than 24 hours, suggesting the continent is central to the terrorist group’s strategy of expanding a global network of extremists after the loss of its territories in Iraq and Syria.
On Tuesday Isis said it was involved in an attack inMozambique, where an intensifying insurgency has pitted a little-understood network of militants against local security forces in the northern Cabo Delgado province. It was the first such claim of an Isis link to the former Portuguese colony.
“The soldiers of the caliphate were able to repulse an attack by the crusader Mozambican army … They clashed with them with a variety of weapons, killing and wounding a number of them. The mujahideen captured weapons, ammunition, and rockets as spoils,” a statement said, according to SITE Intelligence, a company that monitors extremist activity.
Earlier in the day, Isis alsoclaimed responsibility for a deadly overnight attack in the(DRC).
The two claims come amid what experts say isa new effort by Isisto become a “platform” for Islamic extremist groups worldwide.
Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the leader of Isis,has mentioned new oaths of allegiance from extremists in Mali and Burkina Fasoin the Sahel region, and displayed a report on the group’s “Central Africa province”, which was first mentioned in 2018.
Analysts believe the Sri Lanka attacks,also claimed by Isis, were part of this effort to convince supporters and enemies alike that the group could follow its maxim of “remaining and expanding” despite the major defeats in its Middle East heartland.
The group’s claim of responsibility for the attack in Mozambique was unexpected.
Ryan Cummings, a South Africa-based security consultant, said the attack came almost exactly a year after suggestions that local militants had offered to pledge allegiance to Baghdadi.
“It could be that Isis just want to be able to claim that it is still remaining and expanding, but previously processes for verifying the loyalty of a group have been fairly rigorous … The new Isis branding for the local groups gives them credibility,” Cummings said.
Militant Islamists have targeted remote communities inCabo Delgado since October 2017. More than 200 people have been killed and many villages torched despite a heavy police and military presence in the province, which borders Tanzania.
In the DRC, a violent group active in the area for more than 20 years was blamed for the new attacks. Officials in Beni, in the eastern province of North Kivu, said 13 civilians were killed late on Monday by the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) “by bullets and others by bladed weapons.”
In a statement on the messaging website Telegram, Isis said it was behind the operation.
TheADF appeares to be an unlikely Isis affiliate.It has deep roots in the often violent politics of the region, though there is some evidence that it received funds from an Islamic State financier and that some of its fighters have flown what appears to be an Isis flag. A book on the administration of a caliphate published by Isis was retrieved from the body of one ADF fighter.
“There are a lot of traces that do establish some kind of link. What we haven’t seen yet is a concomitant increase in the capacity of the ADF,” said Stephanie Wolters,a DRC expert at the Institute of Security Studies, Pretoria.
“We can’t know if any more resources have reached the ADF but if that does happen that would make the group a much greater threat in a particularly volatile area and that would be worrying.”
The Isis strategy of projecting an image of worldwide reach risks being undermined by ambitious claims that exaggerate the group’s involvement in what are essentially local conflicts.
The Isis account of the clash in Mozambique appeared to be inaccurate as the village it named was not in the district mentioned, local experts said.
The group’s account of the attack in the DRC also appeared to include inaccuracies, giving an erroneous death toll.

Title: Mueren siete personas, entre ellas cinco civiles, en dos nuevos ataques en el noreste de RDC | Teinteresa
Teinteresa
Información para personas. Sin etiquetas
10 de junio de 2019PorEUROPA PRESS
Según las informaciones recogidas por la emisora local Radio Okapi, al menos tres personas murieron en un ataque llevado a cabo el sábado en la localidad de Gbi, situada en la orilla del lago Alberto.
Asimismo, dos personas que fueron secuestradas fueron posteriormente ejecutadas por los atacantes, que además saquearon varias tiendas antes de darse a la fuga.
Posteriormente, dos militares murieron en un ataque perpetrado contra varios puestos de control en la localidad de Tsukpa, situada en el territorio de Djugu de esta misma provincia.
Por el momento ningún grupo ha reclamado la autoría de los ataques, si bien las autoridades han achacado los últimos incidentes de este tipo al grupo armado Fuerzas Democráticas Aliadas (ADF, por sus siglas en inglés).
Las ADF se formaron en 1995 y tienen su base de operaciones en la montañosa frontera entre RDC y Uganda. Son conocidas por usar a niños soldados y han sido acusadas de graves violaciones de los Derechos Humanos.
Así, es uno de los numerosos grupos rebeldes que están activos en el este de RDC, una zona particularmente rica en recursos minerales. Las ADF llevan a cabo frecuentes ataques contra civiles, pero recientemente ha sido responsable también de ataques contra las fuerzas de paz de la ONU.
El grupo yihadista Estado Islámico ha reclamado recientemente la autoría de varios ataques achacados inicialmente a las ADF, en medio de los rumores sobre una posible asociación entre ambos grupos. Los yihadistas anunciaron además la creación de una nueva rama en la zona conocida como Provincia de África Central.
Archivado en:Mundo
Si deseas que te mantengamos informado suscríbete a nuestra newsletter
Copyright © 2024 · www.teinteresa.es

Title: South African soldiers repulse ADF rebels in DRC firefight - defenceWeb
South African soldiers attached to the UN Force Intervention Brigade (FIB) in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) have been commended by SA National Defence Force (SANDF) Chief General Solly Shoke for bravery and commitment under fire.
An SANDF quick reaction force (QRF) was activated following an attack on a base at Ngite, north of Mavivi in the northeastern DRC. En route to assist, the South Africans came under attack from what is believed to be Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) soldiers last Thursday.
An SA navy officer currently deployed in the DRC told defenceWeb the Ngite base commander called the South Africans for support. A Charlie Company platoon was deployed as a QRF, Lieutenant (SAN) Obed Medupe said.
“The platoon drove through the ambush while elements of Charlie Company fought their way through. On arrival at Ngite camp the South Africans found a number of FARDC (DR Congo regulars) first line of defence trenches occupied by ADF soldiers.
“The lieutenant in command exited the Mamba and instructed those reporting to him to use grenade launchers to move the ADF soldiers. This saw ADF exit the trenches taken from FARDC and they then were in the firing line for the 12.7 machine gun mounted on the Mamba.
“While this engagement was underway the remainder of the QRF held ground on the other side of the FARC camp and forced the rebels to seek safety in dense jungle adjacent to the road,” Medupe told defenceWeb.
Twenty-three ADF soldiers were killed in the firefight, with a large number of weapons, including AK-47s, PKMs, light machineguns, mortars and ammunition recovered.
One South African soldier sustained a gunshot wound to his foot but was treated on the scene and is said to be stable following the firefight.
An SANDF Directorate: Corporate Communications Statement has it that “the deeds of bravery and committed service in pursuance of peace demonstrate SANDF soldiers are well equipped for any task and committed to the realisation of stability on the continent. The Chief of the SANDF would like to reassure South Africans their soldiers have regrouped and resumed their mandate as part of the main force tasked by the United Nations to advance peace and stability in the DRC”.



defenceWeb is Africa's largest and most trusted online source of news, information, research and insight on aerospace, defence and security matters.
Editorial Enquiries:[email protected]
Sales Enquiries:[email protected]
First Name
Last Name
Email address:
Country


Title: New violence in Beni, DRC, as Ebola lab targeted | CIDRAP
World Bank, Vincent Tremeau / Flickr cc
Thieves robbed an Ebola lab in Komanda yesterday, taking laptops and a GeneXpert device used to test virus samples, the Democratic Republic of Congo's (DRC's) ministry of health said in yesterday's daily report.
No one was injured in the robbery, but in Beni, 12 people were killed on the evening of Jun 3, the DRC said. ISIL, the Islamic State, is claiming responsibility for the attack, and anAl Jazeerareport suggests this is the group's response to an altercation last week between the Congolese military and the terrorist organization Allied Democracy Forces (ADF) that left 26 ADF members dead.
ISIL also took credit for supporting those ADF fighters.
The DRC said response efforts are still under way in Beni, despite the chaos.
"This Tuesday morning, hundreds of protesters took to the streets and several commercial activities were paralyzed in the city. The Beni response teams worked slowly and cautiously, but no response activity was temporarily suspended," the health ministry wrote.
Yesterday and today the ministry of health confirmed 17 new Ebola case and 11 deaths, raising outbreak totals to 2,025 cases and 1,357 deaths. A total of 295 suspected cases are still under investigation. The new cases come from current hotspots, including Mandima, Katwa, Mabalako, Butembo, Beni, and Kalunguta.
Another health worker has been infected with Ebola, this time a vaccinated worker in Beni. This raises to 110 the number of health workers infected during this outbreak. Thirty-seven health workers have died.
In the latest outbreak situation report from the World Health Organization (WHO), the organization said there were some signs that transmission intensity was on the decline in North Kivu province.
A total of 88 confirmed cases were reported each week for the past 2 weeks, the WHO said, which is down from the peak of 126 cases per week observed in April.
"Concurrently, improvements  in  the  proportion  of  cases  among  contacts registered  prior  to  onset  (up  from  30%  three  weeks  ago  to  55%  last  week),  and  a  lower  proportion  of  cases resulting from transmission within community health facilities (from 31% during the first week of April 2019 to 9% during the last week of May 2019), are encouraging, although both indicators are below where we would aim to be," the WHO said.
Declines in transmission were most markedly seen in Katwa, Mandima, and Beni. In the last 3 weeks, more cases have been reported in Mabalako and Butembo.
The case-fatality ratio for the outbreak remains at 67%, and 29% of cases are in children under 18.
Vaccination efforts with Merck's VSV-EBOV continue with 130,254 people vaccinated as of today. According to the WHO, only 9.2% of current cases do not have a ring vaccination program in place.
More than 500 people have recovered from Ebola during this outbreak, and the WHO recently confirmed that trained psychological staff are being put in Ebola treatment centers throughout the region to help victims and survivors. Staff also focus on reintegrating survivors into communities and fighting lasting stigma.
See also:
Jun 4 DRCupdate
Jun 5 DRCupdate
Jun 5Al Jazeeraarticle
Jun 5 WHOsituation report
Jun 5 WHO psychologicalstory
An impaired sense of smell could serve as both a potential marker of virus-induced brain damage and a marker of patients susceptible to brain damage.
A second study found good protection against hospitalization--although uneven uptake--among pregnant women.
US health officials are eying ways to reduce the spread of the virus over colder months and the holiday season.
During follow-up, 3% of patients with postvaccination myocarditis, 4% of those with post-COVID myocarditis, and 6% of those with the conventional type were readmitted for myopericarditis.
Cambodia, where an older H5N1 clade circulates in poultry, has now reported 18 human cases since early 2023.
The index is a step toward a tool that could someday be used to identify long COVID in children but is not ready for clinical use, the authors say.
The CDC has received reports of 11 imported cases and is warning pregnant travelers to affected regions about the risk of severe fetal complications.
Tularemia, or "rabbit fever," is an occupational risk for farmers, foresters, and veterinarians and is listed by the CDC as 1 of 6 high-priority bioterrorism agents.
Relative vaccine effectiveness was higher for the adjuvanted flu vaccine among older adults with multiple concurrent high-risk conditions.
The agency approved of the single-strain mRNA COVID-19 vaccines for people aged 12 and older and granted emergency use authorization for those aged 6 months to 11 years.
Help make CIDRAP's vital work possible
CIDRAP - Center for Infectious Disease Research & PolicyResearch and Innovation Office, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN
Email us
© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights Reserved.The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer
Research and Innovation Office|Contact U of M|Privacy Policy
Newsletter subscribe

Title: Has Islamic State Really Entered the Congo and is an IS Province There a Gamble? - Jamestown
May 31, 2019 05:05 PMAge: 5 years
As it lost control of key regions in Iraq and Syria, Islamic State (IS) may have found a foothold in the conflict-ridden Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC).
In April, IS claimed responsibility for two attacks on villages in eastern DRC, a region beset by rebel violence and the Ebola epidemic. On April 18, the militants claimed an attack on Kamango, a village near the town of Beni. Several soldiers were allegedly killed or wounded in the attack in the village near the Congo’s border with Uganda. The group claimed responsibility for the attack through its propaganda channel, the Amaq news agency (Business Focus,April 19).
In another statement, the militant group claimed responsibility for another attack on an army base in the village of Bovata in the Beni area. Three soldiers were allegedly killed in the attack and scores of civilians injured. The group used the alleged gains to announce the formation of the new Central Africa Province of the Caliphate. The group reportedly planted its flag in the area (The East African, April 19).
IS’ claims have not been independently verified, but analysts say their presence cannot be ignored given the many local militias operating in the region. The region is devastated by years of rebel insurgencies, and some of the old rebel groups could be giving IS an opportunity to export and expand its conflict to Central Africa.
IS has already made in-roads into North, East, and West Africa through local affiliates. An insurgency, linked to its factions allied to the northern Nigeria Islamist militant group Boko Haram, has been unfolding around Lake Chad. Multiple IS-linked militant groups have spread around the Sahel region of West Africa, and now in Central Africa in the DRC. Recently, actions linked to IS factions have been recorded in Somalia, the base of al-Qaeda’s affiliate in East Africa, al-Shabaab (Terrorism Monitor, January 25).
When IS claimed the attack in the DRC, it appeared to have completed a circle of footprints over the vast African continent. However, some analysts have disputed IS claims. They see it as an attempt by the group to portray itself as an international jihadist group.
Some government officials said the attack on the villages exhibited features of those carried out earlier by the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF). ADF is a shadowy Islamist rebel group that has fought the DRC and Ugandan governments for decades (The East African, June 19, 2018).
In early April while he was in Washington, DRC President Felix Tshisekendi said there were links between ADF and IS, and announced that he had joined the war against IS (The Nilewires, April 19).
According to reports, the group had also received financial support from at least one IS financier (The East African,April 19).
Background
The ADF, which is viewed as a Ugandan Islamist militant group, was founded around 1995 with the aim of overthrowing the Ugandan government and replacing it with one led through Sharia (Islamic law). Since then, it has been entrenched in the North Kivu region of the DRC near the Ruwenzori Mountains close to the Ugandan border (Uganda Radio Network, December 26, 2013;Daily Monitor, August 6, 2015).
Gradually, the group appears to have changed its interests to focus on the struggle for Islam. Until recently, its members included Muslim fighters who had been forced out of Uganda, but the membership appears to have shifted to include recruits from the wider East Africa region. Also, recent reports indicate that the group has been seeking attention from international terrorist groups such as al-Qaeda and IS.
According to the Congo Research Group (CRG), an independent research organization on the Congo, the ADF had been attempting to establish links with IS in recent years. ADF reportedly rebranded and acquired a new name—Medina wa Tawhid wal Muwahdeen (MTN) or the City of Monotheism and Monotheists. It had also adopted symbols similar to those of international jihadist groups (Congo Research Group,November 2018).
ADF was founded by Shaykh Jamil Mukulu, a Ugandan who converted from the Roman Catholic Church to Islam. Mukulu, born as David Staven, was known to be an ardent critic of Islam when he was a Christian. Converting to Islam, Mukulu quickly became a hardline Islamist following his exposure to Tablighi Jamaat teachings. Tablighi Jamaat is a missionary movement of Islam that urges Muslims to return to a certain practice of Islam, focusing on dress ritual and behavior.
Mukulu is believed to have spent time in Khartoum, where he met Osama bin Laden, the former al-Qaeda leader, and other Islamist militant leaders who had sought refuge there.
Some reports suggest Mukulu received extensive training in Sudan and Afghanistan following his encounter with Bin Laden, although this has not been confirmed. Regardless, this prepared him to form and lead an Islamist outfit that has remained resilient despite continued operations by the Congolese army and UN forces in the DRC.
Mukulu is now in prison in Kampala after he was extradited to Uganda following his arrest in Tanzania in 2015. He faces several charges including terrorism, murder, crimes against humanity, aiding and abetting terrorism, among others (New Vision,April 30, 2015;Uganda Radio Network, July 20, 2018).
Circumstances around the ADF’s formation can be traced to the actions of Ugandan Muslims in the 1990s. At that time, Ugandan Muslim groups were fighting for control of the powerful Nakasero Mosque in Kampala.
Both the Tablighi sect, which Mukulu belonged to, and Uganda’s national Muslims umbrella organization, the Uganda Muslim Supreme Council (UMSC), wanted to be given the control of the mosque. After a struggle in the courts, the Supreme Court handed the institution to the UMSC, an action that left the sect’s members disgruntled. The sect leaders felt the government had favored the UMSC and launched a series of protests, violently occupying mosques.
In 1991, the group attacked UMSC headquarters at the Aghan Khan Mosque, killing a number of people including policemen and dogs who came to restore order. Mukulu was at the forefront of the violence and was arrested with other members of the Tablighi sect in the ensuing government operation.
While in prison, Mukulu continued to spread radical Islam while mobilizing for a rebellion. As a result of his actions, a radical group named Uganda Muslim Freedom Fighters (UMFF) was formed in prison. One by one, as the members were set free, they would sneak to a training in a camp in a valley in the Buseruka area in western Uganda.
In 1994, the army raided their camps after a series of attacks, robberies, and kidnappings  in Uganda. Hundreds of the Islamists were arrested in the operation, but a large number escaped into the DRC, where they took refuge in the Beni area and in the eastern parts of the DRC.
With UMFF’s arrival, then DRC President Mobutu Sese Seko advised all anti-Uganda groups to form a united front that he could support. This gave rise to the ADF (Daily Monitor, August 5, 2015). Mobutu, as well as the Sudanese Islamist, Hassan al-Turabi, allegedly provided support to the group during its early stages. Another key supporter was deposed Sudanese President Hassan Omar al-Bashir (Daily Monitor,April 22, 2019)
In 1995, the ADF joined with the National Army for the Liberation of Uganda (NALU), an armed Ugandan movement in the DRC. NALU was fighting for the autonomy of a region known as Rwenzururu near the Congo. Around this time Mukulu was released from prison and snuck into the DRC, becoming the ADF-NALU’s spiritual leader and top military commander.
With Mukulu at the helm, the militants were blamed for increased attacks in eastern DRC and Uganda. There were reports indicating that the group had gained more strength after aligning itself with al-Shabaab, the Somalia-based al-Qaeda affiliate in East Africa. Observers had mentioned seeing al-Shabaab fighters among ADF-NALU militants. They also served as organizers of the attacks (New Vision,January 3, 2013).
Violence has escalated since 2014, with several high-profile attacks. On December 7, 2014, ADF-NALU was blamed for the killing of 36 people in the village of Oicha near Beni in North Kivu Province. The group also allegedly massacred more than 250 people in North Kivu Province over 16 separate incidents between October 2 and December 7, 2014. The attacks followed similar unsophisticated patterns that continue to this day, with assailants arriving at night slaughtering women and children.
Conclusion
Although IS’ claims that it executed an attack in the DRC and established the Central Africa Province in the Congo has not been independently verified, its claims cannot be ignored given the many local militias operating in the war-torn country.
While existing rebel groups could provide IS an opportunity to expand its presence in Africa, its growth in the DRC is likely to be limited in the short term due to a variety of factors.
The chances that the ADF, IS’ alleged affiliate, would take control of the region are quite slim. The ADF is largely a poorly equipped and formless militia operating in a region where many other armed actors hold control over the country’s territory and immense mineral wealth. It has also been a key focus of both the Ugandan and Congolese forces. Given these factors, it is likely that IS may just be trying to boost its ego and project strength after losing its territory in Iraq and Syria.
About the Event Join us Thursday, July 11, in...MORE
Jamestown Senior Fellow Olevs Nikers was recently interviewed by French news outlet L’Express about the recent North Atlantic Treaty Organization Summit (NATO) in Washington DC...MORE
Violence in Iraq has declined since its civil war of 2005-2007 due to the implementation of the U.S. counterinsurgency strategy, Shi’a militia ceasefires, and the emergence of Iraq’s Awakening Movement. But as the U.S. military draws down its forces, Iraq remains a fragile, un-reconciled state, riddled with sectarian tensions...MORE
1310 L St. NW, Suite 810Washington DC, 20005
PHONE:202.483.8888FAX: 202.483.8337E-MAIL:pubs@jamestown.org

Title: Nation - Breaking News, Kenya, Africa, Politics, Business, Sports | HOME | Nation
Court also banned him from public office for a decade.
Raila also promised to pursue a continental air control system to reduce bureaucratic hurdles.
Kuppet says it prefers talks over protracted court battles.
New officials will take over once the terms of the current office holders expire.
DPP urges the court to impose a maximum sentence on the politician.
Prof Mary Walingo in legal trouble after the university council accuses her of embezzlement.
However, he did not give a timeline on when this will happen.
Sponsored by HF Markets
Sponsored by Stand Up Young Africa (SUYA) Foundation
Sponsored by Tanzania Ports Authority
Sponsored by Open University of Kenya
The economic case of family planning and why it matters not only to individuals and families, but for the nation at large.
Article 57 of the Kenyan Constitution commands the State and the family to offer older persons in the society reasonable care and assistance. As per the Constitution older women and men are those...
From Frequently Asked Questions to school going children must register before reporting. Join the conversation with Health Lawyer, Margaret Nyambura , Dr Simon Kigondu and host, Dr Diana Wangari
Raila also promised to pursue a continental air control system to reduce bureaucratic hurdles.
Events from far and wide seemed to have converged to bring Raila Odinga good fortune.
Aviation Workers Union demands transparency as government scrambles to avert aviation crisis
Frequent and erratic revision of regulations creates shaky ground for the construction industry.
You’ll remember from last week that I hadn’t paid my rent for August three and a half weeks later, and I had only been given by the landlady till end-of-week to do so.
Prezzo, a pioneer in the Kenyan music scene, has significantly influenced the industry over the years.
A walk to a gym in Nairobi on any day, you can rest assured to find almost all women rocking those sports bras.
Muturi also said that the directors found a convenient excuse in non payment
Nation Media Group © 2024

Title: Andalucía suma dos fallecidos y ocho casos por PCR en una jornada en la que supera los 14.000 curados
MADRID, 05 (SERVIMEDIA)Fundación ONCE presentó este miércoles el II Congreso Internacional Universidad y Discapacidad, que se celebrará los próximos días 27 y 28 de noviembre en Madrid bajo el lema 'Universidades Inclusivas, Universidades de Futuro'.Según explicó la comisionada para Universidad, Juventud y Planes Especiales de Fundación ONCE, Isabel Martínez, “el objetivo de este congreso es promover el acceso y la participación de las personas con discapacidad en los estudios universitarios, así como promocionar acciones y políticas que incidan en una mayor inclusión de los sistemas universitarios”.A día de hoy el congreso cuenta con cerca de 300 inscritos, en su mayoría personal docente e investigador de universidades de los cinco continentes.En el encuentro "se tratará un amplio, extenso e intenso programa que se centrará en dar una visión general sobre la situación de las personas con discapacidad en el ámbito universitario, y en los retos de futuro, como la movilidad internacional, las nuevas tecnologías y plataformas digitales y el acceso a la empleabilidad”, manifestó Martínez.Además, la comisionada declaró que “gracias a iniciativas como estas, España puede ser un ejemplo de modelo educativo inclusivo y puede convertirse en un espejo en el que se mire el resto de Europa”.Por su parte, el presidente del Comité Español de Representantes de Personas con Discapacidad (Cermi), Luis Cayo Pérez Bueno, aseguró que el acceso de las personas con discapacidad a la educación superior es un ámbito crítico, ya que su tasa de actividad es de un 36%, y agregó que “para favorecer el tránsito hacia la empleabilidad es necesario que el Gobierno resuelva la compatibilidad de las prestaciones públicas de la Seguridad Social que reciben las personas con discapacidad, ya que cuando coinciden con otro tipo de ayuda pública llevan a la persona a elegir, lo que provoca el bloqueo a la formación y acceso al mundo laboral y condena a estas personas a mantenerse en la inactividad”.Esta iniciativa se enmarca en el convenio firmado el pasado mes de mayo entre Fundación ONCE, Fundación Universia, Fundación de PwC y Fundación Vodafone España con el objetivo de promover la mejora de la calidad educativa y de vida de las personas con discapacidad, acorde con los mandatos previstos en la Convención de la ONU sobre los Derechos de las Personas con Discapacidad, a través del conocimiento y difusión de experiencias, buenas prácticas e investigaciones en materia de Universidad y Discapacidad.
MADRID, 05 (SERVIMEDIA)
Fundación ONCE presentó este miércoles el II Congreso Internacional Universidad y Discapacidad, que se celebrará los próximos días 27 y 28 de noviembre en Madrid bajo el lema 'Universidades Inclusivas, Universidades de Futuro'.
Según explicó la comisionada para Universidad, Juventud y Planes Especiales de Fundación ONCE, Isabel Martínez, “el objetivo de este congreso es promover el acceso y la participación de las personas con discapacidad en los estudios universitarios, así como promocionar acciones y políticas que incidan en una mayor inclusión de los sistemas universitarios”.
A día de hoy el congreso cuenta con cerca de 300 inscritos, en su mayoría personal docente e investigador de universidades de los cinco continentes.
En el encuentro "se tratará un amplio, extenso e intenso programa que se centrará en dar una visión general sobre la situación de las personas con discapacidad en el ámbito universitario, y en los retos de futuro, como la movilidad internacional, las nuevas tecnologías y plataformas digitales y el acceso a la empleabilidad”, manifestó Martínez.
Además, la comisionada declaró que “gracias a iniciativas como estas, España puede ser un ejemplo de modelo educativo inclusivo y puede convertirse en un espejo en el que se mire el resto de Europa”.
Por su parte, el presidente del Comité Español de Representantes de Personas con Discapacidad (Cermi), Luis Cayo Pérez Bueno, aseguró que el acceso de las personas con discapacidad a la educación superior es un ámbito crítico, ya que su tasa de actividad es de un 36%, y agregó que “para favorecer el tránsito hacia la empleabilidad es necesario que el Gobierno resuelva la compatibilidad de las prestaciones públicas de la Seguridad Social que reciben las personas con discapacidad, ya que cuando coinciden con otro tipo de ayuda pública llevan a la persona a elegir, lo que provoca el bloqueo a la formación y acceso al mundo laboral y condena a estas personas a mantenerse en la inactividad”.
Esta iniciativa se enmarca en el convenio firmado el pasado mes de mayo entre Fundación ONCE, Fundación Universia, Fundación de PwC y Fundación Vodafone España con el objetivo de promover la mejora de la calidad educativa y de vida de las personas con discapacidad, acorde con los mandatos previstos en la Convención de la ONU sobre los Derechos de las Personas con Discapacidad, a través del conocimiento y difusión de experiencias, buenas prácticas e investigaciones en materia de Universidad y Discapacidad.

MADRID, 05 (SERVIMEDIA)
Fundación ONCE presentó este miércoles el II Congreso Internacional Universidad y Discapacidad, que se celebrará los próximos días 27 y 28 de noviembre en Madrid bajo el lema 'Universidades Inclusivas, Universidades de Futuro'.
Según explicó la comisionada para Universidad, Juventud y Planes Especiales de Fundación ONCE, Isabel Martínez, “el objetivo de este congreso es promover el acceso y la participación de las personas con discapacidad en los estudios universitarios, así como promocionar acciones y políticas que incidan en una mayor inclusión de los sistemas universitarios”.
A día de hoy el congreso cuenta con cerca de 300 inscritos, en su mayoría personal docente e investigador de universidades de los cinco continentes.
En el encuentro "se tratará un amplio, extenso e intenso programa que se centrará en dar una visión general sobre la situación de las personas con discapacidad en el ámbito universitario, y en los retos de futuro, como la movilidad internacional, las nuevas tecnologías y plataformas digitales y el acceso a la empleabilidad”, manifestó Martínez.
Además, la comisionada declaró que “gracias a iniciativas como estas, España puede ser un ejemplo de modelo educativo inclusivo y puede convertirse en un espejo en el que se mire el resto de Europa”.
Por su parte, el presidente del Comité Español de Representantes de Personas con Discapacidad (Cermi), Luis Cayo Pérez Bueno, aseguró que el acceso de las personas con discapacidad a la educación superior es un ámbito crítico, ya que su tasa de actividad es de un 36%, y agregó que “para favorecer el tránsito hacia la empleabilidad es necesario que el Gobierno resuelva la compatibilidad de las prestaciones públicas de la Seguridad Social que reciben las personas con discapacidad, ya que cuando coinciden con otro tipo de ayuda pública llevan a la persona a elegir, lo que provoca el bloqueo a la formación y acceso al mundo laboral y condena a estas personas a mantenerse en la inactividad”.
Esta iniciativa se enmarca en el convenio firmado el pasado mes de mayo entre Fundación ONCE, Fundación Universia, Fundación de PwC y Fundación Vodafone España con el objetivo de promover la mejora de la calidad educativa y de vida de las personas con discapacidad, acorde con los mandatos previstos en la Convención de la ONU sobre los Derechos de las Personas con Discapacidad, a través del conocimiento y difusión de experiencias, buenas prácticas e investigaciones en materia de Universidad y Discapacidad.

Menuda semana tras el breve descanso. Precios del petróleo, cifras de inflación, titulares fiscales y debates sobre la reunión del BCE de la próxima semana. Nos visitaron fantasmas del pasado, del presente y, potencialmente, del futuro próximo.
El consejero delegado de International Airlines Group (IAG), Luis Gallego, destacó este viernes “el buen funcionamiento” de los aeropuertos españoles en comparación con otros de Europa, entre los que citó los de Londres, Ámsterdam y Frankfurt, según dijo una conferencia con periodistas en relación con los resultados del ‘holding’ de Iberia y Vueling en el primer semestre.
Sugarbabe Deluxe es una plataforma de citas en línea de alto nivel que posee un carácter moderno y exclusivo, y que ofrece la oportunidad de hacer realidad el sueño de muchas personas mediante una gestión seria, discreta y cumpliendo todas las expectativas, tanto si se está buscando una relación de pareja a largo plazo, como si lo que se quiere es una aventura envuelta de mucha pasión y diversión para romper la rutina y evadirse.


Title: M23 ex-combatant shot dead, gun recovered - New Vision Official
Jun 13, 2019
CRIMEA Congolese and former M23 rebel combatant has been shot dead and SMG rifle that he reportedly carried recovered with 12 live ammunition.According to Police, Aloyse Ndayambaje male aged 33 years was put out of action by UPDF soldiers who were on operation in Gakoro village, Bunagana Parish, Muramba sub-county, in Kisoro district.Bunagana Parish is on Uganda's border with Eastern DR Congo.Kigezi Police Spokesperson Elly Maate said the incident happened in the wee hours of June 11, where a riffle registration number 1970 KT4733 was recovered."The suspected robber fired at our forces in the process of asking him to surrender in vain hence put him out of action. Police visited the scene and took the body to Kisoro Hospital Mortuary for post mortem,".He said the recovered gun and ammunition are under the custody of Kisoro Police.Maate said the body would be handed over to Congolese authorities although he didn't divulge details on the issue. "The victim now deceased has allegedly been a notorious criminal hiding in both DRC and Rwanda most of the times," he stated.

Title: Andalucía suma dos fallecidos y ocho casos por PCR en una jornada en la que supera los 14.000 curados
GOMA (R.D. CONGO), 4 (DPA/EP)Al menos quince personas, trece de ellas civiles, han muerto en enfrentamientos con presuntos milicianos de las Fuerzas Democráticas Aliadas (ADF, por sus siglas en inglés), presuntamente vinculados a Estado Islámico, en el este de República Democrática del Congo (RDC), según ha informado este martes un responsable local.Los enfrentamientos se produjeron el lunes por la noche en la localidad de Beni, según ha contado a DPA su alcalde en funciones, Bakwanamaha Modeste. "Lamentamos la muerte de trece civiles y dos militares", ha señalado, precisando que también ha muerto un rebelde.Según informa la emisora Radio Okapi, hubo un primer ataque hacia las 21.00 horas del lunes perpetrado principalmente por mujeres y niños que saquearon varias viviendas y que fueron interceptados por una patrulla del Ejército, desencadenándose un tiroteo. En su huida, los milicianos mataron a al menos dos personas que se encontraron por el camino.Ya este martes por la mañana, un segundo grupo de combatientes ha llevado a cabo una incursión en el barrio de Batanuka, donde habrían matado a unas diez personas, incluidos cuatro motoristas y un militar.El incidente se produce días después de que el Ejército congoleño informara de que había abatido a 26 miembros de las ADF en la misma región. El grupo armado se formó en 1995 y tiene su base de operaciones en la montañosa frontera entre RDC y Uganda. Es conocido por usar a niños soldados y ha sido acusado de graves violaciones de los Derechos Humanos.Es uno de los numerosos grupos rebeldes que están activos en el este de RDC, una zona particularmente rica en recursos minerales. Las ADF llevan a cabo frecuentes ataques contra civiles, pero recientemente ha sido responsable de ataques contra las fuerzas de paz de la ONU también.
GOMA (R.D. CONGO), 4 (DPA/EP)Al menos quince personas, trece de ellas civiles, han muerto en enfrentamientos con presuntos milicianos de las Fuerzas Democráticas Aliadas (ADF, por sus siglas en inglés), presuntamente vinculados a Estado Islámico, en el este de República Democrática del Congo (RDC), según ha informado este martes un responsable local.
Los enfrentamientos se produjeron el lunes por la noche en la localidad de Beni, según ha contado a DPA su alcalde en funciones, Bakwanamaha Modeste. "Lamentamos la muerte de trece civiles y dos militares", ha señalado, precisando que también ha muerto un rebelde.
Según informa la emisora Radio Okapi, hubo un primer ataque hacia las 21.00 horas del lunes perpetrado principalmente por mujeres y niños que saquearon varias viviendas y que fueron interceptados por una patrulla del Ejército, desencadenándose un tiroteo. En su huida, los milicianos mataron a al menos dos personas que se encontraron por el camino.
Ya este martes por la mañana, un segundo grupo de combatientes ha llevado a cabo una incursión en el barrio de Batanuka, donde habrían matado a unas diez personas, incluidos cuatro motoristas y un militar.
El incidente se produce días después de que el Ejército congoleño informara de que había abatido a 26 miembros de las ADF en la misma región. El grupo armado se formó en 1995 y tiene su base de operaciones en la montañosa frontera entre RDC y Uganda. Es conocido por usar a niños soldados y ha sido acusado de graves violaciones de los Derechos Humanos.
Es uno de los numerosos grupos rebeldes que están activos en el este de RDC, una zona particularmente rica en recursos minerales. Las ADF llevan a cabo frecuentes ataques contra civiles, pero recientemente ha sido responsable de ataques contra las fuerzas de paz de la ONU también.

GOMA (R.D. CONGO), 4 (DPA/EP)Al menos quince personas, trece de ellas civiles, han muerto en enfrentamientos con presuntos milicianos de las Fuerzas Democráticas Aliadas (ADF, por sus siglas en inglés), presuntamente vinculados a Estado Islámico, en el este de República Democrática del Congo (RDC), según ha informado este martes un responsable local.
Los enfrentamientos se produjeron el lunes por la noche en la localidad de Beni, según ha contado a DPA su alcalde en funciones, Bakwanamaha Modeste. "Lamentamos la muerte de trece civiles y dos militares", ha señalado, precisando que también ha muerto un rebelde.
Según informa la emisora Radio Okapi, hubo un primer ataque hacia las 21.00 horas del lunes perpetrado principalmente por mujeres y niños que saquearon varias viviendas y que fueron interceptados por una patrulla del Ejército, desencadenándose un tiroteo. En su huida, los milicianos mataron a al menos dos personas que se encontraron por el camino.
Ya este martes por la mañana, un segundo grupo de combatientes ha llevado a cabo una incursión en el barrio de Batanuka, donde habrían matado a unas diez personas, incluidos cuatro motoristas y un militar.
El incidente se produce días después de que el Ejército congoleño informara de que había abatido a 26 miembros de las ADF en la misma región. El grupo armado se formó en 1995 y tiene su base de operaciones en la montañosa frontera entre RDC y Uganda. Es conocido por usar a niños soldados y ha sido acusado de graves violaciones de los Derechos Humanos.
Es uno de los numerosos grupos rebeldes que están activos en el este de RDC, una zona particularmente rica en recursos minerales. Las ADF llevan a cabo frecuentes ataques contra civiles, pero recientemente ha sido responsable de ataques contra las fuerzas de paz de la ONU también.

Menuda semana tras el breve descanso. Precios del petróleo, cifras de inflación, titulares fiscales y debates sobre la reunión del BCE de la próxima semana. Nos visitaron fantasmas del pasado, del presente y, potencialmente, del futuro próximo.
El consejero delegado de International Airlines Group (IAG), Luis Gallego, destacó este viernes “el buen funcionamiento” de los aeropuertos españoles en comparación con otros de Europa, entre los que citó los de Londres, Ámsterdam y Frankfurt, según dijo una conferencia con periodistas en relación con los resultados del ‘holding’ de Iberia y Vueling en el primer semestre.
Sugarbabe Deluxe es una plataforma de citas en línea de alto nivel que posee un carácter moderno y exclusivo, y que ofrece la oportunidad de hacer realidad el sueño de muchas personas mediante una gestión seria, discreta y cumpliendo todas las expectativas, tanto si se está buscando una relación de pareja a largo plazo, como si lo que se quiere es una aventura envuelta de mucha pasión y diversión para romper la rutina y evadirse.


Title: SA peacekeeping troops in combat battle with ISIS terrorists in DRC – The Zimbabwe Mail


June 2, 2019Staff ReporterWorld News0

SOUTH African soldiers operating as UN peacekeepers in the Democratic Republic of Congo fought and defeated a faction linked to Islamic State (IS).In a statement yesterday, Brigadier General Mafi Mgobozi of the SANDF confirmed the skirmish, which took place early on Thursday.
The statement read: “The Quick Reaction Force (QRF) from the SANDF was activated when an illegal armed group from the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) launched an attack on a base in Ngite, North of Mavivi, belonging to Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of Congo (FARDC).
“South African peacekeepers on their way to Ngite, North of Mavivi, were ambushed by the ADF, managed to fight their way through and continued to Ngite to reinforce the FARDC.

On arrival, under heavy fire, a ferocious fight ensued.
“The QRF and FARDC fought fiercely and managed to inflict heavy causalities against the ADF. The ADF suffered 23 casualties killed in action and over 14 AK-47s, other weapons and equipment were captured.”


One South African peacekeeper was shot in the right foot. According to Mgobozi, the peacekeeper was treated and is in a stable condition.
He said: “Their deeds of bravery and committed service in pursuance of peace demonstrate that the SANDF soldiers are well equipped for any task and committed to the realisation of stability on the continent.
“The Chief of the SANDF would like to reassure South Africans that their soldiers have regrouped and resumed their mandate as part of the main force tasked by the UN to advance peace and stability in the DRC.”
Mgobozi confirmed that the ADF had links to IS. The fight was also reported by Al Jazeera, a media organisation based in the Middle East.
According to their report, last month the ADF carried out an attack in Bovata, also in the DRC. IS then put out a statement in which it described this attack as its first in the “Central Africa Province” of the “Caliphate” – the name it gave to the area of Syria and Iraq that it controlled for several years from 2014.
According to Al Jazeera, the ADF was formed in western Uganda in 1995 under the leadership of Jamil Mukulu, a Christian-turned-Muslim.
Sunday Tribune







published 44478 articles
Copyright © 2024 | The Zimbabwe Mail Online- Your News! Your Views! Your Life!

Title: Crecen los personajes LGBTIQ+ de series y películas hasta el 9,3% del total, pero bajan los de mujeres, que son el 44,8%
MADRID, 10 (EUROPA PRESS)Al menos siete personas, cinco civiles y dos militares, murieron durante el fin de semana en una serie de ataques perpetrados en la provincia de Ituri, en el noreste de República Democrática del Congo (RDC).Según las informaciones recogidas por la emisora local Radio Okapi, al menos tres personas murieron en un ataque llevado a cabo el sábado en la localidad de Gbi, situada en la orilla del lago Alberto.Asimismo, dos personas que fueron secuestradas fueron posteriormente ejecutadas por los atacantes, que además saquearon varias tiendas antes de darse a la fuga.Posteriormente, dos militares murieron en un ataque perpetrado contra varios puestos de control en la localidad de Tsukpa, situada en el territorio de Djugu de esta misma provincia.Por el momento ningún grupo ha reclamado la autoría de los ataques, si bien las autoridades han achacado los últimos incidentes de este tipo al grupo armado Fuerzas Democráticas Aliadas (ADF, por sus siglas en inglés).Las ADF se formaron en 1995 y tienen su base de operaciones en la montañosa frontera entre RDC y Uganda. Son conocidas por usar a niños soldados y han sido acusadas de graves violaciones de los Derechos Humanos.Así, es uno de los numerosos grupos rebeldes que están activos en el este de RDC, una zona particularmente rica en recursos minerales. Las ADF llevan a cabo frecuentes ataques contra civiles, pero recientemente ha sido responsable también de ataques contra las fuerzas de paz de la ONU.El grupo yihadista Estado Islámico ha reclamado recientemente la autoría de varios ataques achacados inicialmente a las ADF, en medio de los rumores sobre una posible asociación entre ambos grupos. Los yihadistas anunciaron además la creación de una nueva rama en la zona conocida como Provincia de África Central.
MADRID, 10 (EUROPA PRESS)Al menos siete personas, cinco civiles y dos militares, murieron durante el fin de semana en una serie de ataques perpetrados en la provincia de Ituri, en el noreste de República Democrática del Congo (RDC).
Según las informaciones recogidas por la emisora local Radio Okapi, al menos tres personas murieron en un ataque llevado a cabo el sábado en la localidad de Gbi, situada en la orilla del lago Alberto.
Asimismo, dos personas que fueron secuestradas fueron posteriormente ejecutadas por los atacantes, que además saquearon varias tiendas antes de darse a la fuga.
Posteriormente, dos militares murieron en un ataque perpetrado contra varios puestos de control en la localidad de Tsukpa, situada en el territorio de Djugu de esta misma provincia.
Por el momento ningún grupo ha reclamado la autoría de los ataques, si bien las autoridades han achacado los últimos incidentes de este tipo al grupo armado Fuerzas Democráticas Aliadas (ADF, por sus siglas en inglés).
Las ADF se formaron en 1995 y tienen su base de operaciones en la montañosa frontera entre RDC y Uganda. Son conocidas por usar a niños soldados y han sido acusadas de graves violaciones de los Derechos Humanos.
Así, es uno de los numerosos grupos rebeldes que están activos en el este de RDC, una zona particularmente rica en recursos minerales. Las ADF llevan a cabo frecuentes ataques contra civiles, pero recientemente ha sido responsable también de ataques contra las fuerzas de paz de la ONU.
El grupo yihadista Estado Islámico ha reclamado recientemente la autoría de varios ataques achacados inicialmente a las ADF, en medio de los rumores sobre una posible asociación entre ambos grupos. Los yihadistas anunciaron además la creación de una nueva rama en la zona conocida como Provincia de África Central.

MADRID, 10 (EUROPA PRESS)Al menos siete personas, cinco civiles y dos militares, murieron durante el fin de semana en una serie de ataques perpetrados en la provincia de Ituri, en el noreste de República Democrática del Congo (RDC).
Según las informaciones recogidas por la emisora local Radio Okapi, al menos tres personas murieron en un ataque llevado a cabo el sábado en la localidad de Gbi, situada en la orilla del lago Alberto.
Asimismo, dos personas que fueron secuestradas fueron posteriormente ejecutadas por los atacantes, que además saquearon varias tiendas antes de darse a la fuga.
Posteriormente, dos militares murieron en un ataque perpetrado contra varios puestos de control en la localidad de Tsukpa, situada en el territorio de Djugu de esta misma provincia.
Por el momento ningún grupo ha reclamado la autoría de los ataques, si bien las autoridades han achacado los últimos incidentes de este tipo al grupo armado Fuerzas Democráticas Aliadas (ADF, por sus siglas en inglés).
Las ADF se formaron en 1995 y tienen su base de operaciones en la montañosa frontera entre RDC y Uganda. Son conocidas por usar a niños soldados y han sido acusadas de graves violaciones de los Derechos Humanos.
Así, es uno de los numerosos grupos rebeldes que están activos en el este de RDC, una zona particularmente rica en recursos minerales. Las ADF llevan a cabo frecuentes ataques contra civiles, pero recientemente ha sido responsable también de ataques contra las fuerzas de paz de la ONU.
El grupo yihadista Estado Islámico ha reclamado recientemente la autoría de varios ataques achacados inicialmente a las ADF, en medio de los rumores sobre una posible asociación entre ambos grupos. Los yihadistas anunciaron además la creación de una nueva rama en la zona conocida como Provincia de África Central.

Menuda semana tras el breve descanso. Precios del petróleo, cifras de inflación, titulares fiscales y debates sobre la reunión del BCE de la próxima semana. Nos visitaron fantasmas del pasado, del presente y, potencialmente, del futuro próximo.
El consejero delegado de International Airlines Group (IAG), Luis Gallego, destacó este viernes “el buen funcionamiento” de los aeropuertos españoles en comparación con otros de Europa, entre los que citó los de Londres, Ámsterdam y Frankfurt, según dijo una conferencia con periodistas en relación con los resultados del ‘holding’ de Iberia y Vueling en el primer semestre.
Sugarbabe Deluxe es una plataforma de citas en línea de alto nivel que posee un carácter moderno y exclusivo, y que ofrece la oportunidad de hacer realidad el sueño de muchas personas mediante una gestión seria, discreta y cumpliendo todas las expectativas, tanto si se está buscando una relación de pareja a largo plazo, como si lo que se quiere es una aventura envuelta de mucha pasión y diversión para romper la rutina y evadirse.


Title: 
	Hallados más de 160 cadáveres tras los ataques de la semana pasada en el noreste de RDC

Menú
Boletines
Abonados
MADRID, 17 Jun. (EUROPA PRESS) -
Alrededor de 160 personas murieron en una serie de ataques llevados a cabo la semana pasada en el noreste de República Democrática del Congo (RDC), según han confirmado este lunes las autoridades locales tras terminar de peinar la zona en busca de cuerpos.
La sociedad civil de Bahema Norte, en el territorio de Djugu, en la provincia de Ituri, ha resaltado que durante el sábado han sido hallados 140 cuerpos, que se suman a los 21 localizados previamente en esta zona.
El presidente de la sociedad civil de Bahema Norte, Charité Banza Bavi, la cifra es provisional, dado que aún hay múltiples personas desaparecidas, tal y como ha recogido la emisora local Radio Okapi.
Los ataques fueron ejecutados por hombres que portaban armas blancas contra aldeas pobladas mayoritariamente por miembros de la etnia Hema. En los últimos meses han aumentado las tensiones entre los hema --mayoritariamente ganaderos-- y los granjeros lendu en Ituri.
Por el momento ningún grupo se ha atribuido la autoría del ataque. En la zona operan además grupos como las Fuerzas Democráticas Aliadas (ADF), que supuestamente mantienen lazos con el grupo yihadista Estado Islámico.
Irene Montero exige una "rectificación" a un ayuntamiento canario que le acusó de pintar piedras protegidas
Pablo Urdangarín, su llamativa respuesta a si es cierto que sus hermanos viven en Zarzuela con la Reina Sofía
Las acusaciones piden al juez del 'caso Begoña Gómez' que cite a una profesora del máster y a su enlace con Reale
La Comunidad solicita a los ayuntamientos de Leganés y Parla la cesión de dos parcelas para construir institutos
Alcaldes del PP de Cádiz critican a pie de autopista que la AP-4 se ha convertido en "un auténtico laberinto"
Portal de actualidad y noticias de la Agencia Europa Press.
© 2024 Europa Press. Está expresamente prohibida la redistribución y la redifusión de todo
    o parte de los contenidos de esta web sin su previo y expreso consentimiento.

Title: Rwanda's Kagame stars in DRC Tshisekedi ceremonies | News24
Thursday, 29 August
31 May 2019
Rwandan President Paul Kagame was the surprise guest at ceremonies in DRC on Friday to honour deceased opposition leader Etienne Tshisekedi hosted by his son Felix, the country's president.
Once the Democratic Republic of Congo's sworn enemy, Kagame joined Tshisekedi and Angolan President Joao Lourenco for a central African mini-summit ahead of the long-awaited tribute.
The three vowed to "strengthen the Congo-Angola-Rwanda axis" to "wipe out Congolese and foreign armed groups," a joint communique said, apparently referring to brutal militias which plague the DRC-Rwandan border.
DRC neighbour's Congo-Brazzaville President Denis Sassou Nguesso was also at the ceremony.
Tshisekedi died in Brussels in February 2017 at the age of 84.
He was a revered figure in the opposition for his resistance to former dictator Mobutu Sese Seko and ex-president Joseph Kabila.
He never got to see his son ascend to the presidency, after bitterly-fought elections at the end of last year that led to the first peaceful transition of power in the country's history.
His body was flown back to Kinshasa on Thursday aboard a private jet, ending a protracted battle by his family to secure its repatriation.
The coffin was displayed at the 80,000-seater Martyrs' Stadium in Kinshasa ahead of a mass in the evening. The funeral will take place on Saturday, at a mausoleum at Nsele, on the outskirts of Kinshasa.
However, the turnout was a far cry from the vast crowds and fervour the older Tshisekedi was able to muster in his heyday.
Several thousand people accompanied the hearse from the morgue to the stadium, and the venue itself was only half-full, AFP reporters said.
Kagame, who is also current head of the African Union (AU), last visited Kinshasa in 2010.
Relations between Rwanda and the DRC have been chilly since the 1990s, when Rwanda invaded the country to back rebels trying to overthrow Kabila's father, former president Laurent Kabila.
Despite an improvement in tone since Tshisekedi took over January 24, ties remain troubled by cross-border attacks on Rwandan forces by the Democratic Liberation Forces of Rwanda (FDLR), a rebel group based in the DRC.
The DRC, meanwhile, has accused Rwanda of pillaging coltan, a lucrative mineral used in electronic products, in the border region of North Kivu.
Tshisekedi tributes
Etienne Tshisekedi served as interior minister under Mobutu before joining the opposition, where he was a persistent thorn in the dictator's side.
He co-founded the Union for Democracy and Social Progress (UDPS) in 1982 after a stint in prison and in the 1990s was appointed prime minister several times, each time falling out with Mobutu after a matter of months or even days.
He boycotted the country's elections in 2006 on the grounds of fraud, and was beaten in the 2011 ballot, which was tainted by massive irregularities.
He died in Belgium, the former colonial power, where he had gone to seek medical treatment.
His son had vowed to repatriate his father's remains and bury them in his home country, but that wish was thwarted under Kabila.
The funeral has prompted tributes from fellow opposition figures as well as Kabila supporters.
Congolese Nobel Peace Prize winner Denis Mukwege praised Etienne Tshisekedi's fight for democratic values.
"It's up to us to give life to your heritage," he wrote on Twitter.
Martin Fayulu, another opposition figure, who says that a behind-the-scenes deal between Felix Tshisekedi and Kabila robbed him of victory in the presidential election, paid tribute to Etienne Tshisekedi's "fight for justice and democracy".
Praise also came from Kabila's own party, the Joint Front for Congo (FCC).
However, Kabila did not attend the stadium tribute, nor did Fayulu and another Kabila rival, Moise Katumbi, who returned to the country from self-imposed exile on May 20.
Indulge in the finer things
News24's new magazine is curated for those who understand luxury and want to celebrate the richness of life.
Free to listen for subscribers
News24's August audiobook that’s free to listen to for subscribers is The CEO X Factor by KC Rottok Chesaina.
Can you ace them all?
Today’s crossword, wordflower, sudoku and weekly news quiz
Friday Briefing - weekly
Insight and analysis on the big political story of the week, plus a roundup of top columns and reader favourites.
21 Aug
16 Aug
07 Aug
01 Aug
19 Jul
15 Jul

Use your voice to deepen the dialogue and engage with stories of courage, endurance, community, triumph, and the pursuit of truth in SA.
13 Aug
16 Jul
30 Jun
19 Jun
Contact the public editor with feedback for our journalists, complaints, queries or suggestions about articles on News24.
22 Aug
20 Aug
20 Aug
19 Aug

Title: M23 road closures over the next week as smart motorway project continues near Gatwick Airport - Surrey Live
The smart motorway project is due to run into spring 2020
Get the latest traffic & travel stories from Surrey Live straight to your inbox
We have more newsletters
Get the latest traffic & travel stories from Surrey Live straight to your inbox
We have more newsletters
TheM23smart motorway project continues with more closures on the spur road towardsGatwick Airport.
The road closurescould affect holidaymakers planning on getting an evening or early morning flight.
Highways England is upgrading the M23 between J8 and J10 to an all lane running smart motorway - similar to the M3's smart motorway upgrade.
Construction started in June 2018 and is expected to run until spring 2020 where, once complete, the motorway will have four running lanes in each direction with a variable speed limit controlled by signage.
The spur road towards Gatwick Airport will be upgraded to three lanes too.
Here are the details of the road closures over the seven days:
Saturday (June 22)
The eastbound Gatwick Spur Road will be closed between South Terminal roundabout and Junction 9. The outer lane of south Terminal roundabout and lane 3 at the exit of South Terminal will also be closed.
Traffic for the M23 will be diverted via Airport Way, A23 and A2011 to join the M23 at Junction 10.
Traffic management will start from 20:00 and the eastbound carriageway will be closed 21:00 to 04:00.
The westbound spur road into the airport will remain open for traffic and the main M23 carriageway is not affected.
Tuesday and Wednesday (June 25 and 26)
The westbound Gatwick Spur Road will be closed overnight for 2 nights. The northbound and southbound exit slip roads will also be closed during this time. Traffic management will begin from 20:00 and the spur will close at 21:00. The spur will reopen at 04:00.
Gatwick traffic will be diverted via M23 Junction 10 and via A2011, A23 and Airport Way. Northbound traffic which misses the initial diversion will follow a secondary diversion via M25 Junction 8 and back to M23 Junction 10 to pick up the first diversion through Crawley.
Thursday (June 27)
The southbound carriageway will be closed from Junction 8 (M25) to Junction 10 (Crawley) overnight on Thursday 27 June. The link roads from the M25 will also be closed.
Traffic will be diverted via M25 Junction 6 (Godstone), A22 and A264 to reach M23 Junction 10. Traffic for Gatwick will then follow the local diversion route via Crawley (A2011, A23, Airport Way).
Saturday (June 29)
The eastbound Gatwick Spur Road will be closed overnight on Saturday 29 June. The outer lane of South Terminal roundabout and lane 3 at the exit of South Terminal will also be closed. Traffic management will start at 20:00 and the road will be closed at 21:00. It will reopen at 04:00 on Sunday 30 June.
Traffic leaving Gatwick will be diverted via Airport Way, A23 and A2011 to join the M23 at Junction 10.


Title: Home | Monitor
Some Ugandan career diplomats believe that the majority of the political appointees are unfit and unsuitable to represent the country abroad
The judge's order is intended to facilitate the defense team's cross-examination of forensic scientist Andrew Kizimula Mubiru, scheduled to begin on September 10
More than half of Uganda’s population, estimated at 45.9 million, is under the age of 35, according to preliminary results of the latest national population and housing census conducted in May...
The nine-time champions have had to endure a season dominated by a series of problems.
Cheptegei expressed his gratitude, saying he is excited about building partnerships with supportive organisations
Concentrating government offices and activities in Kampala has created a property asset bubble in the capital that is at odds with how congested and unliveable the city has become
Much as the rear seats were designed to accommodate three passengers, they can comfortably take on four passengers and each will have enough legroom, even for long distances
Several subscribers have cancelled their pay TV subscriptions in favour of streaming services that provide on-demand content, flexible viewing options, and budget-friendly subscription plans.
When he met Aline Kalisa, Rogers Murungi was going through a divorce with the mother of his two children
Like someone had opened the floodgates, other symptoms followed on the heels of her snapping knees. The worst were the hot flashes
Manchester United forward Alejandro Garnacho has the potential to become a world class player, manager Erik ten Hag has said
Nation Media Group © 2024
It's free!
Access the best of Monitor's Independent Journalism

Title: The doctor who beat Ebola — and inspires other survivors to care for the sick
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
            the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
            Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
            and JavaScript.
Advertisement
You can also search for this author inPubMedGoogle Scholar
People with Ebola are isolated in treatment centres, such as this facility in Katwa, to prevent the virus from spreading. Credit: John Wessels forNature

This story was supported by a grant from the Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting.
Beni, Democratic Republic of the Congo
At first, Maurice Kakule Mutsunga suspected that the woman had malaria or typhoid: she was feverish and fatigued, and had been admitted to the hospital in Mangina in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) with terrible headaches and abdominal pain. Then blood began to drip from her nose.
The woman, who died from her illness, likely had Ebola. And Kakule, a doctor who treated her in early July 2018, soon developed similar symptoms — only a few weeks before the DRC government declared an outbreak of the virus. He’s now among the minority of people who have beaten Ebola during this outbreak.
Only about 620 of themore than 2,200 people who have contracted the virushave been cured, according to the DRC government. These survivors, who are protected from reinfection, are helping to curb the outbreak. They care for children in the throes of the disease, transport the sick to hospital, and fight fear and mistrust by telling their stories.
Their work has proved invaluable in the eastern DRC, where communities had no experience of Ebola before this outbreak began, says Marta Lado, an infectious-disease doctor working with the World Health Organization at Ebola treatment centres in Beni and Mangina.
“The majority of survivors are working in treatment centres, which helps us with patients,” she says — adding that the survivors’ presence also helps to dispel false but prolific rumours that it is the facilities, not the virus, that kill people. “Survivors see what is going on, and they are able to go to the community to talk about it in an easy way.”
When Kakule checked into a hospital in Beni last July, doctors treated his fever, diarrhoea and vomiting with antibiotics and intravenous fluids. After his condition worsened, Kakule's bewildered doctors moved him to a larger hospital. Physicians there thought he might have ingested poison, and added another antibiotic to his regimen. “We have never considered Ebola here, so you don’t think of it,” Kakule says.
He recovered and went home on 4 August, three days after the DRC government declared an outbreak in North Kivu province, where Beni is located. Almost immediately, his wife — who had spent weeks by his side in the hospital — developed Ebola symptoms.
The doctors and nurses at the centre where she was taken, and cured, told Kakule that many people were dying because they arrived too sick to be helped. That fed suspicion among people in Beni that Ebola symptoms could not be treated at the facilities. Some feared that the disease and the centres were part of a scheme to kill them.
Three women who have recently been cured of Ebola wait with their children for medical checks at a treatment centre in Beni.Credit: John Wessels forNature
Kakule traces this wariness tothe violence that has plagued the eastern DRCfor a quarter century. The Alliance of Democratic Forces (ADF), one of more than a dozen armed groups that roam the region, has brutally killed hundreds of people in and around Beni since 2014, despite the ubiquitous presence of troops from the DRC and the United Nations.
“ADF has come to kill us, and at the same time Ebola has come, so people think this is just another thing brought from the outside to kill,” says Kakule, whose father and uncle were killed by the group.
For nearly a year, Kakule has worked to fight misinformation about Ebola by sharing his story, and encouraging others who have beaten the virus to do the same. He formed the North Kivu and Ituri chapter of the National Association of Ebola Survivors last October. It now has nearly 500 members.
Many work in Ebola treatment centres as “gardes-malades”, consoling children and adults who are sick, frightened and isolated from other forms of human contact. The survivors also help their charges to eat, bathe and visit the toilet.
The system is especially helpful for the youngest patients. “In the West Africa outbreak, we struggled with children,” Lado says, referring to the largest known Ebola epidemic, which ended in 2016. Many treatment-centre workers would place sick children under the care of women who were also patients — and often too ill to help anyone else. “Now, most of the patients, especially the children, have a survivor caregiver,” Lado says.
Members of the North Kivu and Ituri survivor group have also begun to operate an informal ambulance service using motorcycles, which are the area's main mode of transportation.
The idea came to Kakule in October, when Ebola responders told him that many people with symptoms of infection refused to seek help at treatment centres. They were terrified of the facilities, and worried that their neighbours would ostracize them and their families if they were spotted getting into an ambulance.
One of the service's first clients was a pregnant woman who had Ebola symptoms but would not go to hospital. Kakule asked the woman if she’d ride on the back of his motorcycle, so that he could take her for treatment without drawing attention to her condition.
“I told her, I am an Ebola survivor and you’ll be like me,” he recalls. She agreed to go — and she survived.
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-019-01979-w
Correction 25 June 2019: This story originally misspelled the name of Maurice Kakule Mutsunga. This has been corrected.
Reprints and permissions
Meet the Ebola workers battling a virus in a war zone
World Health Organization resists declaring Ebola emergency — for third time
Ebola cases pass 2,000 as crisis escalates
‘The world has never seen anything like this’: WHO chief on battling Ebola in a war zone
Molecular mechanism of de novo replication by the Ebola virus polymerase
Article12 SEP 23
Don’t wait for an Ebola outbreak to vaccinate people against it
World View24 JAN 23
Even after COVID, the world’s vaccine strategy is failing
World View13 DEC 22
What accelerates brain ageing? This AI ‘brain clock’ points to answers
News27 AUG 24
Mysterious Oropouche virus is spreading: what you should know
News Q&A26 AUG 24
Bird flu could become a human pandemic. How are countries preparing?
News12 JUL 24
Detecting hidden brain injuries
Outlook29 AUG 24
Mpox is spreading rapidly. Here are the questions researchers are racing to answer
News28 AUG 24
Spatially clustered type I interferon responses at injury borderzones
Article28 AUG 24
Houston, Texas (US)
Baylor College of Medicine (BCM)
Modeling Autism Spectrum Disorders using genetically modified human stem cell-derived brain organoids and mouse models.
New York City, New York (US)
Weill Cornell Medical College
APPLICATION CLOSING DATE: September 29th, 2024   About the institute Human Technopole (HT) is an interdisciplinary life science research institute,...
Milan (IT)
Human Technopole
6 major schools are now hiring faculty members.
Shanghai, China
ShanghaiTech University
We seek exceptional candidates to lead vigorous independent research programs working in any area of neurobiology.
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China
School of Life Sciences, Westlake University
You have full access to this article via your institution.

Meet the Ebola workers battling a virus in a war zone
World Health Organization resists declaring Ebola emergency — for third time
Ebola cases pass 2,000 as crisis escalates
‘The world has never seen anything like this’: WHO chief on battling Ebola in a war zone
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Sign up for theNature Briefingnewsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Nature (Nature)ISSN1476-4687(online)ISSN0028-0836(print)
© 2024 Springer Nature Limited

Title: Smart Motorway conversion road closures on M23 affecting access to Gatwick Airport and M25 - Surrey Live
There are a series of overnight closures planned and diversions will be put in place
Get the latest traffic & travel stories from Surrey Live straight to your inbox
We have more newsletters
Get the latest traffic & travel stories from Surrey Live straight to your inbox
We have more newsletters
There will bemore overnight closureson the M23 affecting access to Gatwick Airport and the M25 as work progresses on the Smart Motorway conversion.
On Monday night (June 17) from 10pm to 5am there will be a full closure of the M23 north and southbound link roads to the M25 clockwise with a diversion via the M25 anti-clockwise to Junction 6.
If travelling toGatwick Airporton Tuesday (June 18) it may be advisable to leave extra time as the M23 southbound will be closed between Junction 8 to Junction 9 from 8pm to 5am.
Traffic will be diverted via the M25 Junction 6 (Godstone), A22 and A264 to join the M23 at Junction 10 (Crawley). Traffic for Gatwick will use the M23 northbound to access the airport via Junction 9.
There is also a full closure of the M23 between Junction 10 and Junction 8 northbound including slip roads on Tuesday (June 18) from 8pm to 5am. Diversions will be in place via the M25, A264, A22 and rejoin at J6 M25. Traffic will continue to Gatwick Airport via Crawley (A2011, A23, and Airport Way).
From Wednesday (June 19) to Friday (June 21) one lane will be closed on the M23 Junction 9 roundabout from 8pm to 5am.
Full road closures return on Saturday (June 22) with a closure of the M23 Junction 9a to 9 (Gatwick spur) Eastbound from 8pm to 5am. Diversions will be in place via Crawley (A2011, A23, and Airport Way) and rejoin the M23 at Junction 10.
The closures are the latest stage of the £164 million M23 Smart motorway works taking place between Junction 8 M25 and Junction 10 Crawley. Advance works started in July last year and the scheme is due to finish in spring 2020.
Key aspects of the project include converting the hard shoulder on the main M23 into a permanent fourth lane and increasing the westbound Gatwick spur to three lanes.


Title: Insécurité à l’est de la RDC : Bientôt une action régionale contre les groupes armés
L'AFDC-A va-t-elle quitter l'Union sacrée ?
Le gouvernement souligne l’urgence d’organiser le 2ème recensement général de la population
Nord-Kivu : des personnes non identifiées en provenance du Rwanda signalées à Lubero (alerte)
Kinshasa : Rawbank lance le tournoi de basketball universitaire 3X3 « All Star Game University »
Finance climatique en RDC : Rawbank montre la voie
Finance : l’AFC diversifie encore son actionnariat grâce à l’entrée au capital de Rawbank
Provinces
L’opération coordonnée qui pourrait bénéficier aussi du soutien « continu et approprié » de la communauté internationale comprendra les forces armées de la RDC, du Rwanda, de l’Ouganda, et de la Tanzanie.
Les chefs des renseignements de la République démocratique du Congo, du Rwanda, de l’Ouganda et de la Tanzanie  ont annoncé « ont convenu de l’urgence d’une action régionale coordonnée et concertée pour faire face à la menace posée par les forces négatives ».
D’après une source digne de foi citée par la presse belge, les pays de la région sont arrivés à cette décision après deux jours de travaux tenus les 5 et 6 juin, à Kinshasa
Près de 120 groupes armés ciblés
Selon le  communiqué rendu public à l’issue de ces assises régionales tenues dans la capitale congolaise, l’action régionale consiste à assurer « un échange continu de renseignements, une analyse approfondie et consensuelle ainsi qu’une planification conjointe entre les services de renseignement et de sécurité des États concernés ». Il est question d’agir  contre les groupes armés actifs dans l’Est de la RD Congo.
Les quatre pays de la région ont institué « un Groupe de travail technique » pour un état des lieux des groupes armés et des stratégies élaborées pour neutraliser les forces négatives. Par ailleurs, les quatre chefs des services de renseignement ont invité la communauté internationale « à assurer un soutien continu et approprié » à ce processus.
Dans un rapport conjoint publié fin 2017, l’ONG américaine Human Rights Watch (HRW) et le Groupe d’Études sur le Congo (GEC) de l’université de New-York avaient dénombré quelques 120 groupes armés et rébellions tant nationaux qu’étrangers opérant dans l’est de la RD Congo. Le groupe ougandais musulman Forces démocratiques alliées (ADF) et la rébellion rwandaise des Forces Démocratiques de Libération du Rwanda (FDLR) étant  considérés comme les plus actifs dans cette partie du pays.
Toutes les initiatives pour éradiquer ces groupes armés, par l’armée congolaise, les Casques bleus de la Mission de l’Organisation des Nations Unies pour la stabilisation en RD Congo (MONUSCO) ou encore suite à des opérations conjointes avec les armées des pays voisins n’ont jamais apporté les résultats escomptés.
Lecode à 7 caractères (précédé de « @ »)  à côté du Nomest leCode MediaCongo de l’utilisateur. Par exemple « Jeanne243 @AB25CDF ». Ce code est unique à chaque utilisateur. Il permet de différencier les utilisateurs.Poster un commentaire, réagir  ?Les commentaires et réactions sont postés librement, tout en respectant lesconditions d’utilisationde la plateforme mediacongo.net.  Vous pouvez cliquer sur  2 émojis au maximum.Merci et excellente expérience sur mediacongo.net,  première plateforme congolaiseMediaCongo – Support Utilisateurs
Réagir
Réagir
Réagir
Réagir
Réagir
Réagir
Réagir
Réagir
Réagir
Réagir
Réagir
Réagir
Les plus commentés
PolitiqueL'archibishop Kutino Fernando recommande au Président Félix Tshisekedi de ne pas être complaisant envers son entourage !
PolitiqueSeth Kikuni à Martin Fayulu : "S'il y aura dialogue, ça sera pour rappeler à Félix Tshisekedi en face qu'il est incompétent"
PolitiqueAppel à la cohésion nationale : le trio Kapita-Lisanga-Della pose une condition à Martin Fayulu
Société« 9 camions pleins de militaires Rwandais arrivent à Kibumba au Nord-Kivu » (Société civile)
Ont commenté cet article
Emma @HVZ53G8
Makye @GYJDU18
Le sage @SD3Y66Q
bob @65TAKTN
Vince Mutupeke @VJV8R63
KOKOLO MBUMBULU YELE @O6X6C39
kanf @MLGDWBJ
chunks @Z28NX2R
Baylon  @LN5Q8QJ

Ils nous font confiance

Title: Buriani: Wanajeshi wa Tanzania waliouawa DRC waagwa rasmi Dar es Salaam - BBC News Swahili
Hafla ya kuwaaga wanajeshi 14 wa Tanzania waliokuwa walinda amani wa Umoja wa Mataifa waliouawa nchini Jamhuri ya Demokrasia ya Congo imefanyika jiji Dar es Salaam.
Wanajeshi hao waliuawa baada ya kupigana na waasi kwa muda wa saa 13 kufuatia waasi hao kuishambulia kambi yao.
Sherehe hizo zimefanyika kwenye makao makuu ya jeshi la ulinzi na usalama Tanzania "gnome" upanga jijini Dar es Salaam
Mkuu wa ulinzi wa amani wa Umoja wa mataifa Jean Piare Lacroix, alihudhuria sherehe hizo. Familia za wanajeshi hao nazo zilikuwepo na zimeungana na wapendwa wao kuelekea mikoani.
Shambulio hilo lilitekelezwa Alhamisi jioni kwenye kambi ya jeshi ya Semuliki eneo la Beni katika mkoa wa Kivu Kaskazini.
Taarifa ya Umoja wa Mataifa ilisema wanajeshi 5 wa jeshi la DR Congo (FARDC) waliuawa pia kwenye shambulio hilo.
Umoja wa Mataifa unasema waasi wa ADF ndio wanaotuhumiwa kutekeleza shambulio hilo.
©2024 BBC. BBC haihusiki na taarifa za kutoka mitandao ya nje.Soma kuhusu mtazamo wetu wa viambatanishi vya nje.

Title: Majeshi yetu yaendelee kuwa macho na ugaidi - Mtanzania
Contact us:[email protected]
Jay Melody kutoana jasho na Diamond, Alikiba TMA
‘Beauty Queen’ Yazidi Kumpaisha Director P
Azam Media yazindua tamthilia mpya ya Mzani wa Mapenzi
Konshens aibuka na Shek It kideoni
H Money Atupa Jiwe ‘Tic Tik’ Akiwa na Reekado Banks
Hivi ndivyo Sweetbert Nkuba alivyojipanga kuiboresha TLS
Makala| Mfahamu Amani Josiah; kocha kijana anayetamani kufundisha soka la Kimataifa
UDSM and Oslo University Develop a Solution for Ethical Dilemmas in Healthcare Delivery in Tanzania
UDSM, OSLO vyaja na suluhisho la Mtanziko wa Kimaadili katika utoaji huduma za afya Tanzania
Uzalishaji kiwanda cha sukari TPC ulivyomkuna Mchechu
Azam Fc yakabidhiwa Milioni 5 za Goli la Mama
Hilmy kuiwakilisha Tanzania Paralimpiki 2024
Simba aipaisha Tanzania michuano ya kriketi
TPDF yatwaa ubingwa wa ‘hockey’
Black Mambaz yazikutanisha timu 13 za mpira wa magongo Dar
Jay Melody kutoana jasho na Diamond, Alikiba TMA
‘Beauty Queen’ Yazidi Kumpaisha Director P
Azam Media yazindua tamthilia mpya ya Mzani wa Mapenzi
Konshens aibuka na Shek It kideoni
H Money Atupa Jiwe ‘Tic Tik’ Akiwa na Reekado Banks
Hivi ndivyo Sweetbert Nkuba alivyojipanga kuiboresha TLS
Makala| Mfahamu Amani Josiah; kocha kijana anayetamani kufundisha soka la Kimataifa
UDSM and Oslo University Develop a Solution for Ethical Dilemmas in Healthcare Delivery in Tanzania
UDSM, OSLO vyaja na suluhisho la Mtanziko wa Kimaadili katika utoaji huduma za afya Tanzania
Uzalishaji kiwanda cha sukari TPC ulivyomkuna Mchechu
Azam Fc yakabidhiwa Milioni 5 za Goli la Mama
Hilmy kuiwakilisha Tanzania Paralimpiki 2024
Simba aipaisha Tanzania michuano ya kriketi
TPDF yatwaa ubingwa wa ‘hockey’
Black Mambaz yazikutanisha timu 13 za mpira wa magongo Dar
Na Javius Kaijage
KWA siku za
hivi karibuni wakuu wa vyombo vya ulinzi na usalama kutoka katika mataifa ya
Afrika Mashariki na Kati wamekutana nchini DRC ili kujadili kitisho cha ugaidi
wa kimataifa unaoonekana kulinyemelea bara la Afrika hususan ukanda wa Jangwa
la  Kusini mwa Sahara.
Hatua ya mataifa
ya Rwanda, Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi na Jamhuri ya Demokrasia ya Kongo (DRC)
kukutana mjini Kinshasa kujadili kitisho hiki, ni baada ya kuwepo tetesi kuwa
kundi linalojiita dola la Kislamu (ISIS) tayari limeishatua  nchini DRC.
Inasemekana
kundi hili hatari la dola la Kiislamu baada ya kufurushwa kwa nguvu kutoka katika
makazi yake ya Irak na Syria limeamua kujitanua katika mataifa ya Afrika ambako
linaamini haliwezi kupata upinzani mkali kivita.
ISIS ikiwa
DRC imekuwa ikishirikiana na   makundi ya
waasi yaliyodumu kwa muda mrefu yakiwemo ya Allied Democratic Forces (ADF)
kuishambulia nchi hiyo.
Kundi la
uasi la ADF ambalo limedumu zaidi ya miaka 20 nchini DRC huku likifanya mauaji
ya kutisha, inasemekana  linaendelea
kupata nguvu baada ya kupata msaada wa kifedha na rasilimali watu kutoka kundi
la kigaidi la ISIS.
Si tu Dola
la Kislamu limejikita katika nchi ya Jamhuri ya Kidemokrasia ya Congo
pekee,  bali pia kwa mujibu wa vyanzo
mbalimbali vya habari inaonekana kundi hili ni chanzo kikubwa cha mauaji ambayo
yamekuwa yakijitokeza mara kwa mara nchini Msumbiji.
Juni 4,
mwaka huu kundi hili la ISIS  limekiri
kufanya mashambulizi huko Msumbiji Kaskazini katika Jimbo la Cabo Delgado.
Ni kweli kwa
miaka kadhaa tumekuwa tukisikia kupitia vyombo mbalimbali vya habari kuwa kundi
hili la ISIS liko katika nchi za Afrika Magharibi zikiwemo za Mali na Burkina
Faso, lakini kusikika pia kwamba liko katika nchi za DRC na Msumbiji hakika ni
kitisho kikubwa kwa taifa letu.
Nasema ni
kitisho kikubwa kwa taifa letu la Tanzania kwa maana ya kwamba kijiografia nchi
za Msumbiji na DRC ni majirani zetu wa karibu hivyo mwingiliano wa watu kutoka
pande hizi katika shughuli za kisiasa, kiuchumi na kijamii lazima uwepo.
Hata hivyo
hakuna sababu ya watanzania kuogopa, kwani mara zote vyombo vyetu vya ulinzi na
usalama vimekuwa chachu ya kuwaletea wananchi usingizi mnono usio na
shaka.
Pamoja na
majeshi yetu ya kuwa na viwango vya juu sana katika medani za kivita bado kuna
sababu ya kutoridhika na mafanikio haya kwani ugaidi wa karne hii hufanyika
kisayansi na kwa mikakati mikubwa sana.
Magaidi
mamboleo ambao kimsingi hawana sare za utambulisho, huwezi kuwabaini kwa
maneno, matendo na hata hisia zao kwani mara nyingi sura zao huonyesha upole na
ukarimu kwa lengo la kutimiza kusudio lao.
Magaidi ni
viumbe wa ajabu sana kwani kwao kutumia maneno ya Mungu kinyume kutoka katika
vitabu vitakatifu ili kujitoa mhanga kufanya maangamizi ya kutisha  kupitia kujilipua, kuua kwa mtutu wa bunduki
au kuchinja ni jambo la kawaida.
Ni viumbe wa
kushangaza kwani mbali na kuyapotoa maneno matakatifu ya Mola, bado huendeleza
vitendo vya utekaji kwa  vijana wa kiume,
watoto wa kike, mabinti  na
wanawake.
Sasa ni nini
kifanyike? Cha kufanya ni wananchi kutoa taarifa mapema iwezekanavyo katika
sehemu husika mara wasikiapo au kuona viashiria vya uhalifu huu kwani majeshi
yetu yanao uwezo, nia na sababu ya kupambana na ugaidi kwa kishindo.
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.


Δ
Gazeti la Mtanzania "Fikra Yakinifu" ni gazeti makini linalogusa maisha ya mamilioni ya watanzania wa rika na jinsia zote. Mtanzania ni gazeti la kitaifa la kila siku linajivunia rekodi ya kuwa huru na kuaminika kubeba Habari, Makala na chambuzi, siasa, uchumi, elimu, michezo na burudani zenye ajenda za watanzania katika mtazamo wa kitanzania.
Contact us:[email protected]
© Copyright - New Habari (2006) Ltd

Title: More M23 closures between M25 and Gatwick Airport for Smart motorway works - Surrey Live
There are a series of overnight closures planned and diversions are in place
Get the latest traffic & travel stories from Surrey Live straight to your inbox
We have more newsletters
Get the latest traffic & travel stories from Surrey Live straight to your inbox
We have more newsletters
The M23 is experiencing a run of overnight closures as work progresses on the Smart motorway section.
The motorway was fully closed overnight on Saturday (June 8) to "facilitate installation of anew super gantry"near the M25 junction, according to a Gatwick Airport statement.
And there are further overnight closures planned for the coming days, with Gatwick warning that journeys to the airport will be "longer than normal".
Gatwick says the southbound section between Junction 8 M25 and Junction 9 Gatwick will be closed overnight on Sunday (June 9) to aid the installation of a new cantilever gantry. It is set to shut from 9pm until 5am on Monday.
Traffic will be diverted via the M25 Junction 6 (Godstone), A22 and A264 to join the M23 at Junction 10 (Crawley). Traffic for Gatwick will use the M23 northbound to access the airport via Junction 9.
The same section will be closed overnight on Monday (June 10) from 10pm to 5am, with the same diversions in place.
The westbound M23 spur at Junction 9 and both the northbound and southbound exit slip roads will be closed overnight on Tuesday (June 11). Gatwick says traffic management will start from 8pm and the spur will be closed from 9pm to 4am.
Southbound traffic will be diverted to M23 Junction 10 and via Crawley (A2011, A23 and Airport Way) to reach the airport.
Northbound traffic will be diverted off the M23 at Junction 10 and follow the same Crawley diversion to reach the airport. Drivers who miss this initial diversion will follow a secondary diversion via M25 Junction 8 (Reigate) and return via M23 southbound to Junction 10.
And the final overnight closure in this sequence will happen on Wednesday (June 12). The M23 northbound carriageway will be closed between Junction 10 (Crawley) and Junction 8 (M25). Again traffic management will start at 8pm and the motorway will reopen at around 5am. The southbound carriageway is unaffected by this work and will remain open to traffic.
Traffic for Gatwick will be diverted off the M23 at Junction 10 and via Crawley (A2011, A23, and Airport Way) to reach the airport.
Traffic for the M25 will be diverted off the M23 at Junction 10 and via A264 and A22 to join the M25 at Junction 6 (Godstone).
The closures are the latest stage of the £164 million M23 Smart motorway works taking place between Junction 8 M25 and Junction 10 Crawley. Advance works started in July last year and the scheme is due to finish in spring 2020.
Key aspects of the project include converting the hard shoulder on the main M23 into a permanent fourth lane and increasing the westbound Gatwick spur to three lanes.


Title: Kwa Picha: Miili ya wanajeshi waliouawa DRC yarejeshwa Tanzania - BBC News Swahili
Miili ya wanajeshi 14 wa Tanzania waliouawa wakihudumu katika kikosi cha Umoja wa Mataifa cha kulinda Amani nchini Jamhuri ya Kidemokrasia ya Congo imewasili jijini Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.
Miili hiyo imesafirishwa kwa ndege za Umoja wa Mataifa kutoka nchini DR Congo.
Waliuawa wakati wa shambulio lililotekelezwa Alhamisi jioni kwenye kambi ya jeshi ya Semuliki eneo la Beni katika mkoa wa Kivu Kaskazini.
Wanajeshi wengine zaidi ya 50 walijeruhiwa.
Umoja wa Mataifa ulisema wanajeshi 5 wa jeshi la DR Congo (FARDC) waliuawa pia kwenye shambulio hilo.
Waasi wa ADF ndio wanaotuhumiwa kutekeleza shambulio hilo.
Katibu Mkuu wa Umoja wa Mataifa Antonio Guterres alishutumu vikali shambulio hilo na kusema ni sawa na uhalifu wa kivita.
Aliitaka DR Congo kufanya uchunguzi kuhusu shambulio hilo na kusema kwamba waliohusika wanafaa kuwajibishwa.
Wanajeshi zaidi walitumwa eneo hilo na kamanda wa kikosi cha kulinda amani anaelekeza shughuli ya kuwaondoa majeruhi.
Bw Guterres alisema shambulio hilo ndilo mbaya zaidi kuwahi kutekelezwa dhidi ya walinda amani wa UN katika historia yake miaka ya karibuni.
©2024 BBC. BBC haihusiki na taarifa za kutoka mitandao ya nje.Soma kuhusu mtazamo wetu wa viambatanishi vya nje.

Title: M23 northbound near Gatwick closed following crash - recap - Surrey Live
"All emergency services" were in attendance
The M23 northbound nearGatwick Airportwas blocked by police following a crash.
All emergency services were in attendance at the scene between junctions 9 and 10, which took place at around 9.20am on Thursday (June 13).
Inrix, the travel updates service, said: "M23 Northbound closed, stationary traffic due to accident between J10 A264 Copthorne Way (Crawley) and J9 (Gatwick Airport).
"Congestion to J10A (Crawley South / Balcombe ). The road was blocked at around 09:40 with a full closure put in place at around 09:50. The accident happened at around 09:20 with all emergency services on scene."
A tweet from Highways England said: "M23 Northbound J10-J9 All lanes are closed and full closure at J10 will be taking place - Emergency services are on scene - Updates to follow."
Our photographer has said traffic is beginning to move, having been held for more than an hour.
Our photographer has said traffic is beginning to move, having been held for more than an hour.
SurreyLivephotographer Darren Pepe is at the scene of the crash on the M23, where a large oil or fuel spillage seems to have taken place.
**UPDATE** This incident is now all clear and all lanes are openhttps://t.co/yRxDuagx6d
There is currently nearly four miles of traffic on the M23 following a three-vehicle crash.
To avoid the congestion, see our full story on the diversions to use below.
M23 crash closure diversion routes after accident between Crawley and Gatwick
Two lanes have now been reopened after the M3 Northbound was closed for more than an hour.
One lane closed and queueing traffic for 3.5 miles due to recovery work and earlier accident on M23 Northbound between J10 A264 Copthorne Way (Crawley) and J9 (Gatwick Airport). Congestion to J11 ( Pease Pottage ).

Lane one (of three) remains closed after the road was fully closed at around 09:50 due to an accident that happened at 09:15. Lanes two and three were reopened at around 10:55.
The M23 Northbound remains closed and, as a result, there is now more than three miles of traffic stretching back from the scene of the crash, according to Inrix.
M23 Northbound closed, queueing traffic due to accident between J10 A264 Copthorne Way (Crawley) and J9 (Gatwick Airport). Congestion to J11 ( Pease Pottage ). The accident happened around 09:15 with the road shut around 09:50.

Trapped traffic is being released in lane three (of three). There is approximately 3.5 miles of queues approaching the closure.
For those stuck in the traffic resulting from the three-vehicle crash, diversions have been put in place by Highways England.
Diversion route details and guidance are:
Solid square symbol: Exit the M23 at J10 and travel east on the A264 to Felbridge. Turn left to travel north on the A22, continue to follow and join the M25 at J6. From here you can either travel clockwise to re-join the M23 or continue on other routes.
Gatwick Airport traffic can exit at J10 and travel west on the A2011 to access the airport.Diversion route details and guidance is as follows; Solid square symbol: Exit the M23 at J10 and travel east on the A264 to Felbridge. Turn left to travel north on the A22, continue to follow and join the M25 at J6. From here you can either travel clockwise to re-join the M23 or continue on other routes.
Gatwick Airport traffic can exit at J10 and travel west on the A2011 to access the airport.
Heading to@wembleystadiumfor@spicegirls#SpiceWorld2019concert this evening?#M23is CLOSED btwn J10 and J9@Gatwick_Airport, also 2 lanes closed#M3btwn J3 - J2 (#M25) causing 45 mins delay. Have a great time and check your vehicle before travel.#carchecks#SpiceWorld2019pic.twitter.com/EZ9DkahDDy
A spokesman for South East Coast Ambulance Service has said that multiple “walking wounded patients” were assessed at the scene, too.
We were called at approximately 9.15am today to reports of an RTC on the M23 between junctions 10 and 9.

Ambulance crews attended the scene and one patient has been taken to East Surrey Hospital. A number of walking wounded patients were assessed at the scene. Injuries reported included back pain and a leg injury.

**UPDATE** For information the closure of J10 is still taking place but trapped traffic is being allowed to pass in lane 3
The M23 Northbound remains closed as traffic continues to build.
M23 Northbound closed, stationary traffic due to accident between J10 A264 Copthorne Way (Crawley) and J9 (Gatwick Airport).

Congestion to J10A (Crawley South / Balcombe ). The accident happened around 09:15 with the road shut around 09:50. Trapped traffic is being released in lane three (of three).
Pls be aware the#M23#Surreyis CLOSED btwn J10#Crawleyand J9@Gatwick_Airportdue to a 3 car collision. For diversion info click on the link to our breaking news pagehttps://t.co/aIA171uRo3. There is approx 2 miles of congestion on approach to J10.https://t.co/yRxDuagx6d
**UPDATE** Lane 3 has now been released for traffic to pass scene - please drive carefully as emergency services still working in lanes 1 and 2https://t.co/yRxDuagx6d
A full statement from Highways England has said that police have closed the M23 Northbound while emergency services attend the scene of three-vehicle crash. it Adds:
The M23 is currently closed from J10 to J9 (Gatwick Airport) with delays of at least 30 minutes covering several miles of the northbound carriageway.

This closure is due to a 3 vehicle collision which is a police led incident, Highways England has resources deployed working hard to restore normal conditions as soon as possible.

For traffic approaching the closure locally, you are advised to expect disruption with extra journey time and may potentially have to re-route your journey.
**ACCIDENT**#M23Northbound#J10-J9 All lanes are closed and full closure at J10 will be taking place - Emergency services are on scene - Updates to follow

Title: Angelo Izama Confirms What is Already Known: Museveni’s Unrelenting Desire to Control Rwanda – KT PRESS

On Saturday, June 8, 2019, the Ugandan journalist Angelo Izama wrote in the Daily Monitor an article titled “How clashes of Egos drag Uganda and Rwanda to conflict.”
The article is part of a series of publications in Uganda’s newspapers that illustrate the misrepresentation of the current dispute between the two countries by the Ugandan intellectual elites and their constant refusal to tackle the real causes of the conflict.
Accordingly, the facts have become secondary and historical manipulations – as well as fallacious reasoning tending to establish a moral equivalence between the parties in conflict – are made to flourish.
First of all, the idea that the current conflict can be considered as an ego war must be rejected because it is based only on perceptions and not on proven facts.
The facts are stubborn. In 2001, Winnie Byanyima accused President Museveni of supporting elements of the FDLR in their belligerent project against Rwanda.
Uganda has more than once facilitated the flight of Rwandan military officers wanted by courts in their country. The Ugandan government has not only sabotaged efforts to build a railway linking Mombassa to Kigali that would have opened up Rwanda and reduced the cost of imports, but also it attacked Rwandan exporters who were hauling their goods (Milk or mining products) through Uganda. These are part of actions that have resulted in economic losses for Rwanda.
It is worth repeating that since 1998, the Ugandan government has intermittently led an indirect military war as well as an economic war against Rwanda.
Far from recognizing these facts and integrating them into the search for a solution, some Ugandan intellectuals are trying as best as they can to justify the hostile actions of their government against Rwandan nationals in Uganda.
Unsurprisingly, Mr. Izama argues that the Ugandan security services were infiltrated by Rwandan agents at a time when cooperation between the two countries had resumed.
But as Andrew Mwenda points out in his article “Kayihura, Kagame, Museveni”, in this arrangement between the two countries, Rwanda handed over 26 suspects to the Ugandan authorities, whereas Uganda handed over only 9. If cooperation has led to the infiltration of Ugandan security services, why does one feel that it is Uganda that has benefited the most?
Can we use the same argument to say that the reason such conditions prevailed was because Ugandan intelligence had infiltrated their Rwandan counterparts? If so were Ugandans similarly harassed, arrested or tortured in Rwanda?
Why are Rwandan nationals detained and tortured by the CMI not brought before the courts? The only explanation for this is that Ugandan elites are involved in fallacious reasoning that is otherwise known by its technical term as propaganda.
The second point on which Angelo Izama focuses is the assertion that political systems and ideologies that characterize the two countries, and which would explain the tensions between them, differ on tolerance; it’s the claim that the NRM has a more integrational policy that characterizes its governance.
Again the erroneous reasoning fails to mention the facts: Rwanda is the only country where as many genocidaires live in peace with their victims, a country that has integrated a large number of its adversaries – the ex-FAR – into its defense forces. Rwanda has repatriated thousands of FDLR combatants as well as their families who are now living in the country peacefully and participating in its development.
The Ugandan government cannot claim more openness or tolerance as it invokes the right of pursuit in its war against Joseph Kony or the ADF, for example.
And, in any case, at no time did Rwanda undertake to support Joseph Kony or the ADF in the name of a political vision that she would try to impose on her neighbor.
The Rwandan president has never met, either intentionally or accidentally, emissaries of Joseph Kony or those of the ADF in this warped logic of imposition.
And if President Kagame ever came to do it, he would not invoke the right to choose friends as a justification meant to silence informal and official protests from a neighbor and an ally.
Consequently, the current conflict is not an ego war, but a tutelage project in which the Ugandan government and Museveni interfere in the internal affairs of a sovereign country where they intend to impose a leadership more friendly to their own interests.
This unmitigated pursuit seems to supersede all other considerations, such as the well-being of the people and good neighborliness. Any reasonable person would conclude that this reading is evident in each of their actions since the clashes in Kisangani.
It’s also apparently in the condescending attitude that Mr. Izama brings to his analysis of the problem between the two countries where he thinks Uganda – and Museveni in particular – is justified to seek to impose his NRA vision in a sovereign state.


@ KT PRESS 2014 - 2024 . All Right Reserved.

Title: Angelo Izama Confirms What is Already Known: Museveni’s Unrelenting Desire to Control Rwanda – KT PRESS

On Saturday, June 8, 2019, the Ugandan journalist Angelo Izama wrote in the Daily Monitor an article titled “How clashes of Egos drag Uganda and Rwanda to conflict.”
The article is part of a series of publications in Uganda’s newspapers that illustrate the misrepresentation of the current dispute between the two countries by the Ugandan intellectual elites and their constant refusal to tackle the real causes of the conflict.
Accordingly, the facts have become secondary and historical manipulations – as well as fallacious reasoning tending to establish a moral equivalence between the parties in conflict – are made to flourish.
First of all, the idea that the current conflict can be considered as an ego war must be rejected because it is based only on perceptions and not on proven facts.
The facts are stubborn. In 2001, Winnie Byanyima accused President Museveni of supporting elements of the FDLR in their belligerent project against Rwanda.
Uganda has more than once facilitated the flight of Rwandan military officers wanted by courts in their country. The Ugandan government has not only sabotaged efforts to build a railway linking Mombassa to Kigali that would have opened up Rwanda and reduced the cost of imports, but also it attacked Rwandan exporters who were hauling their goods (Milk or mining products) through Uganda. These are part of actions that have resulted in economic losses for Rwanda.
It is worth repeating that since 1998, the Ugandan government has intermittently led an indirect military war as well as an economic war against Rwanda.
Far from recognizing these facts and integrating them into the search for a solution, some Ugandan intellectuals are trying as best as they can to justify the hostile actions of their government against Rwandan nationals in Uganda.
Unsurprisingly, Mr. Izama argues that the Ugandan security services were infiltrated by Rwandan agents at a time when cooperation between the two countries had resumed.
But as Andrew Mwenda points out in his article “Kayihura, Kagame, Museveni”, in this arrangement between the two countries, Rwanda handed over 26 suspects to the Ugandan authorities, whereas Uganda handed over only 9. If cooperation has led to the infiltration of Ugandan security services, why does one feel that it is Uganda that has benefited the most?
Can we use the same argument to say that the reason such conditions prevailed was because Ugandan intelligence had infiltrated their Rwandan counterparts? If so were Ugandans similarly harassed, arrested or tortured in Rwanda?
Why are Rwandan nationals detained and tortured by the CMI not brought before the courts? The only explanation for this is that Ugandan elites are involved in fallacious reasoning that is otherwise known by its technical term as propaganda.
The second point on which Angelo Izama focuses is the assertion that political systems and ideologies that characterize the two countries, and which would explain the tensions between them, differ on tolerance; it’s the claim that the NRM has a more integrational policy that characterizes its governance.
Again the erroneous reasoning fails to mention the facts: Rwanda is the only country where as many genocidaires live in peace with their victims, a country that has integrated a large number of its adversaries – the ex-FAR – into its defense forces. Rwanda has repatriated thousands of FDLR combatants as well as their families who are now living in the country peacefully and participating in its development.
The Ugandan government cannot claim more openness or tolerance as it invokes the right of pursuit in its war against Joseph Kony or the ADF, for example.
And, in any case, at no time did Rwanda undertake to support Joseph Kony or the ADF in the name of a political vision that she would try to impose on her neighbor.
The Rwandan president has never met, either intentionally or accidentally, emissaries of Joseph Kony or those of the ADF in this warped logic of imposition.
And if President Kagame ever came to do it, he would not invoke the right to choose friends as a justification meant to silence informal and official protests from a neighbor and an ally.
Consequently, the current conflict is not an ego war, but a tutelage project in which the Ugandan government and Museveni interfere in the internal affairs of a sovereign country where they intend to impose a leadership more friendly to their own interests.
This unmitigated pursuit seems to supersede all other considerations, such as the well-being of the people and good neighborliness. Any reasonable person would conclude that this reading is evident in each of their actions since the clashes in Kisangani.
It’s also apparently in the condescending attitude that Mr. Izama brings to his analysis of the problem between the two countries where he thinks Uganda – and Museveni in particular – is justified to seek to impose his NRA vision in a sovereign state.


@ KT PRESS 2014 - 2024 . All Right Reserved.

Title: Imani potofu na mashambulio changamoto za vita vya Ebola DRC - BBC News Swahili
Chanzo cha picha,Getty Images
Mashambulio ya Wanamgambo  na ukosefu wa imani ya jamii  kwa wafanyakazi  wa afya mashariki mwa Jamuhuri ya Kidemokrasi ya Kongo kunakwamisha juhudi za kudhibiti mlipuko wa hivi karibuni wa  Ebola ambao kwa sasa umesambaa hadi nchi jirani ya   Uganda.
Makundi ya waasi yenye silaha yamekuwa yakishambulia mara kwa mara vituo vya tiba ya Ebola, huku kukiwa kuna ukosefu wa imani miongoni mwa jamii za wakazi wa maeneo yaliyoathiriwa na Ebola ambao walaumu wageni kwa mlipuko ni masuala yanayofanya juhudi za kukabiliana na mlipuko huo kuwa ngumu katika  majimbo yenye mizozo ya  Ituri na Kivu.
Shirika la kuhudumia wakimbizi  UNHCR linasema kuwa watu 300,000  wamesambaratika kufuatia ghasia katika eneo hilo katikakipindi cha mwezi huu pekee.
Chanzo cha picha,Reuters
DRC imerekodi visa  2,025  vya Ebola  na vifo  1,357 vilivyosababishwa ugonjwa huo tangu ulipolipuka  mwezi Agosti 2018. Watu wawili waliovuka mpaka na kuingia Uganda kutoka Kongo   walikufa tarehe  12 Juni,  jambo lililozua hofu ya kusambaa kwa ugonjwa huo  katika kanda hiyo ya Afrika.
Hata hivyo , tarehe 14 Juni, Shirika la Afya duniani (WHO),  ambalo linaratibu shughuli za dharura  za kiafya za kukabiliana na mlipuko kwa ushirikiano na Wizara ya Afya  ya  DRC , waliamua kutotangaza ugnujwa kuwa dharura ya afya ya umma ya kimataifa.
Takriban watu 11,300 walikufa kutokana na mlipuko wa Ebola katika mataifa ya Guinea, Sierra Leone na  Liberia kati ya mwaka 2013 - 2016.
Umoja wa mataifa umeripoti  zaidi ya matukio 174  ya ghasia zinazoathiri wafanyakazi na vituo vinavyotoa huduma za dharura za  Ebola  katika majimbo ya Ituri na Kivu kaskazini tangu ulipoanza mlipuko. Matukio ,maarufu ni:
Chanzo cha picha,REUTERS
Mashambulio ya mwaka 2018:
Jinsi WHO na Serikali walivyokabiliana na Ebola:
Chanzo cha picha,JOHN WESSELS/OXFAM
Wizara ya afya ya DRC imepongezwa kwa juhudi za kudhibiti ugonjwa kabla ya mlipuko wa Ebola kutokea. Mamlaka nchini humo na jamii ya kimataifa wanasema  mashambulio yamesababisha udhibiti wa siku kwa siku wa mlipuko kubakia  mikononi mwa maafisa wa afya na WHO.
Hata hivyo , mauaji ya daktari wa WHO wa magonjwa ya maambukizi raia wa Cameroon katika mji wa  Butembo  yaliyofanywa na waasi wa Mai-Mai yameleta mabadiliko inapokuja katika kushughulikia hali ya tahadhari na kwamba  imekuwa wazi kuwa  kushughulikia mlipuko wa Ebola imekuwa ni vigumu kutokana na hali ya usalama katika eneo la mashariki mwa Jamuhuri ya Kidemokrasi ya Kongo.
Tukio hilo lilifuatiwa na msururu wa mashambulio ambapo viwango vya maambukizi viliongezeka mara dufu na kuibuka kwa mkanganyiko wa namna umma unavyopaswa kujikinga na mlipuko.
" Haiwezekani kusitisha maambukizi ya  Ebola katika hali kama hiyo wakati kuna uhasama na jamiii , uingiliaji wa kisiasa na makundi yenye silaha. Hali katika maeneo hayo haijaimarika vya kutosha kuwezesha huduma za umma kufanyika ,"amesema Mike Ryan, mkurugenzi wa  WHO anayehusika na mpango wa huduma za afya za dharura.
Kupungua kwa  kwa idadi ya visa na vifo kulisababishwa na ziara ya rais mpya  Felix Tshisekedi,  ambaye alitembelea kituo cha matibabu ya Ebolo mjini  Beni. Alianzisha kikundi cha uratibu wa  kiwango cha juu   ukiongozwa na waziri mkuu lakini haijabainika wazi kama kuna mafanikio yoyote kutokana na hatua hiyo au kama malengo yaliyotarajiwa yalifikiwa.
©2024 BBC. BBC haihusiki na taarifa za kutoka mitandao ya nje.Soma kuhusu mtazamo wetu wa viambatanishi vya nje.

Title: Briefs - Jamestown
June 14, 2019 05:56 PMAge: 5 years
Mozambique: Exploring Tentative Links Between Islamic State, ADF, and Ansar al-Sunnah
Brian M. Perkins
Islamic State (IS) claimed responsibility for an attack in Mozambique on June 4, the first such claim in the country. The attack was claimed by the newly minted Islamic State Central Africa Province (ISCAP), which has also taken responsibility for a series of attacks in territory controlled by the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The claim in Mozambique stated that its fighters repelled an attack by the Mozambican army in the village of Metubi in Mocimboa district and that its fighters killed and wounded several officers, making off with a stash of weapons.
The veracity of ISCAP’s claim is still unclear as is the accuracy of details regarding the timing and location of the attack to which the group is referring, which possibly occurred on May 28 when the Mozambican Army soldiers were involved in a clash with militants in Cabo Delgado’s Macomia district (Daily Maverick, June 5). The claim also referred to Metubi village, which is in Quissanga district rather than Mocimboa da Praia or Macomia (AllAfrica, June 6). Police officials have also refuted the claim, which has been a common theme as police officials commonly attribute attacks to unknown criminals rather than Ansar al-Sunna.
It is entirely possible that ISCAP had nothing to do with the purported attack or that no such attack happened as its claim fits their overall narrative and efforts to project growth in Africa. It is also possible that the confusion over locations between verifiable attacks and the details of the claim is a result of communication issues between those on the ground and the propaganda wing releasing the public statement. Regardless of the claim’s veracity, it does point to IS’ growing attention to Mozambique. Similarly, the claim raises several interesting questions and points to underlying suspicions regarding ISCAP’s presence in the DRC, relationship with ADF, and the mysterious insurgency boiling in northern Mozambique.
The insurgency Ansar al-Sunnah has waged in Mozambique has perplexed analysts across the world, and much of the conversation surrounding the group’s activity is speculation. Nonetheless, it is vitally important to explore even tentative connections between ISCAP and militants in northern Mozambique. ISCAP has seemingly made its way into the DRC through the ADF, or at least factions of that group that have trended more toward a hardline jihadist ideology that falls in line with IS. Meanwhile, the increasing evidence of ties between ADF in DRC and IS has also coincided with reports of ADF activity spilling into northern Mozambique from Uganda, a phenomenon not previously reported in that area. Most notably, Mozambican authorities arrested six Ugandan’s reportedly belonging to ‘The City of Monotheism and Monotheists’ (Madinat Tawhid-wa-I-Muwahidin—MTM), which is the rebranded faction of the ADF most likely to have links with ISCAP. The arrests reportedly occurred around May 2018 when Mozambican security forces raided a terrorist camp in Mocimboa da Praia, one of the main centers of Ansar al-Sunnah activity. Among those arrested was Abdul Rahman Faisal Nsamba, an alleged MTM member and leader of the Usafi Mosque in Kampala, which was raided by Ugandan forces for allegedly being a terrorist hideout with a storied history involving former ADF members (AllAfrica, May 9, 2018).
Aside from the more direct links suggested by these arrests, it is also possible that Ansar al-Sunnah is loosely linked to factions of ADF through smuggling networks that bring gold, ivory, and timber out of the Congo, Uganda, and Tanzania to coastal Mozambique. The arrest of Ugandans allegedly tied to the Islamist faction of the ADF in Ansar al-Sunnah’s area of operations, provides—if even just tentative—a potential link between the so-called ISCAP group in DRC and militants in Mozambique. Even if this connection has not been thoroughly established yet and the claim was false, IS is clearly paying attention to the insurgency in Mozambique and ISCAP is the most likely province to engage in outreach to eventually build a connection.
***
Yemen: How Development in Southern Yemen Affects the North-South Dynamic
Brian M. Perkins
The UAE has signed a $100 million deal to build a power plant in the southern port city of Aden. The agreement was signed between Abu Dhabi’s Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan Foundation for Humanitarian Works and Yemen’s Ministry of Electricity (Middle East Monitor, June 13). It is unclear when the project will start but it is expected to generate 120 megawatts and provide electricity to nearly 3 million Yemenis. The planned project is undoubtedly a positive step toward improving the lives of Yemenis, but it does bring with it a host of implications and second order effects worthy of discussion. This article is not at all intended to debate the merits of the power plant, but instead to demonstrate how such a project fits into the UAE’s longer-term goals and how positive development in southern Yemen will shift the historical north-south dynamic.
The UAE has undoubtedly saved and improved countless lives through much needed humanitarian aid and development projects, but at the same time, it is clear that the country has deeper long term strategic and economic goals for Yemen that these projects help serve. Among those goals is to establish a foothold at vital ports such as Aden and ingratiating themselves with locals as well as the government, which will be absolutely essential to achieving these aims. A similar but smaller scale approach has also been taking place on the island of Socotra, another strategic interest but one that has not felt the harsh effects of the war (Terrorism Monitor, May 7).
The UAE has been extremely calculating in the connections it has built in southern Yemen through its ties with the Southern Transitional Council (STC) and the establishment of various security forces. Meanwhile, development projects such as the power plant have also coincided with its interests.  As the war drags on there are important dynamics that will play out as a result of their strategic interests and involvement.
The most talked about dynamic is the rising call for secession among supporters of the STC and activists in southern Yemen. While southern secession would likely serve Abu Dhabi’s goals, it still remains a relatively unlikely outcome at this point in time, with some sort of federal system being more likely. The matter of independence for southern Yemen will be a stumbling block for any future settlement and could see a new violent conflict arise post settlement, particularly in view of disparities in development between north and south.
The power plant project also points to the inevitable shift of the dynamic between north and south Yemen. Southern Yemen has historically been marginalized in comparison to northern Yemen, with public infrastructure, development projects, and jobs always favoring northern governorates and people. The ongoing war, however, will undoubtedly start to shift that dynamic in favor of southern Yemen for two primary reasons—the disruption of longstanding northern patronage networks within the government and the devastating toll the war has had on the economy and infrastructure in northern Yemen. Southern governorates were largely spared the destruction northern Yemen has experienced and because there are no longer active fronts against the Houthis there, development projects have been underway for quite some time and will continue as the war drags on. Meanwhile, the north continues to be destroyed with no way of rebuilding vital infrastructure and homes until hostilities end. As such, when the war does come to an end, southern Yemen will be years ahead in terms of development and working infrastructure, despite still being plagued with its own problems. This fact will continue to feed animosity between the north and south whenever a settlement does come and will play into the calculations of whatever government does arise.
The UAE’s attempts to lay claim to southern Yemen and boost its economy will continue long after the war ends, and it is unclear who will be the main party to help pick up the pieces in northern Yemen, but the rate of development in southern Yemen will outpace the north. What is clear, however, is that the prominent political players in southern Yemen are unlikely interested in allowing money generated in southern Yemen to be used to help rebuild the north rather than keeping it for its own development. This fact will undoubtedly shape the outcome of any future settlement.
About the Event Join us Thursday, July 11, in...MORE
Jamestown Senior Fellow Olevs Nikers was recently interviewed by French news outlet L’Express about the recent North Atlantic Treaty Organization Summit (NATO) in Washington DC...MORE
Three months before the recent storming of Garissa University College in Kenya by al-Shabaab militants, Jamestown analyst Muhyadin Ahmed Roble wrote that the Somali terrorist group was still capable of mounting devastating attacks and remained a viable threat in regional security. In light of these attacks, Jamestown announces the...MORE
1310 L St. NW, Suite 810Washington DC, 20005
PHONE:202.483.8888FAX: 202.483.8337E-MAIL:pubs@jamestown.org

Title: Ebola Cases Surge Past 2,000 in DR Congo as Violent Unrest Intensifies
The Ebola epidemic in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) continues to get worse, with the latest government figures showing the number of confirmed and probable cases surging past 2,000 since last August. Fatalities in the amount of 1,348 have been recorded.
The good newsreportedbyDeutsche Welleon Tuesday is that the outbreak has not spread to densely-populated adjacent areas, and the latest experimental Ebola vaccine appears to be working. According to the report:
The world’s second-largest Ebola outbreak began in North Kivu province and then spread into Ituri province, although it has not yet spread to neighboring Rwanda and Uganda.
Response efforts have been hampered by distrustful communities and a plethora of armed groups regularly threatening and attacking health workers and treatment centers.
Without access to communities, health workers struggle to vaccinate those at risk, treat those infected, or trace contacts to halt the spread of the highly contagious hemorrhagic fever.
“As violence and insecurity continue to hamper daily operations and mistrust prevents people from seeking care, these numbers are likely an underestimate and not a realistic picture of the number of cases out there,” the International Rescue Committee warned.
Researchers say the rate of new Ebola cases has been accelerating as the security situation in the outbreak area deteriorates. According to some estimates, the number of new cases per week has tripled or quadrupled as responders are forced to suspend activities in the most unstable areas.
The United Nations is attempting to determine which of the many violent factions in the DRC is attacking Ebola responders. In an interview withNPRpublished on Tuesday, U.N. Emergency Ebola Coordinator David Gresslycriticizedthe DRC government for politicizing Ebola, creating a “perception that the Ebola outbreak was manufactured” to shut down voting in cities that supported opposition candidates.
Foreign aid groups report lingering feelings of anger and distrust for the government among Congolese who feel Ebola was used as an excuse to suppress their votes. Locals have spread conspiracies through social media, radio, and pamphlets that either Ebola is a hoax concocted by the DRC government to control the population and scam foreign aid money, or that Ebola is real and the government and foreign aid workers are deliberately spreading it as a biological weapon to kill off the rural population.
Gressly explained thatboth paranoid local militia groups and foreign guerrilla forces left over from the regional wars of the past three decades patrol the restless eastern portion of the DRC. All of these factions are willing to manipulate civilians with propaganda and murder them when necessary.
This ugly stew of political propaganda and factional violence has resulted in attacks on Ebola responders by both confused, terrorized tribesmen and well-armed militia forces. Gressly told NPR he believed some local politicians may be using militia groups as mercenaries to disrupt Ebola treatment to pursue their agendas, while criminal gangs are also using violence to protect illicit harvesting of timber and minerals or frighten the locals into paying for protection. He also mentioned the possibility that “traditional healers” resent well-funded foreign medical teams moving onto their turf and “stealing” their clients.
The outbreak zone got the very last thing it needed on Wednesday when the Islamic Stateclaimedresponsibility for an attack on the Ebola-struck city of Beni that killed and wounded at least 25 people. Local authorities believe the attack was perpetrated by an ISIS-allied insurgent group from Uganda called the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF).
NPR quoted criticism that the United Nations is reluctant to hit back too hard against politically-connected militia groups for fear of damaging its relationship with the DRC government and making it even harder to get doctors and medicine into the outbreak zone. Greesly promised that one of his goals is to end political “impunity” for attacks on health care workers.
TheBBCquoted aid workers who say they meet people in the Congo every day whodoubtthat Ebola exists. This level of mistrust is making it difficult for the World Health Organization (WHO) to monitor the spread of the disease. WHO currently believes it is “very likely” Ebola will spread from the DRC into neighboring countries.
“We are now seeing eight to 20 cases recorded each day, a number that is very likely an underestimate. Just a few months ago, we were only seeing three to five cases a day,” warned emergency response coordinator Tariq Riebl of the International Rescue Committee.
“To see such a spike in cases at this stage in the outbreak means a drastic change is required. This response requires a total and complete reset,” he said.
Pleaselet us knowif you're having issues with commenting.




Copyright © 2024 Breitbart

Title: DR Congo Rapport mensuel du cluster protection - Région : Nord-Est, Période de rapportage : avril 2019 - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWeb
DR Congo
Développements sécuritaires et politiques majeurs
PROVINCE DU NORD KIVU
Territoire de Nyiragongo: Malgré l’insécurité qui règne dans le parc et ses alentours, les populations riveraines continuent de s’y aventurer. Suite à une nouvelle alerte de viol de masse en début avril, le lundi 29 avril 2019, le cluster a organisé une mission d’échange avec les autorités territoriales de Nyiragongo. Selon elles, l’activité lucrative par excellence du groupe armé FDLR est la carbonisation des bois dans le parc. Les populations riveraines sont chargées d’écouler le charbon de bois produit sur les marchés et de faire la recette aux éléments de ce groupe armé. Dans certaines situations, le non-respect de l’accord passé avec le groupe armé donne lieu à des représailles (viol, meurtre et torture). L’autre volet est lié à la recherche du bois de chauffe pour la vente et la cuisson des repas. Mais le lien économique est pour la plupart du temps la cause principale des VBG dans la zone.
Territoire de Rutshuru: Dans le groupement de Kisigari, la population habitant les localités de Nyaruhongo, Kanyabusoro, Nkokwe, Ruvumu et Bugina s’insurgent contre les agressions et tracasseries commises par les militaires FARDC affectés dans cet axe. Selon des sources locales, 6 militaires FARDC auraient été identifiés par la population comme étant les présumés auteurs de ces faits.
Territoire de Masisi:
Le groupe armé NDC-R, impose le paiement de taxe (1000fc) par personne à partir de 15 ans révolus. Les jeunes sont très menacés et le risque est grand de voir la plupart regagner les groupés armés pour échapper à cette menace dans les zones sous contrôles des NDC-R.
Les 2 dernières semaines du mois d’avril ont été marquées par 3 incursions du groupe armé Nyatura dans les sites de PDIs de Ibuga et Kashuga. La dernière incursion dans la nuit du 23 au 24 avril 2019, vers 23h00, dans le site de Kashuga s’est soldée par l’enlèvement de 4 bergers (tous des déplacés de Kashuga) dont 2 hommes et 2 enfants. Le 27 avril 2019, 5 corps sans vie parmi lesquels les 4 bergers enlevés, ont été retrouvés dans la rivière Mweso à KASHUGA.
Territoire de Lubero: Le 16 avril, il a été rapporté un accident lié au REG dans le village Matinda, à 7km du village Vohoyo, Chefferie des Batangi dans la Valée du Lac Edouard et faisant état de 4 victimes dont 2 décès et 2 blessés pris en charge à l’hôpital général de Kayna.
Territoire de Beni:
Dans la chefferie de Watalinga, un mouvement important de population a été observé dans la semaine du 13 au 18 avril 2019, suite à l’attaque des présumés ADF. Environ 4000 ménages se sont déplacés du village de Ghangbanza vers 6 villages principalement : Kahondo, Nobili, N’sungu, Luanoli, Bugando et Kikura. Ils sont dans les familles d’accueil, les églises et écoles.
La situation de Kamango (territoire de Beni) continue de faire la une de l’actualité humanitaire. Les alertes reçues de la zone font état d’une situation préoccupante émaillée d’attaques des ADF contre les positions des FARDC dans l’axe Mbau-Kamango et à Bovanda à 6Km de Kamango. La situation reste volatile et les populations en déplacement craignent de nouvelles attaques. Le HCR Ouganda rapporte des déplacements dans la frontière avec la RD Congo. Comme contraintes, il est pour l’instant difficile d’accéder à la zone par l’axe Mbau-Kamango, dû au caractère volatile de la situation sécuritaire depuis le mois de septembre 2018. La seule possibilité d’accès à Kamango est via l’Ouganda qui fait 16 heures à partir de Goma. Pour ce qui est de la présence humanitaire et étatique dans la zone:
International NGO: seul Weltungerhilfe
National NGO: La Croix Rouge congolaise
Services étatiques présents: MCZ, DGM, les forces de sécurité étatique (Police, FARDC)
DR Congo
DR Congo+ 12 more
DR Congo+ 14 more
DR Congo+ 1 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: DRC Violence Threatens Lifesaving Ebola Operation
By Lisa Schlein June 29, 2019
A senior World Health Organization official warns efforts to contain the spread of the deadly Ebola virus in the Democratic Republic of Congo will remain elusive unless the vicious cycle of violence in the region is broken. Latest WHO figures put the number of Ebola cases at 2284, including 1540 deaths and 637 survivors.
WHO Assistant Director-General for Emergency Response Ibrahima Soce Fall says there has been good progress in scaling up operations to contain the spread of the deadly ebola virus in conflict-ridden North Kivu and Ituri provinces.
Fall has just returned from a three-month stint in Butembo, the epicenter of the Ebola epidemic in DR Congo. He says last week there were 79 new Ebola cases, 27 fewer than the previous week. He says infections are continuing to fall in the major urban centers of Butembo and Katwa thanks to coverage in all 33 health areas.
At the same time, he tells VOA the operation is running into difficulty in the rural areas of Mabalako and Mandima, the new hot spots of the epidemic.
"The access is more challenging. In the same area, we have some villages where you have both ADF (Allied Democratic Forces) armed group coming from Uganda and some Mai Mai groups," said Fall. "So, access needs to be assessed on a daily basis to be able to move up to the intervention. So, it is really important to take into account this very volatile situation."
Eastern DRC has been politically unstable since 1998. There are an estimated 4.5 million internally displaced people in the country. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees says new displacements are occurring mainly in the eastern provinces of Ituri and North and South Kivu. More than 100 armed groups reportedly are engaged in sporadic fighting in the region.
Fall says constant and skilled negotiations with the armed groups are needed to gain access to these volatile areas.
"The outbreak started there last year and spread to other areas," Fall said. "So, it is important to break this vicious cycle to contain very quickly the situation in Mabalako and Mandima, where we have more than 55 percent of the cases coming from."
Fall says it will be exceedingly difficult to contain the virus if more money is not immediately forthcoming. He says $98 million is needed to support the government-led response to defeat ebola. To date, he says less than half that amount has been received.

