Title: DR Congo forces kill leader of splinter Hutu armed group | News | Al Jazeera
DR Congo army says FDLR leader Musabimana Juvenal killed in a security operation in North Kivu province.
Congolese forces have killed a rebel leader and four of his bodyguards in a security operation in the restive east of the country, the Democratic Republic of the Congo’s (DRC) army said.
Troops killed Hutu rebel leader “Musabimana Juvenal, alias general Jean-Michel Africa… following an intense clash” on Saturday at Rutshuru in North Kivu province, a statement from the army seen by AFP news agency said.
“Operations remain under way around Rutshuru to wipe out armed local and foreign groups,”Major Guillaume Ndjike Kaiko,regional military spokesman, said.
Juvenal was a leader with the ethnic Hutu Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR) formed in the DRC in the aftermath of the 1994 Tutsi genocide in neighbouring Rwanda.
His killing comes barely two months after that of another FDLR commander, Sylvestre Mudacumura, in September. Mudacumura had been the subject of an international arrest warrant since 2012.
Rwandan Hutu refugees created the FDLR across the border in eastern DRC after the bloodbath which left some 800,000 dead, according to UN estimates.
Early last month, five men arrested following an attack in northern Rwanda that left five dead admitted to being FDLR rebels.
The FDLR has also been asource of frictionbetween Rwanda and Uganda in the last year. Rwanda accused Uganda in March of supporting the FDLR and another DRC-based rebel group opposed to the Rwandan government. Uganda denied the allegations.
Elsewhere in the country, military sources told AFP news agency four civilians were killed late on Saturday in an attack by Ugandan rebels near the northeastern city of Beni.
The sources said 25 rebels from the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) group were killed over several days of clashes, with the army losing six soldiers.
Saturday’s attack ascribed to the ADF occurred at Eringeti, some 60km (40 miles) from Beni.
Regional army spokesman Mak Hazukai told AFP the army was “pursuing operations” against the armed group, adding the latter had suffered “heavy losses”.
Authorities in DRC hold the ADF, one of the most violent of some 130 active armed groups in the country’s east, responsible for the massacre of hundreds of civilians in Beni since October 2014.
Since April, theIslamic Stateof Iraq and the Levant group (ISIL or ISIS) armed group has claimed responsibility for several of the attacks, but no proof has emerged of a link between it and the ADF.









Follow Al Jazeera English:

Title: MSN


Title: Home | Monitor
Some Ugandan career diplomats believe that the majority of the political appointees are unfit and unsuitable to represent the country abroad
The judge's order is intended to facilitate the defense team's cross-examination of forensic scientist Andrew Kizimula Mubiru, scheduled to begin on September 10
More than half of Uganda’s population, estimated at 45.9 million, is under the age of 35, according to preliminary results of the latest national population and housing census conducted in May...
The nine-time champions have had to endure a season dominated by a series of problems.
Cheptegei expressed his gratitude, saying he is excited about building partnerships with supportive organisations
Concentrating government offices and activities in Kampala has created a property asset bubble in the capital that is at odds with how congested and unliveable the city has become
Much as the rear seats were designed to accommodate three passengers, they can comfortably take on four passengers and each will have enough legroom, even for long distances
Several subscribers have cancelled their pay TV subscriptions in favour of streaming services that provide on-demand content, flexible viewing options, and budget-friendly subscription plans.
When he met Aline Kalisa, Rogers Murungi was going through a divorce with the mother of his two children
Like someone had opened the floodgates, other symptoms followed on the heels of her snapping knees. The worst were the hot flashes
Manchester United forward Alejandro Garnacho has the potential to become a world class player, manager Erik ten Hag has said
Nation Media Group © 2024
It's free!
Access the best of Monitor's Independent Journalism

Title: Congolese forces kill 25 rebels in offensive | Africanews
Please select your experience
Copy/paste the script below
OTHER WIDGETS
Congolese forces said on Saturday they had killed 25 rebels since launching an offensive against them late last month in an eastern region also struggling with an Ebola outbreak.
Seven soldiers from the Democratic Republic of Congo had also died since the campaign to root out the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) militia began on Oct. 30, the general in charge of the operation, Jacques Nduru, told Reuters.
He said the army had seized four of the group’s positions around the eastern city of Beni in North Kivu province. Regular militia attacks have hampered efforts to contain Ebola across the area.
The ADF, originally a Ugandan rebel group, has been operating along the Congo/Uganda border for more than two decades. It is one of a number of armed factions active in east Congo long after the official end of a 1998-2003 war.
The ADF is the most active of the 130 armed groups operating in eastern DRC listed by the Congo Group of Experts. It is one of the main foreign groups with the FDLR created by Rwandan Hutus after the Tutsi genocide in 1994.
Several of ADF’s attacks have been claimed by Islamic State, but the extent of their relationship remains unclear.
Reuters


Title: Nation - Breaking News, Kenya, Africa, Politics, Business, Sports | HOME | Nation
Court also banned him from public office for a decade.
Raila also promised to pursue a continental air control system to reduce bureaucratic hurdles.
Kuppet says it prefers talks over protracted court battles.
New officials will take over once the terms of the current office holders expire.
DPP urges the court to impose a maximum sentence on the politician.
Prof Mary Walingo in legal trouble after the university council accuses her of embezzlement.
However, he did not give a timeline on when this will happen.
Sponsored by HF Markets
Sponsored by Stand Up Young Africa (SUYA) Foundation
Sponsored by Tanzania Ports Authority
Sponsored by Open University of Kenya
The economic case of family planning and why it matters not only to individuals and families, but for the nation at large.
Article 57 of the Kenyan Constitution commands the State and the family to offer older persons in the society reasonable care and assistance. As per the Constitution older women and men are those...
From Frequently Asked Questions to school going children must register before reporting. Join the conversation with Health Lawyer, Margaret Nyambura , Dr Simon Kigondu and host, Dr Diana Wangari
Raila also promised to pursue a continental air control system to reduce bureaucratic hurdles.
Events from far and wide seemed to have converged to bring Raila Odinga good fortune.
Aviation Workers Union demands transparency as government scrambles to avert aviation crisis
Frequent and erratic revision of regulations creates shaky ground for the construction industry.
You’ll remember from last week that I hadn’t paid my rent for August three and a half weeks later, and I had only been given by the landlady till end-of-week to do so.
Prezzo, a pioneer in the Kenyan music scene, has significantly influenced the industry over the years.
A walk to a gym in Nairobi on any day, you can rest assured to find almost all women rocking those sports bras.
Sururu, 32, is a double amputee.
Nation Media Group © 2024

Title: November: When ADF overrun Kasese towns - New Vision Official
Nov 21, 2019
The ADF was formed by Jamil Mukulu. Mukulu was born to David Steven and was baptized as a Catholic, later converting to Islam, adopting a Muslim name and becoming radicalized.He reportedly spent the early 90s in Khartoum, Sudan, coming into personal contact with Osama bin Laden.Prosper Mbabazi, Henry Katantazi and Andrew Mpendo all survivors of the Kichwamba Technical Institute InfernoFormed in 1989, ADF carried out its first attacks in 1995. The conflict gradually intensified, culminating into the 1998 Kichwamba Technical College attack, which left 80 people dead, with 80 more being abducted.By 2002, continuous pressure from the Ugandan Army forced ADF to relocate most of its activities into the DR Congo. The insurgency continued on a smaller scale until 2013, which marked a resurgence of ADF activity, with the group launching a recruitment campaign along with numerous attacks.2nd Division Commander Brig. Hudson Mukasa listens to one of the Allied Democratic Force (ADF) rebels, Sgt. Muzamil Kabogoza explains his fate after he was captured by the UPDF with the ammunition on display at the banks of Semuliki River in Rwakasenyi, Burondo Parish, Bundibugyo district on Wednesday 28/03/07.Timeline13thNovember 1996: ADF perpetrated its first large-scale attack on the towns of Bwera and Mpondwe-Lhubiriha in Kasese district, Uganda. Approximately 50 people were killed in the attack. 25,000 people fled the towns.20thFebruary 1998:ADF abducted 30 children, in the aftermath of an attack on a Seventh-Day Adventist College in Mitandi, Kasese district.8thJune 1998:ADF rebels killed 80 students of the Kichwamba Technical College in Kabarole District, Uganda. 80 students were abducted in the same raid.9th December 1999: ADF attacked the Katojo prison facility, releasing 360 prisoners held for terrorism.Former ADF rebel Sheikh Abudu Majid Magoola13thApril 2007:UPDF and ADF engaged in an intense battle inside the Semuliki National Park, near the upscale Semliki Lodge tourist destination.May 2008:Ceasefire and amnesty talks between the government of Uganda and the ADF were held in Nairobi. At least 48 ADF fighters surrendered and were given amnesty.4th December 2007:200 ADF and NALU militants surrendered to Ugandan authorities.24thJanuary 2012:Insurgents tortured and later executed 13 people who were previously abducted from the city of Oicha, North Kivu.ADF Fighters Charged,-Buganda Road Court-25.03In April 2013,it was reported that ADF started a recruitment campaign in Kampala and other parts of the country.23rdSeptember 2013:3 people were killed during an ADF attack in the Watalinga Sector, North Kivu, DRC.27thSeptember 2013:ADF militants killed five and abducted 30 people in an attack on a health center in the city of Maleki, DRC23rdOctober 2013:ADF guerrillas abducted 26 people from the village of Upira, North Kivu, later transferring them to the rebel strongholds of Makembi and Chuchubo.14thDecember 2013:13 people were killed, in the aftermath of an ADF attack on the Musuku village, Uganda.15thDecember 2013:ADF killed eight people in the Biangolo village, Uganda.17thJanuary 2014: Congolese army drove ADF militants soldiers out of the city of Beni, with the aid of UN's "Intervention Brigade" peace corps.23rd March 2014:South African helicopters struck ADF forces for the first time, in support of Operation Sukola 1.Mrs-Janet-Museveni-visits-David-Birungi-who-was-burnt-during-the-ADF-rebel-attack-on-Kichwamba.-06.0718thOctober 2014:ADF insurgents killed over 20 people, in an attack on the village of Byalos, DRC.14thJanuary 2015:A joint MONUSCO - FARDC offensive forced ADF militants out of the Mavure village, North Kivu. One rebel was killed, as government forces seized large amounts of drugs and training materials.30thApril 2015:ADF's leader, Jamil Mukulu, was arrested in Tanzania.8th October 2017:The ADF attacked a UN base in Goma, killing two peacekeepers and wounding 12.3rd November 2018: Allied Democratic Forces Rebels killed at least 7 people and abducted 15 others including 10 children in raids and attacks in the DRC's North Kivu province.[68]16thNovember 2018:An ADF ambush near Beni, DRC, leaves 8 UN peacekeepers and 12 Congolese soldiers dead and 10 peacekeepers wounded. Additionally, one peacekeeper remains missing.19thNovember 2019:20 people killed in Beni and Oicha.
The ADF was formed by Jamil Mukulu. Mukulu was born to David Steven and was baptized as a Catholic, later converting to Islam, adopting a Muslim name and becoming radicalized.
He reportedly spent the early 90s in Khartoum, Sudan, coming into personal contact with Osama bin Laden.
Formed in 1989, ADF carried out its first attacks in 1995. The conflict gradually intensified, culminating into the 1998 Kichwamba Technical College attack, which left 80 people dead, with 80 more being abducted.
By 2002, continuous pressure from the Ugandan Army forced ADF to relocate most of its activities into the DR Congo. The insurgency continued on a smaller scale until 2013, which marked a resurgence of ADF activity, with the group launching a recruitment campaign along with numerous attacks.
Timeline13thNovember 1996: ADF perpetrated its first large-scale attack on the towns of Bwera and Mpondwe-Lhubiriha in Kasese district, Uganda. Approximately 50 people were killed in the attack. 25,000 people fled the towns.20thFebruary 1998:ADF abducted 30 children, in the aftermath of an attack on a Seventh-Day Adventist College in Mitandi, Kasese district.8thJune 1998:ADF rebels killed 80 students of the Kichwamba Technical College in Kabarole District, Uganda. 80 students were abducted in the same raid.9th December 1999: ADF attacked the Katojo prison facility, releasing 360 prisoners held for terrorism.
13thApril 2007:UPDF and ADF engaged in an intense battle inside the Semuliki National Park, near the upscale Semliki Lodge tourist destination.May 2008:Ceasefire and amnesty talks between the government of Uganda and the ADF were held in Nairobi. At least 48 ADF fighters surrendered and were given amnesty.4th December 2007:200 ADF and NALU militants surrendered to Ugandan authorities.24thJanuary 2012:Insurgents tortured and later executed 13 people who were previously abducted from the city of Oicha, North Kivu.
In April 2013,it was reported that ADF started a recruitment campaign in Kampala and other parts of the country.23rdSeptember 2013:3 people were killed during an ADF attack in the Watalinga Sector, North Kivu, DRC.27thSeptember 2013:ADF militants killed five and abducted 30 people in an attack on a health center in the city of Maleki, DRC23rdOctober 2013:ADF guerrillas abducted 26 people from the village of Upira, North Kivu, later transferring them to the rebel strongholds of Makembi and Chuchubo.14thDecember 2013:13 people were killed, in the aftermath of an ADF attack on the Musuku village, Uganda.15thDecember 2013:ADF killed eight people in the Biangolo village, Uganda.17thJanuary 2014: Congolese army drove ADF militants soldiers out of the city of Beni, with the aid of UN's "Intervention Brigade" peace corps.23rd March 2014:South African helicopters struck ADF forces for the first time, in support of Operation Sukola 1.
18thOctober 2014:ADF insurgents killed over 20 people, in an attack on the village of Byalos, DRC.14thJanuary 2015:A joint MONUSCO - FARDC offensive forced ADF militants out of the Mavure village, North Kivu. One rebel was killed, as government forces seized large amounts of drugs and training materials.30thApril 2015:ADF's leader, Jamil Mukulu, was arrested in Tanzania.8th October 2017:The ADF attacked a UN base in Goma, killing two peacekeepers and wounding 12.3rd November 2018: Allied Democratic Forces Rebels killed at least 7 people and abducted 15 others including 10 children in raids and attacks in the DRC's North Kivu province.[68]16thNovember 2018:An ADF ambush near Beni, DRC, leaves 8 UN peacekeepers and 12 Congolese soldiers dead and 10 peacekeepers wounded. Additionally, one peacekeeper remains missing.19thNovember 2019:20 people killed in Beni and Oicha.



Title: At least 10 civilians killed in DR Congo village raid | News | Al Jazeera
Two others kidnapped as fighters storm village in country’s east, days after army operation launched against rebels.
Armed attackers killed 10 people and kidnapped two others during a raid on a village in the eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo(DRC).
Donat Kibwana, alocal official, accused the fighters of belonging to a rebel group.
Fighters stormed the village of Kokola in Beni territory on Monday evening, Kibwana said.
The rebel group known as the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), originally fromUganda, has been operating along the DRC-Uganda border for more than 20 years, one of a number of armed factions active in the DRC’s east long after the official end of a 1998-2003 war.
“The mode of the attack was the same as that of the ADF,”Kibwanatold Reuters news agency.
The attack came five days after the DRC’s armylauncheda large-scale operation against rebel groups, primarily targeting ADF fighters, in an area which is also fighting to contain the second-worstEbolaepidemic on record.
“While the army launched the large-scale operations deep into the forest, the rebels took the opportunity to attack the towns and civilians,” Kibwana added.
Several of ADF’s previous attacks have been claimed by theIslamic Stateof Iraq and the Levant (ISILor ISIS) group, but the extent of their relationship remains unclear.
The ADF is not known to have pledged loyalty to ISIL.
Six DRC soldiers were also killed in clashes around Kokola on Monday night, according to sources cited by the Kivu Security Tracker (KST), a website that monitors violence in the region.
KST, which is a collaboration between New York University’s Congo Research Group and New York-based Human Rights Watch (HRW), said at least eight villagers were killed. The information could not be independently verified.
The presence of the rebel group, along with a constellation of other fighters and armed criminal bands, has severely hampered efforts to contain theEbola epidemic, which has infected more than 3,000 people and killed about 2,000 since August last year.
An estimated 160 rebel groups with a total of more than 20,000 fighters are still active in the DRC’s east.
TheUnited Nationshas tried to stabilise the country for the past 20 years with a 15,000-strong peacekeeping force.









Follow Al Jazeera English:

Title: At least 10 civilians killed by ADF rebels as DR Congo army offensive continues
Between 10 and 21 civilians were killed in two attacks in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo, where government forces have launched an offensive against armed groups, media reported on Wednesday.
Seven people were killed and two soldiers injured in the city of Beni, and between three and 14 were killed in Mavete, near Oicha, 30 km (18 miles) away,accordingto the U.N.’s Radio Okapi, which cited the military, and local civil society.
The attacks late Tuesday, November 19 were blamed on the Allied Democratic Forces, a militia of Ugandan origin targeted by the army campaign to restore peace to DR Congo’s troubled east.
Radio Okapi had earlierreportedan overnight ADF attack in the Boikene district of Beni.
According to a toll compiled by AFP, at least 60 people have been reported killed in attacks blamed on the ADF since theArmed Forces of DR Congo (FARDC) launched the offensiveon October 30. On November 17, Radio Okapireportedthat 48 civilians had been killed in the previous week.
Citing the U.N. Refugee Agency (UNHCR), the European Commission on Wednesdayreportedthat at least 2,560 displaced people – 91% women and children – moved towards Beni on Monday, and people fleeing fighting and attacks are moving from Mbau and Oicha towards Beni.
Commentators see the attacks as warnings to the local population against collaborating with government forces.
On Wednesday, groups of young people demonstrated in Boikene, calling on the army, police andMONUSCO, the United Nations peacekeeping mission in DR Congo, to ensure the safety of the population, Radio Okapi reported.
Protesters barricaded roads, lit a fire near a U.N. base and attacked U.N. vehicles, Actualite.cdreported.
MONUSCO peacekeepers were advised not to go out on the streets of Beni, AFP reported.
In remarks published on Tuesday, Leila Zerrougui, the Special Representative of the U.N. Secretary-General in the DRC,stressedthat MONUSCO was not part of the military operation.
“The government has decided an offensive operation. We are not associated with this operation. We did not do joint planning. It is a government decision to go on an offensive against an armed group,” Zerrougui said.
“We support the areas that remain behind, so as not to allow infiltration and revenge against the population. We provide medical support, transport the wounded, take care of them,” she said.
Zerrougui said MOUUSCO “following the operation” against the ADF.
“We have no objection to that, and we also provide support to protect populations and build the capacity of the FARDC,” she added.
MONUSCO’s acting Force Commander, General Thierry Lion, similarly stressed that the force was not involved in the planning of the operation.
“The operations launched by the FARDC are national, led by the FARDC, and sovereign,” Lionsaidin a Monday interview.
But he noted support given by MONUSCO to DR Congo forces, including three helicopter extractions of injured troops.
“We did a number of reconnaissance flights of the zones, at the request of the FARDC, in which FARDC officers took part to see with us the situation directly in the field,” Lion said. “We carried out several military evacuations, including soldiers who were wounded in fighting. Extractions conducted in combat zone which are still high risk, given the situation, for both soldiers and helicopter crews.”
Reacting to apparent criticism over MONUSCO not deploying its Intervention Brigade or attack helicopters to support the operation, Lion said the jungle conditions made air support difficult.
“In a jungle fight with attack helicopters, it is very difficult to identify a target. In the jungle, it is very difficult to distinguish where the friendly units are and where the ADF are,” Lion said.
Democratic Republic of Congo has been wracked by conflict near its eastern border, with many of the militias having evolved from the two Congo wars (1996-1997 and 1998-2003).
The Beni territory, in the North Kivu province which borders Uganda and Rwanda, has been particularly affected by militia violence.
Among the militias troubling the Kivu area are the Allied Democratic Forces, an Islamist-rooted armed group that has been linked to Islamic State Central Africa Province, and the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR).
Both groups have been blamed for a string of atrocities in eastern DRC, but they are also a source of political friction between the DRC and its neighbors because of their cross-border nature.
In April,ISIS formally recognized its Central Africa Province in Democratic Republic of Congo, when its centrally controlled media outlets began to attribute attacks to ISCAP, and during his first video appearance in five years,ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi was seen viewing a document entitled “Wilayat Central Africa.”
There was earlier evidence thatISIS had ties to the Allied Democratic Forces, a Ugandan-led but DR Congo-based militant group that mainly operates in the border area of North Kivu province, but it is unclear if the new ISIS affiliate is the ADF, a splinter group, or a different organization.
Formed in 1995, the ADF is thought to have killed hundreds of civilians and more than 20 U.N. peacekeepers, but although it is often blamed for killings, robberies and kidnappings, numerous armed groups operate in the region and it is often difficult to be certain who the true assailants are.
President Felix Tshisekediorderedthe operation in Kivu “to launch a final assault against all national and foreign armed groups with a view to restoring total peace in the Far North.”
DR Congo’s government has in the past accused neighboring governments of seeking to destabilize the country, while those accused have in turn said DRC is a haven for groups that oppose them.
UN chief Guterres warns of ‘continental scale’ terrorism in Africa

With reporting from AFP
The Defense Post aims to publish a wide range of high-quality opinion and analysis from a diverse array of people – do you want to send us yours?Click here to submit an Op-Ed

Title: MSN


Title: DR Congo army launches 'large-scale operations' against militias in Beni territory
Democratic Republic of Congo’s army said Thursday, October 31 that it had launched “large-scale operations” against armed militias in the country’s troubled east.
“The DRC armed forces launched large-scale operations overnight Wednesday to eradicate all domestic and foreign armed groups that plague the east of the country and destabilize the Great Lakes region,” General Léon Richard Kasonga, spokesperson of the Armed Forces of DR Congo (FARDC), told AFP.
“The operation was launched from Nyaleke [in Beni territory], where artillery shelled rebel positions,” he said. “Ground troops have been engaged since this morning.”
The FARDCtweetedthat “a series of large-scale operations against ADF militiamen in Beni territory as well as satellite armed groups” had been launched.
“These operations will be conducted by our army without any foreign support,” it added.
Five Great Lakes countries – the Democratic Republic of Congo, Burundi, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda – decided last week to coordinate their military operations in the region, AFP reported.
MONUSCO, the United Nations peacekeeping mission in DR Congo, has supported Congolese troops in the region, but hasruled out giving any support to foreign forces.
“We have no mandate to support foreign forces who enter the DRC,” MONUSCO head Leila Zerrougui said last week.
The Congolese army shared a video with the media showing tanks firing shells and soldiers taking positions on a dirt road in a mostly deserted village. Scattered gunfire could be heard in the background.
Actualite.cdreportedthat distant detonations of heavy weapons could be heard from the city of Beni on Wednesday night.
The impoverished central African country has been wracked by conflict near its eastern border, with many of the militias having evolved from the two Congo wars (1996-1997 and 1998-2003).
The Beni region, in the North Kivu province which borders Uganda and Rwanda, has been particularly affected by militia violence.
Among the militias troubling the Kivu area are theAllied Democratic Forces, an Islamist-rooted Ugandan armed group that has been linked to Islamic State Central Africa Province, and the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR).
Both groups have been blamed for a string of atrocities in eastern DRC, but they are also a source of political friction between the DRC and its neighbors because of their cross-border nature.
The Congolese army has in recent weeks been significantly increasing the number of personnel in the Beni region. Earlier this month, the governmentsaidthere were 21,000 soldiers in Beni, almost doubling the forces previously deployed. President Felix Tshisekedi ordered the increase “to launch a final assault against all national and foreign armed groups with a view to restoring total peace in the Far North.”
DR Congo’s government has in the past accused neighboring governments of seeking to destabilize the country, while those accused have in turn have said DRC is a haven for groups that oppose them.
With reporting from AFP
The Defense Post aims to publish a wide range of high-quality opinion and analysis from a diverse array of people – do you want to send us yours?Click here to submit an Op-Ed

Title: DR Congo Army Launches Major Operation Against Militias
01.11.2019 10:11
The Congolese army launched a major military operation against armed groups in the eastern part of the country, a military spokesman said late Thursday.Maj. Gen. Leon Kasonga said the large-scale operation -- launched on Oct. 29 -- is to completely eradicate armed groups, including Ugandan rebels of Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), from the region."The FARDC [Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo] have launched offensive operations to eradicate all armed groups. They are the ADF, all the Mai-Mai groups operating in the far north in Beni, Butembo, and Lubero, but also all armed groups in the eastern DRC; both in North Kivu and South Kivu," Kasonga was "ed by the UN's Radio Okapi as saying.Kasonga said the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, or MONUSCO, will support the operation."MONUSCO is a privileged partner. Not only will it continue to protect Congolese communities and the Congolese population, but also at the request of the Congolese armed forces, MONUSCO will be able to provide support of various kinds," he said.For the last 20 years, eastern Congo has seen a number of conflicts broke out over ethnic and land disputes, control of mineral resources and rivalries between neighboring states.The ADF rebels -- originating in Uganda, Congo's northeast, in the 1990s -- have been attacking and killing civilians in eastern DRC for over two decades.The ADF rebels have left aside their political demands as they are mostly involved in trafficking of minerals in the eastern DRC which is rich in gold."Armed groups in Democratic Republic of Congo's eastern Kivu provinces have killed 1,900 civilians and abducted more than 3,300 others between June 2017 and June 2019," Human Rights Watch said in a report released in August. -


Title: MSN


Title: DRC: Kwanini wanamgambo wenye silaha wanaendelea na ukatili dhidi ya raia ilhali kuna kikosi cha MONUSCO? - BBC News Swahili
Chanzo cha picha,AFP
Historia ya hivi karibuni ya Jamhuri ya Kidemokrsaia ya Congo imekuwa ya taifa lililozongwa na ukosefu wa usalama, licha ya nchi hiyo kuwa na utajiri mkubwa unaotoakana na madini na rasilimali.
Ukosefu huu wa usalama, ambao umekithiri sana mashariki mwa nchi hiyo, umetia doa historia nzuri iliaondikishwa mapema mwaka huu kufwatia uchaguzi kufanyika na rais kukabiliwa madaraka bila umwagikaji damu.
Alipochukuwa hatamu ya uongozi mnamo Januari mwaka  wa 2019 rais Felix Tsishekedi alirithi majanga kadhaa, ikiwemo lile la homa hatari ya Ebola iliyotishia afya ya taifa zima la DRC, na pia mapigano yanayoendelea mashariki mwa taifa hilo hasa maeneo ya Beni, Butembo na mkoa wa Kivu kaskazini.
Mamia wameuawa na maelfu wengine kuachwa bila makao.
Kutokana na ukosefu wa usalama, wakaazi wenye hasira katika miji ya Beni, Butembo na Goma wamekuwa wakiandamana tangu mwanzo wa wiki hii kulalamikia majeshi ya kulinda amani ya Umoja wa Mataifa maarufu kama MONUSCO kwa kutowalinda dhidi ya mashambulizi ya wanamgambo waliokita mizizi mashariki mwa taifa hilo.
Afisi ya meya wa Beni lilichomwa moto pamoja na kituo cha askari wa MUNUSCO wakati wa maandamano hayo.
Lakini swali kuu ambalo limesalia kwenye vinywa vya wengi ni je, kwanini wanamgambo wenye silaha wanaendelea na ukatili dhidi ya raia ilhali kuna kikosi cha MONUSCO chenye askari zaidi ya alfu sita?
Na je, inakuwaje operesheni mahsusi ya kijeshi iliyoanzishwa hivi karibuni na vikosi vya usalama vya DRC inaendelea huku raia raia wakiendelea kuwauwa kinyama na makundi ya wanamgambo mashariki mwa nchi hiyo?
Chanzo cha picha,Getty Images
Nalo kanisa katoliki, lililo na ushawishi mkubwa katika maswala ya DRC, limetoa mwito serikali ya rais Tsishekedi kufanya kile iwezalo kukomesha mausaji ya raia.
Wachanganuzi wa maswala ya kiuslama wanasema kwamba yafaa majukumu ya vikosi vya umoja wa mataifa ndani ya DRC yabadilishwe.
Mmojawao ni George Musamali anayetoa tetesi kwamba wakati umewadia kwa MONUSCO kupigana vita.
"Umoja wa mataifa yafaa uchukuwe uamuzi wa haraka na kutoa idhini kwa wanajeshi wa kulinda amani waanze kupigana vita dhidi ya wanamgambo wenye silaha mashariki mwa DRC...wakishirikiana na wanajeshi wa serikali, watakabiliana vilivyo na wapiganaji waasi" anasema Bwana Musamali.
Kwa sasa wanajeshi wa MUNUSCO wanaweza tu kutumia silaha zao kujilinda iwapo wamevamiwa lakini hawaruhusiwi kwenda kwenye uwanja wa vita.
Mashariki mwa Jamhuri ya Kidemokrasia ya Congo ni eneo lenye aina nyingi ya madini ikiwa pamoja na almasi na dhahabu.
Pia ni eneo lenye mchanga wenye rotuba na misitu ya nyanda za juu inayozalisha mbao za ujenzi zinazotafutwa sana na wafanyabiashara hata kutoka nje ya DRC.
Kutokana na rasimali hii, eneo hili la mashariki mwa DRC limegeuzwa kuwa uwanja wa vita miongoni mwa makundi ya wapiganaji wa ndani ya DRC na wengine kutoka mataifa jirani.
Inaaminika kwamba kuna zaidi ya makundi 100 ya wanamgambo wenye silaha walio na ngome zao mashariki mwa DRC, lengo lao kuu ni kung'ang'ania madini na raslimali nyingine inayopatikana huko.
Waasi wa kundi la Mai Mai ndio wanaolaumiwa kwa ukosefu wa usalama katika mikoa mingi ya mashariki mwa DRC.
Vile vile kuna makundi ya FDLR kutoka Rwanda, ADF kutoka Uganda na CNRD/FNL kutoka Burundi ambayo ni miongoni mwa magenge haramu yanayochangia kukithiri kwa vita vya kiraia nchini DRC.
Mwingilio wa kisiasa
Kundi la Mai Mai lilianzishwa na kufadhiliwa na wanasiasa wanaotaka mabadiliko ya kisiasa nchini humo.
Inasemakena kwamba wanasiasa wengi nchini DRC wana magenge yao ya kibinafsi ambayo, baada ya kukamilika kwa msimu wa kisiasa, yanajihusisha na uhalifu na uporaji.
Mzozo wa kikabila
Jamhuri ya Kidemokrasia ya Congo imekumbwa na mzozo wa muda mrefu wa kikabila kati ya wafugaji na wakulima.
Uhasama kati ya makundi haya mawili umekithiri kiasi kwamba makabila mengi hayaonani ana kwa ana.
Uasi ndani ya jeshi
Miongoni mwa sababu ambazo zimetajwa kulemaza juhudi za jeshi la taifa zisifaulu katika vita dhidi ya makundi ya waasi ni baadhi ya wanajeshi kuunga mkono kisirisiri wanamgambo.
Uasi wa kichini chini ndani ya jeshi unafanya wanamgambo kufahamu mipango yote ya operesheni dhidi yao na hivyo  kulemaza harakati za vikosi vya taifa vya kutokomeza makundi ya wanamgambo.
Rais Felix Tsishekedi ametoa wito wa ushirikiano wa kikanda na kimatifa katika kupambana na makundi ya wanamgambo mashariki wa DRC.
Hata hivyo, wachunguzi wa mambo wanasema baadhi ya serikali za mataifa jirani zinanufaika kutokana na ukosefu wa usalama na huenda wasiitikie mwito wa kiongozi huyo wa DRC.
Jambo la kusikitisha ni kwamba raia ndio wanaoteseka na kuumia huku sakata ya ukosefu wa usalama ikiendelea kulikumba eneo la mashariki mwa Jamhuri ya Kidemokrasia ya Congo.
©2024 BBC. BBC haihusiki na taarifa za kutoka mitandao ya nje.Soma kuhusu mtazamo wetu wa viambatanishi vya nje.

Title: Article


Title: Congolese army announce killing of Hutu FDLR militia leader [The Morning Call] | Africanews
Please select your experience
Copy/paste the script below
OTHER WIDGETS
Congolese armed forces have killed the leader of an offshoot of a Hutu militia in the restive east of the country, the army announced the killing on Sunday.
Juvenal Musabimana led a splinter group of the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda [FDLR], a group founded by Hutu officials who fled Rwanda after orchestrating 1994 genocide.
His killing is the latest blow to the FDLR, which has been weakened in recent years by arrests of several of its leaders and military pressure from DRC’s armed forces and other militias.


Title: Al menos 8 muertos por un ataque atribuido a rebeldes ugandeses en RD Congo - Diario Libre 
29 de agosto del 2024
Kinshasa, 16 nov (EFE).- Al menos ocho personas de una misma familia murieron en el noreste de la República Democrática del Congo (RDC) por un ataque atribuido a los rebeldes ugandeses de la milicia islamista Fuerzas Democráticas Aliadas (ADF), según informaron este sábado a Efe fuentes militares.
La incursión tuvo lugar durante la noche del viernes al sábado en la zona de Mbau, una localidad situada en la provincia congoleña de Kivu del Norte.
'(Las víctimas) son de la misma familia, me temo. Fueron rebeldes de ADF en desbandada los que cometieron este acto odioso', explicó a Efe en una conversación telefónica el mayor Mak Hazukay, portavoz de las Fuerzas Armadas de la RDC (Fardc).
El balance total de fallecidos como consecuencia del ataque es, según Hazukay, aún provisional, ya que los militares están todavía a la caza de los responsables.
Además, la incursión dejó varios heridos y, según los testigos, una mujer fue tomada como rehén.
Entre las víctimas ya confirmadas hay cuatro hombres y cuatro mujeres.
El incidente ocurrió después de que RDC y Uganda firmaran varios acuerdos de cooperación, entre ellos uno para la neutralización de los rebeldes de la ADF.
Otro de ellos es para el establecimiento de rutas para facilitar el comercio entre los dos países, lo que hará de la seguridad una prioridad aún más importante en esta región fronteriza.
'Esta esquina (el noreste de la RDC) se recuperará y las poblaciones van a poder retomar sus actividades del campo', aseguró Hazukay a Efe.
El noreste de RDC lleva años sumido en un largo conflicto alimentado por las milicias rebeldes y los ataques de los soldados del Ejército regular, todo ello bajo la supervisión de la Misión de Paz de la ONU en el país (Monusco).
Adicionalmente, en la actualidad, combate un grave brote de ébola que ha dejado ya en el área casi 3.300 casos y 2.200 muertos.
Por su parte, las ADF empezaron su campaña violenta en 1996 en el oeste de Uganda como contestación política al régimen del presidente ugandés, Yoweri Museveni.
La presión militar forzó su repliegue a la frontera con la RDC, desde donde efectúan incursiones en Kivu del Norte, sobre todo para saquear y lograr aprovisionamientos.
Su agenda no es muy conocida, más allá de una posible conexión con la organización yihadista Estado Islámico (EI) y un repetido 'modus operandi': atacan, escapan y se ocultan de las operaciones militares gracias a la geografía montañosa de la zona.
A principios de este siglo, los ejércitos ugandés y congoleño casi liquidan esta milicia, pero los rebeldes no desaparecieron por completo, se reorganizaron y empezaron a radicalizarse, hasta llegar a ser el grupo más letal de Kivu del Norte en 2018.
Este año, solo en esta provincia, se han producido más de 300 ataques, en los que han muerto más de 700 personas (una treintena vinculadas a las ADF), según la herramienta de seguimiento Kivu Security Tracker, gestionada por el CRG. EFE
Fehaciente, fidedigno y fácil. Agencia de noticias multimedia en español.
Accede al contenido de Diario Libre año por año desde el 2004.
Descarga nuestras aplicaciones para Android, iOS y sistema Huawei.
© 2023 Diario Libre, todos los derechos reservados. Consulta elAviso Legal. Ponte enContactocon nosotros y conoce más sobreDiario Libre
Utilizamos cookies propias y de terceros para obtener datos estadísticos de la navegación de nuestros usuarios y mejorar nuestros servicios.
				Esto nos permite personalizar el contenido que ofrecemos y mostrar publicidad relacionada a sus intereses. Si continúa navegando, consideramos que acepta su uso.

Title: Al menos 14 muertos por un ataque atribuido a rebeldes ugandeses en RD Congo - Diario Libre 
29 de agosto del 2024
(actualiza el número de víctimas)
Kinshasa, 16 nov (EFE).- Al menos catorce personas murieron en el noreste de la República Democrática del Congo (RDC) por un ataque atribuido a los rebeldes ugandeses de la milicia islamista Fuerzas Democráticas Aliadas (ADF), según informaron este sábado a Efe fuentes militares.
La incursión tuvo lugar durante la noche del viernes al sábado en la zona de Mbau, una localidad situada en la provincia congoleña de Kivu del Norte.
En un principio se confirmaron 8 muertos -cuatro hombres y cuatro mujeres-, pero posteriormente las Fuerzas Armadas de la RDC (Fardc) hallaron de otros seis cadáveres.
Al menos cinco de las víctimas pertenecen a la misma familia.
'Fueron rebeldes de ADF en desbandada los que cometieron este acto odioso', explicó a Efe en conversación telefónica el mayor Mak Hazukay, portavoz de las Fardc.
El balance total de fallecidos es aún provisional, ya que los militares están aún a la caza de los responsables.
Además, la incursión dejó varios heridos y, según los testigos, una mujer fue tomada como rehén.
El incidente ocurrió después de que RDC y Uganda firmaran varios acuerdos de cooperación, entre ellos uno para la neutralización de los rebeldes de la ADF.
Otro de ellos es para el establecimiento de rutas para facilitar el comercio entre los dos países, lo que hará de la seguridad una prioridad aún más importante en esta región fronteriza, donde operan decenas de grupos armados.
'Esta esquina (el noreste de la RDC) se recuperará y las poblaciones van a poder retomar sus actividades del campo', aseguró Hazukay a Efe.
El noreste de RDC lleva años sumido en un largo conflicto alimentado por las milicias rebeldes y los ataques de los soldados del Ejército regular, todo ello bajo la supervisión de la Misión de Paz de la ONU en el país (Monusco).
Adicionalmente, en la actualidad, un grave brote de ébola que ha dejado ya en el área casi 3.300 casos y 2.200 muertos.
Por su parte, las ADF empezaron su campaña violenta en 1996 en el oeste de Uganda como contestación política al régimen del presidente ugandés, Yoweri Museveni.
La presión militar forzó su repliegue a la frontera con la RDC, desde donde efectúan incursiones en Kivu del Norte, sobre todo para saquear y lograr aprovisionamientos.
Su agenda no es muy conocida, más allá de una posible conexión con la organización yihadista Estado Islámico (EI) y un repetido 'modus operandi': atacan, escapan y se ocultan de las operaciones militares gracias a la geografía montañosa de la zona.
A principios de este siglo, los ejércitos ugandés y congoleño casi liquidan esta milicia, pero los rebeldes no desaparecieron por completo, se reorganizaron y empezaron a radicalizarse, hasta llegar a ser el grupo más letal de Kivu del Norte en 2018.
Este año, solo en esta provincia, se han producido más de 300 ataques, en los que han muerto más de 700 personas (una treintena vinculadas a las ADF), según la herramienta de seguimiento Kivu Security Tracker, gestionada por el CRG. EFE
Fehaciente, fidedigno y fácil. Agencia de noticias multimedia en español.
Accede al contenido de Diario Libre año por año desde el 2004.
Descarga nuestras aplicaciones para Android, iOS y sistema Huawei.
© 2023 Diario Libre, todos los derechos reservados. Consulta elAviso Legal. Ponte enContactocon nosotros y conoce más sobreDiario Libre
Utilizamos cookies propias y de terceros para obtener datos estadísticos de la navegación de nuestros usuarios y mejorar nuestros servicios.
				Esto nos permite personalizar el contenido que ofrecemos y mostrar publicidad relacionada a sus intereses. Si continúa navegando, consideramos que acepta su uso.

Title:  ADF rebels kill 5 in DR Congo - New Vision Official
Nov 12, 2019
Suspected Ugandan rebels hacked five civilians to death in eastern DR Congo overnight as an offensive against militia groups neared the end of its second week, local sources said Tuesday.Suspected members of the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) killed five people in the village of Mayi-Moya near the city of Beni, local administrator Donat Kibwana told AFP."People are afraid and are leaving the village despite the army's assurances," Kibwana said.Regional army spokesman Major Mak Hazukay said a "small group" of assailants carried out the attack.The army responded immediately and put them out of action, Hazukay added.The ADF, an Islamist-rooted Ugandan group, is the most notorious militia in a region where armed men have claimed hundreds of lives in the past five years.The army launched an offensive on October 30, vowing to "definitively wipe out" armed groups in the lawless east.But local people complain the thrust of the operation has been around the city of Beni, rather than on hotspots farther north near the Ugandan border.The armed forces, for their part, say they have gained control of "part of Mayangonse, a locality used by the ADF to orchestrate atrocities and murders" against the population of Beni.They also say they have arrested the wife of a Tanzanian national -- a man they describe as the ADF's "guru and chief" -- and "neutralised" Juvenal Musabina, a leader of the FDLR, a Rwandan Hutu rebel group.
Suspected Ugandan rebels hacked five civilians to death in eastern DR Congo overnight as an offensive against militia groups neared the end of its second week, local sources said Tuesday.Suspected members of the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) killed five people in the village of Mayi-Moya near the city of Beni, local administrator Donat Kibwana told AFP."People are afraid and are leaving the village despite the army's assurances," Kibwana said.Regional army spokesman Major Mak Hazukay said a "small group" of assailants carried out the attack.The army responded immediately and put them out of action, Hazukay added.The ADF, an Islamist-rooted Ugandan group, is the most notorious militia in a region where armed men have claimed hundreds of lives in the past five years.The army launched an offensive on October 30, vowing to "definitively wipe out" armed groups in the lawless east.But local people complain the thrust of the operation has been around the city of Beni, rather than on hotspots farther north near the Ugandan border.The armed forces, for their part, say they have gained control of "part of Mayangonse, a locality used by the ADF to orchestrate atrocities and murders" against the population of Beni.They also say they have arrested the wife of a Tanzanian national -- a man they describe as the ADF's "guru and chief" -- and "neutralised" Juvenal Musabina, a leader of the FDLR, a Rwandan Hutu rebel group.

Title: Several civilians killed in eastern DRC by rebel fighters | ISIL/ISIS News | Al Jazeera
Allied Democratic Forces behind the massacre of at least 15 people in eastern DR Congo, local officials say.
Suspected rebel fighters killed at least 15 people overnight in easternDemocratic Republic of the Congo, local officials said on Saturday, in the latest massacre since the country’s army launched a major offensive in the region last month.
DRC’s army initiated its latest campaign, with support fromUnited Nationspeacekeepers, on October 30 to root out fighters from the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) from the dense forests near the Ugandan border.
As was the case during previous military operations against the ADF, its fighters have retaliated by attacking civilians, killing more than 40 since last week, according to the local civil society activists.
Attacks blamed by the government on the ADF have killed hundreds of civilians since 2014.
The attacks on Friday in and around the village of Mbau were carried out with bladed weapons, local officials said. Among the eight victims in Mbau were six members of a single family.
Seven members of a Pygmy ethnic group living in the nearby forest were also killed, officials said. Their bodies were found tied up and their throats had been slit.
“The rebels are attacking civilians in order to spread confusion and panic among the population,” said Donat Kibwana, the regional administrator in the nearby city of Beni.
Mbau residents said it had taken many hours for soldiers based nearby to respond, a common complaint after attacks in the area.
Army officials were not immediately available for comment.
Researchers and rights groups say some DRC soldiers and other rebel groups have also participated in massacres since 2014 for a variety of motives often related to competition for power in lawless zones dominated by dozens of militia groups.
Several of the previous attacks by the ADF, which was founded in Uganda in 1995, have been claimed by theIslamic Stateof Iraq and the Levant (ISILor ISIS) armed group, but the extent of their relationship remains unclear. The ADF is not known to have publicly pledged loyalty to ISIL.









Follow Al Jazeera English:

Title: Sánchez exige a Rusia que retome el acuerdo del grano del Mar Negro y dice que UE apoyará la reconstrucción de Ucrania
Amazon ha inaugurado este martes oficialmente su nuevo centro logístico robotizado en el municipio de Corvera (Murcia) en un acto en el que ha participado el director de Amazon Customer Fulfillment en Francia, Italia y España, Fred Pattje, acompañado por el presidente del Gobierno Regional de Murcia, Fernando López Miras, la consejera de Empresa, Empleo, Universidades y Portavocía, Valle Miguélez, y el alcalde de Murcia, José Antonio Serrano.Con más de 160.000 metros cuadrados, equivalentes a 24 campos de fútbol, este centro logístico equipado con la tecnología Amazon Robotics cuenta con una amplia gama de tecnologías avanzadas destinadas a mantener la seguridad de todos los empleados en el trabajo, al tiempo que permite a Amazon cumplir con sus clientes. El centro creará 1.200 puestos de trabajo fijos durante los próximos tres años, lo que permitirá a Amazon aumentar su capacidad y apoyar mejor a los vendedores independientes de la región.En palabras de Pattje, "estamos encantados de abrir este nuevo centro logístico en Murcia, una región que se ha convertido en un punto estratégico para nuestras operaciones en el país. Nos permitirá responder a la creciente demanda de nuestros clientes, apoyar mejor a los vendedores independientes y seguir creando puestos de trabajo de alta calidad". Amazon terminará 2021 con 15.000 empleados fijos en España."La Región de Murcia ya es referente en muchos ámbitos y ahora lo seremos también con este nuevo centro logístico robotizado de Amazon", ha remarcado por su parte López Miras, para apuntar que "recibir a un gigante del comercio, la comunicación y los servicios como Amazon es una magnífica noticia y si, además, solo con este centro, se van a crear 1200 empleos fijos en los próximos tres años, se trata de una oportunidad que no podíamos dejar escapar"."El municipio de Murcia acoge este centro logístico con enorme satisfacción porque nos proporciona mayor visibilidad, porque el nombre de esta tierra aparece ligado a una de las compañías con mayor proyección internacional y también, cómo no, porque supone un nicho de empleo que ya está beneficiando a muchas familias", ha afirmado por su parte Serrano.TECNOLOGÍA CENTRADA EN EL BIENESTAR DE LOS EMPLEADOSAmazon da prioridad a la seguridad de todos los empleados y busca constantemente formas de mejorar aún más las medidas de seguridad en sus instalaciones, en su objetivo de convertirse en el lugar de trabajo más seguro del mundo. En este sentido, las tecnologías avanzadas de los centros dotados con la tecnología Amazon Robotics, como este, tienen como objetivo apoyar formas de trabajo más seguras para todos en el centro.Algunos ejemplos de estas tecnologías son las unidades móviles de accionamiento y las torres de estanterías amarillas de cuatro lados, que ayudan a los empleados al acercarles los artículos, reduciendo la cantidad de desplazamientos por el centro. El centro logístico de Murcia cuenta con más de 54.000 estanterías y 2.895 unidades móviles, que pueden levantar hasta 1.500 kilogramos.En este centro logístico de Corvera se han instalado paletizadores y despaletizadores robotizados para mejorar la experiencia y el bienestar de los empleados, al eliminar la necesidad de transportar cargas pesadas, mientras que los robots clasificadores se utilizan para automatizar las tareas repetitivas, como la elevación, el apilamiento, el desplazamiento y la colocación de paquetes, lo que permite a los empleados centrarse en el tipo de trabajo que los robots no pueden hacer.La inauguración coincide con el décimo aniversario de Amazon en España, periodo en el que la compañía ha invertido 6.800 millones de euros en el país y ha contribuido a la creación de 89 000 empleos indirectos. Amazon se ha comprometido a alcanzar los 25.000 puestos de trabajo fijos en España y a formar a 50.000 pymes y emprendedores en la venta online antes de que finalice el año 2025. Además de estos objetivos, la compañía se ha comprometido globalmente a operar al 100% con energías renovables para 2030, aunque está en camino de conseguirlo en 2025.El presidente del Gobierno regional, Fernando López Miras, ha celebrado los más de 1.200 empleos fijos que creará el nuevo centro logístico robotizado de Amazon durante los próximos tres años, y destacó "la gran atracción de inversiones que está consiguiendo la Región, con una Unidad de Aceleración de Inversiones del Instituto de Fomento que está plenamente consolidada y que agiliza la captación de proyectos tan importantes como éste".En el acto de inauguración de la planta en Corvera (Murcia), López Miras ha afirmado que esta iniciativa y la generación de puestos de trabajo aparejada "representan una oportunidad que no podíamos dejar escapar". El centro será utilizado por la multinacional para dar soporte a sus operaciones en España y en toda Europa, y supone la cuarta instalación de este tipo que Amazon implanta en nuestro país, junto a las dos de Barcelona y una en Sevilla.De cara a seguir facilitando el despliegue de estas inversiones, López Miras ha recordado que "desde el Gobierno regional vamos a poner en marcha una Ley que dinamice aún más la inversión privada, y que incremente este poder de atracción y de desarrollo de proyectos estratégicos. Será la Ley de Eficiencia Pública y Dinamización de la Inversión, que resultará fundamental para superar la crisis económica y social a la que nos abocado la pandemia".El responsable autonómico agradeció a los representantes de Amazon "que escojan la Región de Murcia" y afirmó que es "una apuesta sobre seguro, por nuestra libertad económica, y porque apoyamos las iniciativas empresariales reduciendo impuestos y eliminando burocracia".Se trata del segundo centro de Amazon en la Región, ya que se suma a la estación logística puesta en marcha en octubre de 2020 y que se encuentra a apenas 200 metros de distancia, también en Corvera. Sólo en la Región de Murcia, más de 200 pymes comercializan sus bienes y servicios a través de Amazon, con ventas por exportación de más de 10 millones de euros en 2019.UN EDIFICIO SOSTENIBLEComo parte del compromiso de Amazon de ser neutro en emisiones de carbono para 2040, el edificio se pone en marcha con energía eléctrica al 100%, incluidos sus sistemas de calefacción y agua caliente, evitando el uso de combustibles fósiles (gas natural) y con la eficiencia energética como máxima prioridad. La calefacción, la ventilación y el aire acondicionado están controlados por un sistema de gestión de edificios (BMS) que garantiza un entorno de trabajo confortable para los empleados, al tiempo que reduce el consumo innecesario de energía.La iluminación LED se ajusta en función de la disponibilidad de luz natural y de la ocupación del edificio, y la calidad del aire interior se controla constantemente. El edificio estará equipado con paneles solares a lo largo de todo el tejado y los empleados tendrán acceso a puntos de carga de vehículos eléctricos y aparcamiento de bicicletas.Amazon está en camino de abastecer sus operaciones con energía 100% renovable para 2025, alcanzando el 65% en 2020, y es ahora el mayor comprador corporativo de energía renovable en Europa y el mundo.


Menuda semana tras el breve descanso. Precios del petróleo, cifras de inflación, titulares fiscales y debates sobre la reunión del BCE de la próxima semana. Nos visitaron fantasmas del pasado, del presente y, potencialmente, del futuro próximo.
El consejero delegado de International Airlines Group (IAG), Luis Gallego, destacó este viernes “el buen funcionamiento” de los aeropuertos españoles en comparación con otros de Europa, entre los que citó los de Londres, Ámsterdam y Frankfurt, según dijo una conferencia con periodistas en relación con los resultados del ‘holding’ de Iberia y Vueling en el primer semestre.
Sugarbabe Deluxe es una plataforma de citas en línea de alto nivel que posee un carácter moderno y exclusivo, y que ofrece la oportunidad de hacer realidad el sueño de muchas personas mediante una gestión seria, discreta y cumpliendo todas las expectativas, tanto si se está buscando una relación de pareja a largo plazo, como si lo que se quiere es una aventura envuelta de mucha pasión y diversión para romper la rutina y evadirse.


Title: Rais wa Jamhuri ya Kidemokrasi ya Kongo, Felix Tshisekedi na wa Uganda Yoweri Museveni waweka mifumo madhubuti ya ushirikiano - BBC News Swahili
Chanzo cha picha,Wizara ya mambo ya nje Uganda
Rais wa  Jamhuri ya Kidemokrasi ya Kongo, Felix Tshisekedi amekuwa katika ziara ya siku mbili nchini Uganda kwa ajili ya kuhudhulia mkutano wa kibiashara wa mwaka 2019.
Wizara ya mambo ya nje nchini Uganda imetoa maelezo kuwa wakuu wa mataifa hayo mawili walikutana ili kukamilisha mkakati wa kushirikiana katika masuala ya afya, amani na usalama, nishani ,biashara na uwekezaji pamoja na masuala mengine ya maendeleo.
Katika suala la usalama na amani ambayo ni changamoto kubwa kwa mataifa hayo mawili, viongozi hao wameazimia kutafuta suluhu ya kuyangamiza makundi ya wapiganaji na  waasi mashariki mwa Kongo.
Marais hao wanamini kuwa hiyo ndiyo itakuwa hatua ya kwanza kuleta maendeleo ya viwanda, biashara na uwekezaji eneo hilo.
Viongozi hao wametoa mwito kwa wenzao katika kanda ya maziwa makuu kuunga mkono juhudi zao.
Baada ya kukutana kwa siku nne, ujumbe wa DRC uliojumuisha maafisa wa ngazi za juu pamoja na wawakilishi 110 wa wafanyabiashara, waliorodhesha na wenzao wa Uganda masuala ambayo waliyataka viongozi wayazingatia ili kuimarisha biashara kati ya nchi hizo mbili.
Masuala mawili yaliyosisitizwa ni usalama na miundobinu ya barabara.
Chanzo cha picha,Wizara ya mambo ya nje Uganda
Walipopokea masuala hayo, marais Museveni na Tshishekedi waliahidi kuanzisha operesheni kabambe kuangamiza makundi ya wapiganaji Mashariki mwa Congo.
Hii wameeleza viongozi hao itatoa fursa kwa wafanyabiashara kutoka pande zote mbili kuendesha shughuli zao na kwa hiyo kuchangia kwa amani, usalama na uthabiti eneo hilo.
Kadhalika Rais wa Congo amefichua azimio lake la kuligeuza eneo la mashariki mwa nchi yake kuwa ndicho kitovu cha viwanda.
Amebaini maeneo sita ambayo yanalengwa ili kulifanikisha hilo na pia katika biashara na uwekezaji sambamba na kujenga barabara za moja kwa moja kutoka Uganda badala ya kutegemea tu zile zinazopitia Rwanda.
Kulingana na takwimu za serikali,  Uganda iliuza bidhaa za thamani ya dola milioni 538  kwa nchi ya Congo huku nchi hiyo yenye utajiri mkubwa wa madini na mbao iliuzia Uganda dola milioni 117.
Baadhi ya wafanyabiashara wametaja ushuru, michakato ya uhamiaji ikiwemo ada za Viza za usafiri na pia barabara kuwa changamoto zinazostahili kupewa kipaumbele ili kuboresha biashara kati ya Uganda na DRC.
Biashara ambazo zinatarajiwa kufanywa na mataifa hayo mawili zinakadiriwa kuwa milioni 532 kwa mujibu wa ofisi ya taifa ya takwimu Uganda.
Waziri wa mambo ya nje wa Uganda anasema kuwa ushirikiano huo ni mzuri kwa kuwa unazipa nchi hizo mbili wigo mkubwa wa kukua kimaendeleo na kufanya kazi pamoja.
Ingawa maeneo karibu yote ya DRC yamekuwa yakikumbwa na changamoto za usalama kama vita ama kushambuliwa na waasi mara kwa mara, eneo la mashariki ya nchi hiyo ndiyo lililoathirika zaidi.
Akiongea na BBC siku chache kabla ya kuondoka madarakani mwishoni mwa maka 2018, rais mataafu wa nchi hiyo, Joseph Kabila amesema katika mambo ambayo angekuwa na muda zaidi kuyashughulikia ni kurudisha amani kwa taifa hilo.
Mashariki mwa DRC kuna makundi ya kijeshi ya waasi na kikabila mengi kupindukia.
Chanzo cha picha,Getty Images
Baadhi ya makundi yanaundwa na raia wa nchi hiyo, lakini kuna makundi mengine makubwa ambayo yanafadhiliwa ama kupambana za serikali za nchi jirani.
Baadhi ya makundi ya waasi yanayotokea nchi jirani ni FDLR ambalo lilitekeleza mauaji ya kimbari nchini Rwanda mwaka 1994 na wapiganaji wake kukimbilia DRC.
Waasi wa ADF wanatokea nchini Uganda.
Makundi hayo ya waasi yanatumia misitu mizito iliyopo kwenye eneo hilo kujificha na kuendesha shughuli zao huku wakitangaza nia ya kushambulia nchi zao walizozikimbia.
Uganda na Rwanda zimeshavamia DRC mara mbili kwa lengo la kusambaratisha makundi hayo na vita hivyo kupelekea mamilioni ya watu kufariki.
Chanzo cha picha,Getty Images
Eneo hilo la Mashariki ya DRC pia linakabiliwa na ugonjwa hatari wa Ebola ambapo moja ya sababu za kushindikana kushughulikiwa kikamilifu ni uwepo wa makundi ya waasi hao.
Mwezi Machi mwaka huu shirika la habari la kimataifa la Reuters liliripoti kuwa, kundi la waasi la Mai Mai lilishambulia kambi ya matibabu ya Ebola na kuua polisi na kufurusha wagonjwa na wahudumu wote wa afya.
Makundi hayo pia yamekuwa pia yakishutumiwa kwa ubakaji wa wanawake katika maeneo wanayoyashambulia, na kufanya ubakaji kuwa ni moja ya matatizo makubwa yanayolikumba eneo hilo.
Uwepo wa makundi hayo ya waasi yamefanya Umoja wa Mataifa kupeleka kikosi maalumu (MONUSCO) kulinda amani. Hata hivyo, wachambuzi wengi wamekuwa wakilaumu vikosi hivyo kwa kushindwa kutekeleza wajibu wake ipasavyo.
©2024 BBC. BBC haihusiki na taarifa za kutoka mitandao ya nje.Soma kuhusu mtazamo wetu wa viambatanishi vya nje.

Title: ACLED Regional Overview – Africa (10 – 16 November 2019) - Ethiopia | ReliefWeb
Ethiopia+ 8 more
This week, Africa experienced a significantly high number of attacks on a whole, and the violence was distributed across the continent including the typical hot spots of Somalia, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), and Nigeria, but also the continued troubles in Ethiopia and Burundi. Over 600 people are estimated and reported to have died in political violence across the continent last week.
In Ethiopia, political violence continued, largely drawn on ethnic lines. At least three university students were murdered during clashes in Woldia University in Amhara and in Dembi Dollo University in Oromia. Both communities are pitted against each other, as the Oromo seek better accommodation as the largest group in the state, and in continued fallout from the attempted coup by Amhara Nationalists earlier this year.
In Nigeria, tensions between the APC and PDP increased this week ahead of governorship elections in Kogi and Bayela states. In Nembe town, militias of both parties clashed at a PDP rally resulting in one death and several wounded supporters. On election day, six people were killed at polling units in Lokoja, Opolo and Abocho. Several other polling units reported attacks on journalists and voters.
Elsewhere, in Malam Fatori, Nigerian military forces and Boko Haram-IS battled for two days.
In Burundi, RED-TABARA and FOREBU coalition continue to clash with state forces and Imbonerakure in the northwest of the country. Violence against CNL supporters by CNDD-FDD and clashes between the two parties continues, highlighted by the rape and killing of a CNL party leader who led the women’s political wing. Lesotho also experienced the killing of a political party leader when the head of the Democratic Congress was killed in her home.
In the Central African Republic (CAR), several raids were carried out by rebel groups against aid facilities, in ongoing violence and looting against aid workers.
In Somalia, on 12 November, Al Shabaab killed Abdulle Hassan Haji, the head of Cadayaga village and his deputy (Ali Qoje Hassan) in Cadaya. There has been a sharp increase of attacks by Al Shabaab against the Somali military, government officials, AMISOM and civilians; this continues as a major battle took place in Cadadle between Al Shabab and AMISOM over the weekend. There are growing reports about a new armed, organized group called Awale/Awdal that has been active in the SELAL regions: they demand that all foreigners leave Somaliland.
In South Sudan, several targeted attacks and clashes occurred this week, including a cattle raid in the disputed Western Lakes state (killing three), and a clash between an NSS officer and police in the disputed Gok state (which killed two police). In Sudan, numerous instances of violence against farmers occurring in several parts of North Darfur state, with much of the violence coming from armed pastoralists. This represents a considerable increase in such events in the area.
In Rwanda and the DRC, on 9 November, Rwandan FDLR leader Musabimana Juvenal was killed in North Kivu in the DRC; the second major Rwandan rebel leader to be killed in the DRC over the past two months. The attack may result in a heightened risk of retaliation against the Rwandan army or civilians by FDLR or affiliates. In Guinea, demonstrations erupted in several cities throughout the country against a possible revision of Guinean constitution. There were several attacks by Boko Haram in the Kolofata region of Cameroon, including on attack targeting a military base. Assailants reportedly took away armaments.
Sudan
DR Congo+ 1 more
DR Congo+ 3 more
South Sudan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: The Citizen | The Citizen
President Samia Suluhu Hassan is set to preside over the opening of a significant ministerial conference, which will convene over 70 ministers from African, Caribbean, and Pacific (OACPS) member...
The bill, includes provisions for the TAA to have its own firefighting personnel instead of relying on the Fire and Rescue Force.
For Tanzania to fully realise the benefits of migration, it must embrace migration policy not as a peripheral concern but as a core component of its national development strategy
Ndugulile’s five-year term, which will begin in February 2025 during the 156th session of the WHO Executive Board in Geneva, will tackle numerous health challenges across the continent
Six of the train cars went off the tracks, resulting in injuries to 70 people.
The nominations, revealed today, feature major contenders including Diamond Platnumz, AliKiba, Marioo, Harmonize, and Jay Melody, all vying for the Best Male Artist award in the third TMA since...
The bill, includes provisions for the TAA to have its own firefighting personnel instead of relying on the Fire and Rescue Force.
Chief Secretary of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar, Zena Said says it is necessary to consider the needs of the sector and to prepare young people to meet these needs
Events from far and wide seemed to have converged to bring Raila Odinga good fortune.
The association argues that VAT waivers would enhance public access to high-quality baked goods.
Nearly half of Namibia's population is expected to experience high levels of food insecurity in the coming months.
Zelenskiy said he hoped to go to the United States in September to attend the UN General Assembly in New York and that he was preparing to meet Biden.
Faraja ya Tasnia will serve as a platform to acknowledge these artists' profound impact on the entertainment industry and the lives they touched.
Although Marioo’s introduction was succinct, it set the stage for something significant brewing within his camp.
Yanga could have scored more than four goals in the match, but several clear scoring opportunities were wasted.
Nation Media Group © 2024

Title: UPDF deploys special force in Rwenzori region - New Vision Official
Nov 13, 2019
SECURITYThe Uganda People's Defence Forces (UPDF) has deployed a special force in the Rwenzori region.According to the Chief of Defence Forces (CDF), Gen. David Muhoozi, the fully-fledged division will have its headquarters at Muhooti Barracks in Kabarole district.Dubbed as the mountain division, Muhoozi said, its reach will stretch from Katunguru in Kasese district, Mubende and Kyegegwa districts.A statement issued by UPDF on Wednesday noted that the newly deployed mountain division will help the region combat threats from pockets of terror groups such as the Allied Democratic Force (ADF)."The region has been under the threat of ADF now located in Eastern DRC," UPDF officials noted.The division will be commanded by Brig. Moses Kwikiriza, the former commander of the third infantry division.Speaking to the commanders, Muhoozi said the President Yoweri Museveni, who is also the Commander-in-Chief, directed the UPDF to form the mountain division to handle security issues in the region."ADF and other negative forces still destabilise the Eastern part of DRC and this creates greater threat to our country. The formation of this division was long overdue," Muhoozi said.
SECURITY
The Uganda People's Defence Forces (UPDF) has deployed a special force in the Rwenzori region.
According to the Chief of Defence Forces (CDF), Gen. David Muhoozi, the fully-fledged division will have its headquarters at Muhooti Barracks in Kabarole district.
Dubbed as the mountain division, Muhoozi said, its reach will stretch from Katunguru in Kasese district, Mubende and Kyegegwa districts.
A statement issued by UPDF on Wednesday noted that the newly deployed mountain division will help the region combat threats from pockets of terror groups such as the Allied Democratic Force (ADF).
"The region has been under the threat of ADF now located in Eastern DRC," UPDF officials noted.
The division will be commanded by Brig. Moses Kwikiriza, the former commander of the third infantry division.
Speaking to the commanders, Muhoozi said the President Yoweri Museveni, who is also the Commander-in-Chief, directed the UPDF to form the mountain division to handle security issues in the region.
"ADF and other negative forces still destabilise the Eastern part of DRC and this creates greater threat to our country. The formation of this division was long overdue," Muhoozi said.

Title: 
Situation in Beni, DRC "disturbing," says UN envoy - Xinhua | English.news.cn

UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 26 (Xinhua) -- The UN envoy for the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) said Tuesday that the situation in the northeastern city of Beni is "disturbing," amid armed attacks and protests against her mission's failure to mitigate them.
"Since the beginning of this month, we have about 14 attacks and 80 people killed," Leila Zerrougui, the special representative and head of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in the DRC (MONUSCO), told the press via video link.
She said MONUSCO has a "responsibility to protect" but "it's not easy to protect every person," adding she had held meetings with the DRC president and leaders of the national security council to "make sure that we protect civilians."
According to media reports, at least six people have been killed during protests against MONUSCO's failures to stop deadly attacks by the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) militia, which has plagued the area for years.
Zerrougui said the protesters had attacked and set fire to a UN compound and the city town hall, noting that there is manipulation against the DRC government and MONUSCO.
"We are the scapegoat," she said. "We have no other option but to do our work ... and try to mitigate the attacks ... against the civilian population."
In late October, the DRC armed forces announced they had launched an operation to eradicate armed groups in eastern DRC.
Since then, scores of civilians have been killed in what appeared to be a warning by the ADF not to collaborate with the authorities.
After eight more civilians were killed in Beni on Sunday, crowds started to protest the failures to quell the ADF.
Xinhua Headlines: China-built modern power plant puts BiH town on the map
S. African navy hosts Russia, China for maritime exercise
E China's old revolutionary base connected to high-speed rail
U.S. companies show continued interest in China's import expo
Smart cleaning robot seen on street in Hohhot, China's Inner Mongolia
International exhibition on modern railways held in Beijing
Integrated development of cultural, tourism industry in north China's Hebei
World's only captive brown giant panda adopted

Title: Mnangagwa Denounces Killing Of Civilians – ZimEye



ZimEye
Emmerson Mnangagwa, in his capacity as the chairman of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) Organ on Politics, Defence and Security Cooperation has denounced attacks on civilians in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) by Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) a rebel group in Uganda and DRC.
Reports suggest that the attacks resulted in the death of about 80 civilians thereby triggering the violent demonstrations against United Nations Organisation Stabilisation Mission in the DRC (MONUSCO) peacekeepers.
In a statement, Mnangagwa expressed condolences to the government and the People of DRC, as well as the bereaved families. Part of the statement reads:
The attacks in Beni have resulted in the death of approximately 80 people, as well as the injury and displacement of many people.
SADC is resolute in voicing its condemnation of the attacks that the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) continue to perpetrate on the civilian population in the DRC.
These remarks have attracted criticism from Zimbabwean observers who said that Mnangagwa was “hypocritical” since he “unleashed a reign of terror” on civilians back home.Analysts also observed that the democratic space in Zimbabwe has been diminishing lately.Credit:NewsDay

ZimEye is a spread out media-network market of professionals in various fields that include arts & journalism as practiced by many of its subscribers scattered across the globe. The objective is to expose at close range facts, myths, commentaries, and news-centric developments on Zimbabwe and Africa at large.
© Copyright 2024 – ZimEye.net | ZimEye.org | ZimEye.com –Privacy Policy

Title: Portada - Noticias Prensa Latina
Prensa Latina, La Agencia
Servicios
Contacto
jueves 29 de agosto de 2024 | 11:35
jueves 29 de agosto de 2024 | 11:41
jueves 29 de agosto de 2024 | 11:01
August 28, 2024 at 20:31 (GMT +00:00)
August 13, 2024 at 10:08 (GMT +00:00)
August 6, 2024 at 08:26 (GMT +00:00)
July 30, 2024 at 07:49 (GMT +00:00)
exclusivos - August 29, 2024 at 13:05 (GMT +00:00)
exclusivos - August 29, 2024 at 01:00 (GMT +00:00)
exclusivos - August 28, 2024 at 01:24 (GMT +00:00)
August 29, 2024 at 07:53
August 29, 2024 at 07:46
August 29, 2024 at 07:40
August 29, 2024 at 07:35
© 2016-2024 Agencia Informativa Latinoamericana S.A.
Radio – Televisión – Publicaciones impresas y digitales.Todos los derechos reservados.
Calle E No.454 esquina a 19, Vedado, La Habana, Cuba.Teléf: (+53) 7 838 3496, (+53) 7 838 3497Prensa Latina © 2023 .
Sitio diseñado y desarrollado por el Departamento de Desarrollo de la Dirección Técnica de Prensa Latina.

Title: Mueren 21 personas en un ataque de rebeldes ugandeses en noreste de RD Congo - Diario Libre 
29 de agosto del 2024
Kinshasa, 20 nov (EFE).- Al menos 21 personas murieron, incluidos dos menores, durante una incursión múltiple en el territorio de Beni, noreste de la República Democrática del Congo (RDC), perpetrada por presuntos rebeldes ugandeses de la milicia islamista Fuerzas Democráticas Aliadas (ADF).
Los ataques, según confirmó a Efe este miércoles el presidente de la sociedad civil de Beni, tuvieron lugar en la noche de ayer tanto en la localidad de Oicha como en la de Boikene.
'Ayer por la noche, alrededor de las siete de la tarde, militantes de las ADF irrumpieron en Boikene, donde mataron a siete civiles, mientras que en Oisha fueron encontrados otros catorce cuerpos esta mañana', detalló Angelus Kavuthirwaki por teléfono.
'Algunas personas mencionan a dos soldados borrachos de las Fuerzas Armadas congoleñas (Fardc) que comenzaron a disparar al aire', añade el representante de la sociedad civil, 'pero curiosamente, después de unos 45 minutos, se oyeron fuertes disparos y esta mañana nos enteramos de los siete muertos'.
El portavoz de las Fardc, Mak Hazukay, por su parte, confirmó a Efe la incursión nocturna de miembros de las ADF, a los que aseguran haber expulsado de varias de sus bases.
'Se encuentran en desbandada y huyendo de (zonas próximas a) la población civil ya que la mayoría de sus bases han sido tomadas', describió el comandante Hazukay sin dar una cifra concreta.
Ante este último brote de violencia, numerosos jóvenes han tomado las calles, cansados de los repetidos ataques que grupos rebeldes cometen en la provincia nororiental de Kivu del Norte, sobre todo, en el territorio de Beni, fronterizo con Uganda.
A finales de octubre, el Ejército congoleño lanzó una nueva ofensiva contra las ADF y otros grupos rebeldes, fortalecidos pese a la presencia de la Misión de Paz de la ONU en el país (Monusco). EFE
Fehaciente, fidedigno y fácil. Agencia de noticias multimedia en español.
Accede al contenido de Diario Libre año por año desde el 2004.
Descarga nuestras aplicaciones para Android, iOS y sistema Huawei.
© 2023 Diario Libre, todos los derechos reservados. Consulta elAviso Legal. Ponte enContactocon nosotros y conoce más sobreDiario Libre
Utilizamos cookies propias y de terceros para obtener datos estadísticos de la navegación de nuestros usuarios y mejorar nuestros servicios.
				Esto nos permite personalizar el contenido que ofrecemos y mostrar publicidad relacionada a sus intereses. Si continúa navegando, consideramos que acepta su uso.

Title: The surrender of Bosco Ntaganda | Features | Al Jazeera
There are a plethora of unanswered questions over why the former general would have chosen to hand himself in.
The US embassy in the Rwandan capital, Kigali, sits like a fortress in the centre of the city: its mirrored windows and square concrete structure, is similar in architecture to other American embassies in Africa.
As we drove into the visitor’s entrance, I wondered what the staff especially the Rwandans who work here, must have thought when the tall, imposing figure, of Bosco Ntaganda walked up to the gate on Monday morning.
For several years, the US has called for Ntaganda’s arrest and transfer to the International Criminal Court (ICC).
It even added his name to its “War Crimes Rewards Programme”, where people are rewarded for giving information, which then leads to the arrest of those wanted by the ICC.
One man in Kigali, told me with a wry smile on his face, that he believed the driver who dropped Ntaganda at the Embassy “should get the bounty”.
Tight control
I have travelled from the border with Democratic Republic of Congo to Kigali many times.
This is a small, beautiful country, that reminds you of Switzerland, but it is also a very tightly controlled state, with several police checkpoints along the way.
It would have been extremely difficult for Ntaganda to reach Kigali, without the knowledge of the Rwandan authorities.
There are also unanswered questions, like why would the former general hand himself over.
“The Rwandan government probably either forced him to hand himself over,” says Jason Stearns from the Rift Valley Institute. “Or he was so afraid of what would happen if they arrested him, (or [Sultani] Makenga  got a hold of him) he made a run for the embassy.”
The surrender of Ntaganda, probably has less to do with justice, and more about the bloody battles we have seen in recent weeks for control of M23 rebel group based in eastern DR Congo.
Ntaganda’s main rival is General Sultani Makenga, a man who is on a UN sanctions list, and the military head of the rebel group.
The fighting led to the escape of several hundred of Ntaganda’s men into Rwanda. They were disarmed by the Rwandan military, and placed in a camp near the border at a place called Mudende. The camp is more like a former school, with low walls, a courtyard, and a few outbuildings.
We weren’t allowed to film or speak to the former combattants, but we were close enough to have eye contact with them.
Some of the fighters were still in uniform, there were campfires burning, and one jovial group, was dancing to music, which was playing out from a portable radio.
One of the soldiers asked me for a cigarette, however, armed Rwandan soldiers, some with red berets, who surround the compound, wouldn’t let us approach him. It is unclear, what will happen to these men now.
Will justice bring peace?
Although Rwanda is not a signatory to the Rome Statute, it is clear that there is too much international pressure on the county, and that they will have to agree to a swift and safe passage for Ntaganda to the Hague.
However, it is too optimistic to say that justice will bring peace any time soon. There are currently peace talks in the Ugandan capital, Kampala, between the Congolese government and M23.
But there is more chance of a breakthrough now, as one of Makenga’s conditions is his men being allowed back into the national army. And this is more likely now since Ntaganda is out of the way.
However, the Congolese government has less incentive to abide by the recently signed Framework Agreement. The agreement includes a pledge from the Congolese government to reform state institutions like the police and army.
But there are also other alleged war criminals still on the run in eastern DR Congo.
Mark Lattimer, Director of Minority rights group, an international organisation that raises awareness of issues relating to minorities, says that Ntaganda “is not the only one responsible for the mass killing, rape and recruitment of child soldiers that continue in DRC today”.
Rights body Amnesty International is calling on the Congolese authorities to apprehend Sylvestre Mudacumura, the military commander of another rebel group operating in the area known as FDLR, or the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda. “So that he too is surrendered to the ICC.”
The demise of Ntaganda brings some closure for his victims and their families, however, DR Congo is only a small step closer to peace.









Follow Al Jazeera English:

Title: No sólo las cajas hacían cosas raras
Al menos 21 personas han muerto y varios niños han sido secuestrados en dos ataques achacados a la milicia Fuerzas Democráticas Aliadas (ADF) en la provincia de Kivu Norte, en el este de República Democrática del Congo (RDC).Fuentes de la sociedad civil  y las fuerzas de seguridad citadas por la emisora local Radio Okapi han indicado que un total de siete muertos han muerto en la localidad de Beni, mientras que otras catorce han sido asesinadas en la aldea de Mavete, en la comuna rural de Oicha.El ataque en Beni, el primero que ejecutan las ADF en la ciudad desde hace más de un año, ha provocado manifestaciones para reclamar al Ejército y la Misión de Naciones Unidas en RDC (MONUSCO) que garanticen la seguridad de la población.Los ataques fueron ejecutados horas después de que las Fuerzas Armadas congoleñas anunciaran la toma del "bastión más importante" de las ADF en el territorio de Beni, en el marco de una ofensiva contra el grupo lanzada el 1 de noviembre.La milicia de las ADF actúa en RDC desde la década de los noventa y, a pesar de las reiteradas ofensivas lanzadas contra ella, sigue generando violencia en la zona. Está considerado uno de los grupos armados más peligrosos de las varias decenas que operan en el país africano.Recientemente han surgido informaciones en torno a posibles contactos entre las ADF y el grupo yihadista Estado Islámico, especialmente después de que este grupo reclamara en abril la autoría del que sería su primer ataque en el país africano, así como la formación de una nueva rama en el continente, llamada Provincia de África Central.Varios grupos armados controlan partes del este de RDC pese a que la guerra de 1998-2003 concluyera formalmente. El conflicto causó millones de muertos, la mayoría víctimas del hambre y las enfermedades.La violencia armada ha complicado la lucha contra el brote de ébola que se declaró en el este del país --con Kivu Norte como uno de los epicentros-- el año pasado. Desde entonces se han registrado ataques contra instalaciones médicas y personal sanitario.
Al menos 21 personas han muerto y varios niños han sido secuestrados en dos ataques achacados a la milicia Fuerzas Democráticas Aliadas (ADF) en la provincia de Kivu Norte, en el este de República Democrática del Congo (RDC).
Fuentes de la sociedad civil  y las fuerzas de seguridad citadas por la emisora local Radio Okapi han indicado que un total de siete muertos han muerto en la localidad de Beni, mientras que otras catorce han sido asesinadas en la aldea de Mavete, en la comuna rural de Oicha.
El ataque en Beni, el primero que ejecutan las ADF en la ciudad desde hace más de un año, ha provocado manifestaciones para reclamar al Ejército y la Misión de Naciones Unidas en RDC (MONUSCO) que garanticen la seguridad de la población.
Los ataques fueron ejecutados horas después de que las Fuerzas Armadas congoleñas anunciaran la toma del "bastión más importante" de las ADF en el territorio de Beni, en el marco de una ofensiva contra el grupo lanzada el 1 de noviembre.
La milicia de las ADF actúa en RDC desde la década de los noventa y, a pesar de las reiteradas ofensivas lanzadas contra ella, sigue generando violencia en la zona. Está considerado uno de los grupos armados más peligrosos de las varias decenas que operan en el país africano.
Recientemente han surgido informaciones en torno a posibles contactos entre las ADF y el grupo yihadista Estado Islámico, especialmente después de que este grupo reclamara en abril la autoría del que sería su primer ataque en el país africano, así como la formación de una nueva rama en el continente, llamada Provincia de África Central.
Varios grupos armados controlan partes del este de RDC pese a que la guerra de 1998-2003 concluyera formalmente. El conflicto causó millones de muertos, la mayoría víctimas del hambre y las enfermedades.
La violencia armada ha complicado la lucha contra el brote de ébola que se declaró en el este del país --con Kivu Norte como uno de los epicentros-- el año pasado. Desde entonces se han registrado ataques contra instalaciones médicas y personal sanitario.

Al menos 21 personas han muerto y varios niños han sido secuestrados en dos ataques achacados a la milicia Fuerzas Democráticas Aliadas (ADF) en la provincia de Kivu Norte, en el este de República Democrática del Congo (RDC).
Fuentes de la sociedad civil  y las fuerzas de seguridad citadas por la emisora local Radio Okapi han indicado que un total de siete muertos han muerto en la localidad de Beni, mientras que otras catorce han sido asesinadas en la aldea de Mavete, en la comuna rural de Oicha.
El ataque en Beni, el primero que ejecutan las ADF en la ciudad desde hace más de un año, ha provocado manifestaciones para reclamar al Ejército y la Misión de Naciones Unidas en RDC (MONUSCO) que garanticen la seguridad de la población.
Los ataques fueron ejecutados horas después de que las Fuerzas Armadas congoleñas anunciaran la toma del "bastión más importante" de las ADF en el territorio de Beni, en el marco de una ofensiva contra el grupo lanzada el 1 de noviembre.
La milicia de las ADF actúa en RDC desde la década de los noventa y, a pesar de las reiteradas ofensivas lanzadas contra ella, sigue generando violencia en la zona. Está considerado uno de los grupos armados más peligrosos de las varias decenas que operan en el país africano.
Recientemente han surgido informaciones en torno a posibles contactos entre las ADF y el grupo yihadista Estado Islámico, especialmente después de que este grupo reclamara en abril la autoría del que sería su primer ataque en el país africano, así como la formación de una nueva rama en el continente, llamada Provincia de África Central.
Varios grupos armados controlan partes del este de RDC pese a que la guerra de 1998-2003 concluyera formalmente. El conflicto causó millones de muertos, la mayoría víctimas del hambre y las enfermedades.
La violencia armada ha complicado la lucha contra el brote de ébola que se declaró en el este del país --con Kivu Norte como uno de los epicentros-- el año pasado. Desde entonces se han registrado ataques contra instalaciones médicas y personal sanitario.

Menuda semana tras el breve descanso. Precios del petróleo, cifras de inflación, titulares fiscales y debates sobre la reunión del BCE de la próxima semana. Nos visitaron fantasmas del pasado, del presente y, potencialmente, del futuro próximo.
El consejero delegado de International Airlines Group (IAG), Luis Gallego, destacó este viernes “el buen funcionamiento” de los aeropuertos españoles en comparación con otros de Europa, entre los que citó los de Londres, Ámsterdam y Frankfurt, según dijo una conferencia con periodistas en relación con los resultados del ‘holding’ de Iberia y Vueling en el primer semestre.
Sugarbabe Deluxe es una plataforma de citas en línea de alto nivel que posee un carácter moderno y exclusivo, y que ofrece la oportunidad de hacer realidad el sueño de muchas personas mediante una gestión seria, discreta y cumpliendo todas las expectativas, tanto si se está buscando una relación de pareja a largo plazo, como si lo que se quiere es una aventura envuelta de mucha pasión y diversión para romper la rutina y evadirse.


Title: Home | Monitor
Some Ugandan career diplomats believe that the majority of the political appointees are unfit and unsuitable to represent the country abroad
The judge's order is intended to facilitate the defense team's cross-examination of forensic scientist Andrew Kizimula Mubiru, scheduled to begin on September 10
More than half of Uganda’s population, estimated at 45.9 million, is under the age of 35, according to preliminary results of the latest national population and housing census conducted in May...
The nine-time champions have had to endure a season dominated by a series of problems.
Cheptegei expressed his gratitude, saying he is excited about building partnerships with supportive organisations
Concentrating government offices and activities in Kampala has created a property asset bubble in the capital that is at odds with how congested and unliveable the city has become
Much as the rear seats were designed to accommodate three passengers, they can comfortably take on four passengers and each will have enough legroom, even for long distances
Several subscribers have cancelled their pay TV subscriptions in favour of streaming services that provide on-demand content, flexible viewing options, and budget-friendly subscription plans.
When he met Aline Kalisa, Rogers Murungi was going through a divorce with the mother of his two children
Like someone had opened the floodgates, other symptoms followed on the heels of her snapping knees. The worst were the hot flashes
Manchester United forward Alejandro Garnacho has the potential to become a world class player, manager Erik ten Hag has said
Nation Media Group © 2024
It's free!
Access the best of Monitor's Independent Journalism