Title: DRC: Wakuu wa usalama Kanda ya Maziwa Makuu kukabiliana na ugaidi - BBC News Swahili
Wakuu wa vyombo vya usalama katika kanda ya Maziwa Makuu wanakutana nchini Uganda kupanga mikakati ya kukabiliana na tishio la kundi la Islamic State ambalo linasemekana limeanza kuendesha harakati zake katika maeneo ya Mashariki na Kaskazini mwa Jamhuri ya Kidemokrasia ya Congo.
Hayo ni kwa mujibu wa upelelezi wa chombo cha usalama kinachowaleta pamoja wakuu wa usalama katika kanda ya maziwa makuu, kuna uwezekano wa eneo hilo kuingiliwa kirahisi na wanamgambo wa kundi hilo kutokana na ukosefu wa usalama na mlipuko wa ugonjwa wa Ebola ambao unatatiza juhudi za kukabiliana nao.
Vyombo vya usalama katika eneo hilo sasa vinataka kuhakikisha kuwa kundi hilo halipati nafasi kuendesha shughuli zake katika matatifa ya eneo hilo baada ya kutimuliwa mashariki ya kati.
''Kuna vitisho kwa hivyo ni onyo kwetu kulishughulika mapema kabla halijawa tatiza kubwa katika kanda ya maziwa makuu'' alisema Mkuu wa Jeshi la Uganda, Jenerali David Muhoozi'
Mkala hii imebeba madhui yaliyotoka kwenye mitandao ya kijamii. Tunaomba ruhusa yako kabla kitu chochote hakija pakiwa, sababu wanaweza wakawa wanatumia Cookies na tekinolojia nyingine. Unaweza ukasoma sera sera ya kutumia cookies katika mitandao ya kijamii kabla ya kukubali. Kutazama maudhui haya chagua accept and continue
Mwisho wa Twitter ujumbe
Haipatikani tena
Kulingana na wakuu hao wa usalama kuna haja ya wao kushirikiana na majeshi ya mataifa ya kigeni yaliyochangia katika juhudi za kuvunja kundi hilo mashariki ya kati.
''Tishio la kundi hilo la kigaidi ni kubwa kiasi ya kuhamasisha Serikali za eneo hili lote la Maziwa Makuu, kuona ya kwamba zinaongeza juhudi za kukabiliana masuala ya kigaidi iwe ni kutoka kwa kundi la al-Shabab, ISIS, Boko Haram au Al-Qaeda'', alisema katibu mtendaji wa mataifa ya maziwa makuu, Zachary Muburi Muita.
Aliongeza kuwa wamepokea ripoti kutoka kwa serikali za eneo hilo kwamba kundi la kigaidi la ADF linashirikiana na na makundi hayo ya kigaidi.
Hivi karibuni kundi la kigaidi la Islamic State lililo na chimbuko lake nchini Iraq, lilidai kufanya mashambulizi katika kijiji cha Kamango mkoani Kivu Kaskazini.
Chanzo cha picha,Getty Images
Maafisa wa kanda hiyo walisema hapakuwa na ushahidi wa IS kuhusika na shambulio hilo japo waliyoshuhudia walilaumu kundi la Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) ambalo wanadai limekuwa likishirikiana na IS.
Shambulio hilo la mwezi Aprili lilizua taharuki kuhusu hali ya usalama katika Mataifa ya Kanda ya Maziwa Makuu.
Bw. Zakaria Mwita ambaye ni Katibu Mkuu Mtendaji wa Mataifa ya Maziwa Makuu amesema kuwa wanapania kushirikiana na vikosi vya Umoja wa Mataifa kame vile MONUSC, Serikali na Jeshi la DRC pamoja na nchi  zote za Maziwa Makuu ili kuona kuwa wanakabiliana vilivyo na makundi hayo ya kigaidi yasitie fora katika eneo hilo.
Ingawa maeneo karibu yote ya DRC yamekuwa yakikumbwa na changamoto za usalama kama vita ama kushambuliwa na waasi mara kwa mara, eneo la mashariki ya nchi hiyo ndiyo lililoathirika zaidi.
Akiongea na BBC siku chache kabla ya kuondoka madarakani mwishoni mwa maka 2018, rais mataafu wa nchi hiyo, Joseph Kabila alisema katika mambo ambayo angekuwa na muda zaidi kuyashughulikia ni kurudisha amani kwa taifa hilo.
Chanzo cha picha,Getty Images
Mashariki mwa DRC kuna makundi ya kijeshi ya waasi na ya kikabila.
Baadhi ya makundi yanaondwa na raia wa nchi hiyo, lakini kuna amakundi mengine makubwa ambayo yanafadhiliwa ama kupambana za serikali za nchi jirani.
Makundi ya waasi yanayotokea nchi jirani ni FDLR ambalo lilitekeleza mauaji ya kimbari nchini Rwanda mwaka 1994 na wapiganaji wake wakakimbilia DRC.
Waasi wa ADF wanatokea nchini Uganda.
Makundi hayo ya waasi yanatumia misitu mizito iliyopo kwenye eneo hilo kujificha na kuendesha shughuli zao huku wakitangaza nia ya kushambulia nchi zao walizozikimbia.
Uganda na Rwanda zimeshavamia DRC mara mbili kwa lengo la kusambaratisha makundi hayo na vita hizo kupelekea mamilioni ya watu kufariki.
©2024 BBC. BBC haihusiki na taarifa za kutoka mitandao ya nje.Soma kuhusu mtazamo wetu wa viambatanishi vya nje.

Title: Kwanini DRC Mashariki ni eneo hatari? - BBC News Swahili
Chanzo cha picha,Getty Images
Watu 19 wameuawa na wengine kadhaa kujeruhiwa baada ya mtu mwenye silaha kusahambulia soko la samaki nchini Jamuhuri ya Kidemokrasi ya Kongo (DRC).
Tukio hilo limetokea karibia na mji wa Ituri uliopo kwenye pwani ya ziwa Albert.
"Maiti 19 ziligunduliwa katika kijiji cha Tara, na watu wengine wanane kujeruhiwa," Pilo Mulindo, kiongozi wa jadi wa eneo hilo amenukuliwa na shirika la habari la kimataifa la AFP.
Maiti hizo zimegundulika Jumapili na tukio lilitokea Jumatano ya wiki iliyopita.
Hakuna kundi la waasi ambalo limejitokeza kukiri kuhusika kwenye mauaji hayo. Lakini eneo hilo linafahamika kwa vita ya kikabila baina jamii za Hema na Lundu.
Mapigano ya makabila hayo mawili yameshapelekea vifo vya watu zaidi ya 100 na wengine zaidi ya 300,000 kuvuka ziwa Albert na kutafuta hifadhi kama wakimbizi nchini Uganda.
Ingawa maeneo karibu yote ya DRC yamekuwa yakikumbwa na changamoto za usalama kama vita ama kushambuliwa na waasi mara kwa mara, eneo la mashariki ya nchi hiyo ndiyo lililoathirika zaidi.
Akiongea na BBC siku chache kabla ya kuondoka madarakani mwishoni mwa maka 2018, rais mataafu wa nchi hiyo, Joseph Kabila amesema katika mambo ambayo angekuwa na muda zaidi kuyashughulikia ni kurudisha amani kwa taifa hilo.
Mashariki mwa DRC kuna makundi ya kijeshi ya waasi na kikabila mengi kupindukia.
Chanzo cha picha,Getty Images
Baadhi ya makundi yanaondwa na raia wa nchi hiyo, lakini kuna amakundi mengine makubwa ambayo yanafadhiliwa ama kupambana za serikali za nchi jirani.
Baadhi ya makundi ya waasi yanayotokea nchi jinani ni FDLR ambalo lilitekeleza mauaji ya kimbari nchini Rwanda mwaka 1994 na wapiganaji wake kukimbilia DRC.
Waasi wa ADF wanatokea nchini Uganda.
Makundi hayo ya waasi yanatumia misitu mizito iliyopo kwenye eneo hilo kujificha na kuendesha shughuli zao huku wakitangaza nia ya kushambulia nchi zao walizozikimbia.
Uganda na Rwanda zimeshavamia DRC mara mbili kwa lengo la kusambaratisha makundi hayo na vita hizo kupelekea mamilioni ya watu kufariki.
Chanzo cha picha,Getty Images
Eneo hilo la Mashariki ya DRC pia linakabiliwa na ugonjwa hatari wa Ebola ambapo moja ya sababu za kushindikana kushughulikiwa kikamilifu ni uwepo wa makundi ya waasi hao.
Mwezi Machi mwaka huu shirika la habari la kimataifa la Reuters liliripoti kuwa, kundi la waasi la Mai Mai lilishambulia kambi ya matibabu ya Ebola na kuua polisi na kufurusha wagonjwa na wahudumu wote wa afya.
Makundi hayo pia yamekuwa pia yakishutumiwa kwa ubakaji wa wanawake katika maeneo wanayoyashambulia, na kufanya ubakaji kuwa ni moja ya matatizo makubwa yanayolikumba eneo hilo.
Uwepo wa makundi hayo ya waasi yamefanya Umoja wa Mataifa kupeleka kikosi maalumu (MONUSCO) kulinda amani. Hata hivyo, wachambuzi wengi wamekuwa wakilaumu vikosi hivyo kwa kushindwa kutekeleza wajibu wake ipasavyo.
©2024 BBC. BBC haihusiki na taarifa za kutoka mitandao ya nje.Soma kuhusu mtazamo wetu wa viambatanishi vya nje.

Title: ADF overspill attack blamed for six DR Congo deaths - New Vision Official
May 02, 2019
CONFLICTAn attack which killed six in DR Congo's north-eastern Ituri province Wednesday was the work of an notorious militia based near the Ugandan border, their first known incursion in the area, military sources said.The attack left one soldier and five militiamen dead while two doctors were abducted, the sources in the region said.The Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) -- forced out of Uganda in the mid 1990s -- are regularly accused by DRC authorities of attacking army positions in the neighbouring province of North Kivu.To date, attacks in Ituri have tended to be blamed on the Lord's Resistance Army, but the latest assault is being seen as the ADF extending its sphere of influence."For their first attack in the province of Ituri, the ADF came in force. We killed five and captured one. One soldier has succumbed to his injuries," army spokesman lieutenant Jules Ngongo told AFP."These ADF who came from North Kivu targeted Tchadi village, in the territory of Irumu, bordering the neighbouring province of North Kivu."Nestor Banoba, the head of a local civil association in the village targeted, said three people were abducted along with the doctors.Last month, the Islamic State group for the first time claimed to be behind an attack on a Congolese army position in the North Kivu village of Komanda.The ADF is a shadowy Islamist-rooted group that rose in western Uganda in 1995 under the leadership of Jamil Mukulu, a Christian turned Muslim.The ADF have notably been blamed for a 2014  massacre of hundreds of civilians in the North Kivu region of Beni as well as the killings of 22 UN peacekeepers and dozens of DRC troops over the past 18 months.Over that period, however, the group has made no demands nor has any figurehead publicly emerged.One Congolese officer, Muhindo Akili Mundos, who commanded a force targeting the group from August 2014 to June 2015, has been accused by the UN of supporting an ADF "sub-group" known as ADF-Mwalika.Also related to this storyADF rebels kill six, kidnap five in east DRCongoUN envoy pledges support to fight ADF rebelsADF rebles kill at least seven civilians in eastern DR Congo
CONFLICT
An attack which killed six in DR Congo's north-eastern Ituri province Wednesday was the work of an notorious militia based near the Ugandan border, their first known incursion in the area, military sources said.
The attack left one soldier and five militiamen dead while two doctors were abducted, the sources in the region said.
The Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) -- forced out of Uganda in the mid 1990s -- are regularly accused by DRC authorities of attacking army positions in the neighbouring province of North Kivu.
To date, attacks in Ituri have tended to be blamed on the Lord's Resistance Army, but the latest assault is being seen as the ADF extending its sphere of influence.
"For their first attack in the province of Ituri, the ADF came in force. We killed five and captured one. One soldier has succumbed to his injuries," army spokesman lieutenant Jules Ngongo told AFP.
"These ADF who came from North Kivu targeted Tchadi village, in the territory of Irumu, bordering the neighbouring province of North Kivu."
Nestor Banoba, the head of a local civil association in the village targeted, said three people were abducted along with the doctors.
Last month, the Islamic State group for the first time claimed to be behind an attack on a Congolese army position in the North Kivu village of Komanda.
The ADF is a shadowy Islamist-rooted group that rose in western Uganda in 1995 under the leadership of Jamil Mukulu, a Christian turned Muslim.
The ADF have notably been blamed for a 2014  massacre of hundreds of civilians in the North Kivu region of Beni as well as the killings of 22 UN peacekeepers and dozens of DRC troops over the past 18 months.
Over that period, however, the group has made no demands nor has any figurehead publicly emerged.
One Congolese officer, Muhindo Akili Mundos, who commanded a force targeting the group from August 2014 to June 2015, has been accused by the UN of supporting an ADF "sub-group" known as ADF-Mwalika.
Also related to this story
ADF rebels kill six, kidnap five in east DRCongo
UN envoy pledges support to fight ADF rebels
ADF rebles kill at least seven civilians in eastern DR Congo



Title: Kagame, DRC’s Tshisekedi, Angola President Meet to Restore Peace in the Region – KT PRESS

President Félix Antoine Tshisekedi of Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), on Friday hosted Rwanda’s President Paul Kagame and Angola President João Lourenço to a tripartite meeting that focused on restoring regional security and enhancing economic cooperation.
The meeting took place in DRC capital Kinshasa.
The Great Lakes Region continues to face serious issues of rebels causing insecurity – mainly coming from their hideouts in the thick forests of DRC.
These rebels include, among others, the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR) – a terrorist group destabilising the Great Lakes Region for over 20 years now.
FDLR comprises of remnants of the genocidal forces that killed over one million Tutsi during the 1994 Genocide against the Tutsi in Rwanda, before fleeing to DRC.
Through collaboration with FARDC, the army of Democratic Republic of Congo, some FDLR commanders have been arrested and sent to Rwanda to face justice.
The latest was the force’s Spokesperson – Le Forge Fils Bazeye, who was arrested in December last year.
Pictures of three leaders holding each other’s hand were released by President Kagame’s office – signaling renewed collaboration to deal with regional insecurity and restore peace and cooperation.

Their meeting comes at a time when relations between Rwanda and its two neighbors; Uganda and Burundi have gone sour.
Rwanda accuses both Uganda and Burundi of harboring self-exiled Rwandans, seeking to destabalise the country.
Callixte Nsabimana – the leader of a terror group ‘FLN’ that claimed responsibility of recent attacks in the Rwandan South and Western Province, pleaded to court last week that he was aided by top security officers in the Burundi and Ugandan army to organize attacks on Rwanda.


@ KT PRESS 2014 - 2024 . All Right Reserved.

Title: Home | Monitor
Some Ugandan career diplomats believe that the majority of the political appointees are unfit and unsuitable to represent the country abroad
The judge's order is intended to facilitate the defense team's cross-examination of forensic scientist Andrew Kizimula Mubiru, scheduled to begin on September 10
More than half of Uganda’s population, estimated at 45.9 million, is under the age of 35, according to preliminary results of the latest national population and housing census conducted in May...
The nine-time champions have had to endure a season dominated by a series of problems.
Cheptegei expressed his gratitude, saying he is excited about building partnerships with supportive organisations
Concentrating government offices and activities in Kampala has created a property asset bubble in the capital that is at odds with how congested and unliveable the city has become
Much as the rear seats were designed to accommodate three passengers, they can comfortably take on four passengers and each will have enough legroom, even for long distances
Several subscribers have cancelled their pay TV subscriptions in favour of streaming services that provide on-demand content, flexible viewing options, and budget-friendly subscription plans.
When he met Aline Kalisa, Rogers Murungi was going through a divorce with the mother of his two children
Like someone had opened the floodgates, other symptoms followed on the heels of her snapping knees. The worst were the hot flashes
Manchester United forward Alejandro Garnacho has the potential to become a world class player, manager Erik ten Hag has said
Nation Media Group © 2024
It's free!
Access the best of Monitor's Independent Journalism

Title: Andalucía suma dos fallecidos y ocho casos por PCR en una jornada en la que supera los 14.000 curados
MADRID, 22 (SERVIMEDIA)La secretaria de Estado de Turismo, Isabel Borrego, afirmó este jueves que el sector turístico está “en el buen camino” y auguró un aumento en el número de turistas internacionales, con “buenos datos” en visitantes provenientes de Asia y Estados Unidos, y en el gasto que estos realizan.Así lo señaló Borrego en declaraciones a los medios antes de participar en la entrega los premios 'Destinos europeos de excelencia' (EDEN) a cuatro destinos españoles, después de conocerse la Encuesta de Movimientos Turísticos en Frontera (Frontur) del mes de septiembre.Esta encuesta refleja que España recibió más de 54,36 millones de turistas extranjeros en los nueve primeros meses del año, un 3,8% más que en el mismo período en 2014, lo que supone un aumento de dos millones de visitantes adicionales.“Estamos en el buen camino tenemos que trabajar por diversificar nuestra oferta y poner en valor nuestras fortalezas como la gastronomía”, valoró Borrego, quien destacó que las previsiones de Industria coinciden “plenamente” con las del sector privado.En concreto, Borrego explicó que las estimaciones apuntan a que un aumento del número de turistas internacionales y del gasto que realizan, tras acumular en lo que va de año un alza del 7% del gasto, con un incremento del gasto medio y del gasto diario.Asimismo, Borrego auguró “buenos resultados” en los datos de turistas europeos y en el número de visitantes provenientes de Asia y Estados Unidos tras crecer “de una manera exponencial” en septiembre.En este sentido, valoró que este mayor flujo de turistas asiáticos y estadounidenses “vienen muy bien porque gastan mucho más, por encima de la media”.Igualmente,  resaltó que los objetivos del ministerio son los de diversificar el turismo territorialmente para que esta actividad económica “llegue a todos los territorios de España”, para lo que “vamos a apostar” por las zonas menos conocidas por los turistas internacionales.La secretaria de Estado de Turismo entregó los Premios EDEN 2015 a la Comarca del Goierri, Conil de la Frontera, la comarca de los Valles Pasiegos y Ceuta.
MADRID, 22 (SERVIMEDIA)
La secretaria de Estado de Turismo, Isabel Borrego, afirmó este jueves que el sector turístico está “en el buen camino” y auguró un aumento en el número de turistas internacionales, con “buenos datos” en visitantes provenientes de Asia y Estados Unidos, y en el gasto que estos realizan.
Así lo señaló Borrego en declaraciones a los medios antes de participar en la entrega los premios 'Destinos europeos de excelencia' (EDEN) a cuatro destinos españoles, después de conocerse la Encuesta de Movimientos Turísticos en Frontera (Frontur) del mes de septiembre.
Esta encuesta refleja que España recibió más de 54,36 millones de turistas extranjeros en los nueve primeros meses del año, un 3,8% más que en el mismo período en 2014, lo que supone un aumento de dos millones de visitantes adicionales.
“Estamos en el buen camino tenemos que trabajar por diversificar nuestra oferta y poner en valor nuestras fortalezas como la gastronomía”, valoró Borrego, quien destacó que las previsiones de Industria coinciden “plenamente” con las del sector privado.
En concreto, Borrego explicó que las estimaciones apuntan a que un aumento del número de turistas internacionales y del gasto que realizan, tras acumular en lo que va de año un alza del 7% del gasto, con un incremento del gasto medio y del gasto diario.
Asimismo, Borrego auguró “buenos resultados” en los datos de turistas europeos y en el número de visitantes provenientes de Asia y Estados Unidos tras crecer “de una manera exponencial” en septiembre.
En este sentido, valoró que este mayor flujo de turistas asiáticos y estadounidenses “vienen muy bien porque gastan mucho más, por encima de la media”.
Igualmente,  resaltó que los objetivos del ministerio son los de diversificar el turismo territorialmente para que esta actividad económica “llegue a todos los territorios de España”, para lo que “vamos a apostar” por las zonas menos conocidas por los turistas internacionales.
La secretaria de Estado de Turismo entregó los Premios EDEN 2015 a la Comarca del Goierri, Conil de la Frontera, la comarca de los Valles Pasiegos y Ceuta.

MADRID, 22 (SERVIMEDIA)
La secretaria de Estado de Turismo, Isabel Borrego, afirmó este jueves que el sector turístico está “en el buen camino” y auguró un aumento en el número de turistas internacionales, con “buenos datos” en visitantes provenientes de Asia y Estados Unidos, y en el gasto que estos realizan.
Así lo señaló Borrego en declaraciones a los medios antes de participar en la entrega los premios 'Destinos europeos de excelencia' (EDEN) a cuatro destinos españoles, después de conocerse la Encuesta de Movimientos Turísticos en Frontera (Frontur) del mes de septiembre.
Esta encuesta refleja que España recibió más de 54,36 millones de turistas extranjeros en los nueve primeros meses del año, un 3,8% más que en el mismo período en 2014, lo que supone un aumento de dos millones de visitantes adicionales.
“Estamos en el buen camino tenemos que trabajar por diversificar nuestra oferta y poner en valor nuestras fortalezas como la gastronomía”, valoró Borrego, quien destacó que las previsiones de Industria coinciden “plenamente” con las del sector privado.
En concreto, Borrego explicó que las estimaciones apuntan a que un aumento del número de turistas internacionales y del gasto que realizan, tras acumular en lo que va de año un alza del 7% del gasto, con un incremento del gasto medio y del gasto diario.
Asimismo, Borrego auguró “buenos resultados” en los datos de turistas europeos y en el número de visitantes provenientes de Asia y Estados Unidos tras crecer “de una manera exponencial” en septiembre.
En este sentido, valoró que este mayor flujo de turistas asiáticos y estadounidenses “vienen muy bien porque gastan mucho más, por encima de la media”.
Igualmente,  resaltó que los objetivos del ministerio son los de diversificar el turismo territorialmente para que esta actividad económica “llegue a todos los territorios de España”, para lo que “vamos a apostar” por las zonas menos conocidas por los turistas internacionales.
La secretaria de Estado de Turismo entregó los Premios EDEN 2015 a la Comarca del Goierri, Conil de la Frontera, la comarca de los Valles Pasiegos y Ceuta.

Menuda semana tras el breve descanso. Precios del petróleo, cifras de inflación, titulares fiscales y debates sobre la reunión del BCE de la próxima semana. Nos visitaron fantasmas del pasado, del presente y, potencialmente, del futuro próximo.
El consejero delegado de International Airlines Group (IAG), Luis Gallego, destacó este viernes “el buen funcionamiento” de los aeropuertos españoles en comparación con otros de Europa, entre los que citó los de Londres, Ámsterdam y Frankfurt, según dijo una conferencia con periodistas en relación con los resultados del ‘holding’ de Iberia y Vueling en el primer semestre.
Sugarbabe Deluxe es una plataforma de citas en línea de alto nivel que posee un carácter moderno y exclusivo, y que ofrece la oportunidad de hacer realidad el sueño de muchas personas mediante una gestión seria, discreta y cumpliendo todas las expectativas, tanto si se está buscando una relación de pareja a largo plazo, como si lo que se quiere es una aventura envuelta de mucha pasión y diversión para romper la rutina y evadirse.


Title: Ascienden a 50 los secuestrados tras varios ataques de las ADF en el este de RDC | Teinteresa
Teinteresa
Información para personas. Sin etiquetas
6 de mayo de 2019PorEUROPA PRESS
El portavoz de las Fuerzas Armadas en Ituri, Jules Ngongo, ha señalado que en las operaciones llevadas a cabo en respuesta desde el 1 de mayo en Banyari Tchabi han muerto cinco presuntos integrantes de este grupo islamista, tal y como ha recogido la emisora local Radio Okapi.
Los ataques se iniciaron el 1 de mayo con un asalto contra la localidad de Tchabi en el que fueron saqueadas varias tiendas e instalaciones sanitarias. Posteriormente fueron atacadas las localidades de Batonga, Mulango y Nyalikanga.
«Hemos enviado refuerzos considerables. El objetivo es rodear al enemigo. Que la población no se inquiete. Estamos dispuestos para la batalla para garantizar la seguridad y la tranquilidad de la población», ha recalcado Ngongo.
Fuentes locales citadas por el portal congoleño de noticias Actualité han señalado que entre los secuestrados hay varias enfermeras de un centro de salud.
La milicia de las ADF actúa en RDC desde la década de los noventa y, a pesar de las reiteradas ofensivas lanzadas contra ella, sigue generando violencia en la zona. Está considerado uno de los grupos armados más peligrosos de las varias decenas que operan en el país africano.
Varios grupos armados controlan partes del este de RDC pese a que la guerra de 1998-2003 concluyera formalmente. El conflicto causó millones de muertos, la mayoría víctimas del hambre y las enfermedades.
Recientemente han surgido informaciones en torno a posibles contactos entre las ADF y el grupo yihadista Estado Islámico, especialmente después de que este grupo reclamara en abril la autoría del que sería su primer ataque en el país africano, así como la formación de una nueva rama en el continente, llamada Provincia de África Central.
El comunicado de Estado Islámico fue publicado días después de que los medios locales informaran de varios ataques por parte de milicianos islamistas en la zona de Kamango, si bien fueron achacados a las ADF.
Archivado en:Mundo
Si deseas que te mantengamos informado suscríbete a nuestra newsletter
Copyright © 2024 · www.teinteresa.es

Title: DR Congo army displays 23 'militants' killed in combat in north | Pulse Nigeria
The Congolese army on Thursday displayed 23 corpses it said were the bodies of militants killed in combat in the east, where the Islamic State also claimed an attack on the military.
The military showed the bodies in Beni, where hundreds of civilians have been killed since 2014 in attacks blamed on a shadowy Islamist force called Allied Democratic Forces or ADF.
The army said the militants were ADF fighters killed in fighting when they launched an attack on an army base.
"Early this morning, the ADF attacked our position in the town of Ngite-Mavivi, our men reacted and inflicted a heavy loss in their ranks," Congolese army spokesman, Major General Leon-Richard Kasong told AFP.
The ADF, forced out of Uganda in the mid 1990s, is frequently accused by DRC authorities of attacking army positions in North Kivu province.
But later on Thursday, the Islamic State's Central Africa affiliate also claimed an attack against the army "close the village of Mavivi in Beni area," according to the SITE jihadist monitoring group.
AFP was unable to immediately verify the IS claim. It was unclear what relation there is between the two Islamist militant groups in the north DR Congo.
Last month, the IS group for the first time claimed to be behind an attack on a Congolese army position in North Kivu province.
Islamic State-affiliated groups are operating in several central and West African countries, including parts of the Sahel and Nigeria, Chad and Niger.
Welcome to the Pulse Community! We will now be sending you a daily newsletter on news, entertainment and more.   Also join us across all of our other channels - we love to be connected!
Eyewitness? Submit your stories now via social or:
Email:eyewitness@pulse.ng
Welcome to the Pulse Community! We will now be sending you a daily newsletter on news, entertainment and more. Also join us across all of our other channels - we love to be connected!

Title: Ten people kidnapped by armed group in eastern DRC | News24
Thursday, 29 August
23 May 2019
Ten people have been kidnapped by an armed group in the Beni region of eastern Democratic Republic of Congo, local sources said on Thursday.
The assailants raided Chianichani village, where they looted and burned a local health centre and robbed houses, sources said.
"Ten people were swept away by these attackers," Donat Kibwana, administrative director of Beni, told AFP.
Beni has been one of the main cities affected by DRC tenth outbreak of Ebola in 40 year - the virus has killed more than 1,000 people since August.
According to the SITE Intelligence group, the Islamic State group claimed responsibility for the attack in Chianchiani and another village, Kumbwa in Kamango, saying they clashed with the Congolese military.
AFP could not immediately verify the claim.
The Congolese army has not reported an attack on its bases in Kamango.
Last month, the Islamic State group for the first time claimed to be behind an attack on a Congolese army position in North Kivu province.
Another group, the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) - forced out of Uganda in the mid 1990s -- are regularly accused by DRC authorities of attacking army positions in North Kivu.
The Islamist-rooted ADF have notably been blamed for a 2014 massacre of hundreds of civilians in the North Kivu region of Beni.
Indulge in the finer things
News24's new magazine is curated for those who understand luxury and want to celebrate the richness of life.
Free to listen for subscribers
News24's August audiobook that’s free to listen to for subscribers is The CEO X Factor by KC Rottok Chesaina.
Can you ace them all?
Today’s crossword, wordflower, sudoku and weekly news quiz
Friday Briefing - weekly
Insight and analysis on the big political story of the week, plus a roundup of top columns and reader favourites.
21 Aug
16 Aug
07 Aug
01 Aug
19 Jul
15 Jul

Use your voice to deepen the dialogue and engage with stories of courage, endurance, community, triumph, and the pursuit of truth in SA.
13 Aug
16 Jul
30 Jun
19 Jun
Contact the public editor with feedback for our journalists, complaints, queries or suggestions about articles on News24.
22 Aug
20 Aug
20 Aug
19 Aug

Title: Red Cross: Ebola Outbreak in Congo 'Worsening,' over 1k Dead | Breitbart
The Ebola outbreak in Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) is “worsening” and has already killed more than 1,000 people, fueling a disconcerting number of cases in recent days, the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) revealed over the weekend.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the Ebola outbreak had killed 1,029 (963 confirmed, 66 probable) as of Saturday.
The United Nations agency added that there are 1,488 confirmed and 66 probable cases of people infected by the virus in Congo.
On Saturday, IFRCnoted:
In the past week, 23 cases were reported in one day, the highest since the start of the outbreak in August 2018. Major security challenges and lack of community acceptance of the response continue to hamper efforts to end the outbreak.
Islamic State (ISIS) jihadis haveestablisheda presence in the DRC. Jihadis linked to the terrorist group claimed responsibility for the first ISIS attack that killed eight people in the Central African country on April 18.
The DRC is also home to the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a group seeking tooverthrowthe Ugandan government and establish an Islamic emirate in the region.
According to the New York University’s Congo Research Group, the ADF is just one of many DRC rebel groups trying toalignthemselves with jihadist groups like ISIS and its rival al-Qaeda.
“Attacks in DRC continue to terrorize the population,” the United Nationsreportedon Friday.
Referring to the deadly Ebola virus outbreak, the IFRC reported:
Worryingly, many of these deaths are occurring within communities which means that people are not seeking care and treatment in health centers. This is accelerating the spread of Ebola within communities.
Voice of America (VOA)notedthat the deteriorating conditions in the DRC are keeping people from going to Ebola treatment centers.
“They may instead choose to stay home where they run the risk of infecting their caretakers and neighbors,” it revealed.
Nicole Fassina, the Ebola coordinator at IFRC, declared:
We are at a critical juncture where we need to step up our support to communities that are facing greater risk of infection, yet Ebola responders face massive security challenges and a lack of resources for the response. An under-resourced operation creates a very real risk of an international spread of Ebola.
Expensive burials that are out of the reach of impoverished people in Congo plagued by Ebola are required to contain the spread of the virus, the humanitarian organization acknowledged.
Red Cross volunteers continue to brave the security and health challenges to carry out “safe and dignified burials where possible,” the group said, adding:
Volunteers and other burial teams have responded to more than 5,000 safe and dignified burial requests across North Kivu and Ituri provinces. They have been successful nearly 80 percent of the time.
IFRC is also supporting localized efforts to keep the outbreak from spreading to Burundi, Rwanda, South Sudan, and Uganda.
The humanitarian aid organization’s assessment of the situation in the DRC echoed an April 30 report from the United Nations, which alsofoundthat the outbreak is “worsening.”
Pleaselet us knowif you're having issues with commenting.




Copyright © 2024 Breitbart

Title: DR Congo forces kill 26 rebels in Ebola zone near Beni | ISIL/ISIS News | Al Jazeera
Congolese army says Allied Democratic Forces fighters were killed during attack on an army position in Ngite village.
Congolese forces have killed 26 rebels from a group thought to be linked to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISILor ISIS), while repelling an attack in the country’s east Ebola zone, the army has said.
The exchange in fire took place on Thursday in a village near the city of Beni, an area where more than a dozen different militia groups and associated armed gangs operate, and the epicentre of theDemocratic Republic of Congo‘s worst-ever Ebola epidemic.
The army’s spokesman for east Congo, General Leon-Richard Kasonga, said fighters from the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) attacked a position in Ngite village and that soldiers returned fire and pursued them.
“Twenty-six rebels were neutralised by the army, and their bodies recovered,” he told reporters in Goma.
The ADF has never claimed allegiance to ISIL, but witnesses said the Congolese group carried out an attack last month in nearby Bovata, which ISIL claimed.

ISIL described that attack as its first in what it called the “Central Africa Province” of the “Caliphate” – the name it gave to the area of Syria andIraqthat it controlled for several years from 2014.
The ADF arose in westernUgandain 1995 under the leadership of Jamil Mukulu, a Christian-turned-Muslim.
Forced out ofUganda, it operates in the border area in the DRC’s North Kivu province, an area where other armed groups are also active.
It has been blamed for recruiting and using child soldiers, killing hundreds of civilians since 2014, as well as 15 Tanzanian peacekeepers who died in an attack in December 2017.
Rival armed groups remain active in pockets of east Congo long after the official end of a 1998-2003 war in which millions of people died, mostly from hunger and disease.
Insecurity around Beni is also undermining efforts to contain theEbolaepidemic, the second worst outbreak in history, which has killed close to 1,300 people since August.
Last month, fighters attacked a hospital in the nearby city of Butembo and killed a Cameroonian doctor working for theWorld Health Organization.









Follow Al Jazeera English:

Title: Democratic Republic of Congo – Conflict and internal displacement (DG ECHO, UN, INGOs, media) (ECHO Daily Flash of 08 May 2019) - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWeb
DR Congo
Intense fighting has been ongoing since mid-April 2019 between the Congolese armed forces and a non-state armed actor, the “Allied Democratic Forces (ADF”) , in North Kivu and in particular around the city of Beni – also affected by an Ebola outbreak. The ADF are one of the most organised and aggressive armed groups in North Kivu.
Around 60,000 people have been displaced as a result, according to local sources.
Many have sought refuge in public places including 7,000 in a school located 1 km from the Ugandan border, with little or no access to food, water and sanitation, increasing the risk of diseases spreading. Aid organisations are assessing the humanitarian situation.
Dozens of militia groups have been terrorising North Kivu for the past 20 years, with a significant increase in conflict, criminality and gender-based violence in recent months. More than one million people have been displaced from the province in recent years. The ongoing Ebola outbreak – the largest in the DRC – comes on top of this protection crisis.
DR Congo+ 4 more
DR Congo
DR Congo
DR Congo+ 9 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: El ISCIII logra avances en organoides cerebrales para facilitar la investigación de enfermedades neurológicas
- Estima que la deuda neta del país podría llegar este año al 115% del PIBMADRID, 21 (SERVIMEDIA)El terremoto y posterior tsunami, así como el accidente nuclear que sufrió Japón en marzo, ha afectado gravemente al crecimiento económico de este país. Sin embargo, y según señala la OCDE, se espera que la reconstrucción impulse la actividad en el transcurso del año. Un esfuerzo que requerirá, a su juicio, de subidas de impuestos.En su último Estudio Económico, esta organización señala que el terremoto del 11 de marzo fue el más fuerte jamás registrado en este país asiático y provocó el mayor desastre de Japón desde el fin de la segunda guerra mundial.La OCDE trabajará en estrecha colaboración con las autoridades japonesas en los próximos meses y está dispuesta a prestarle su apoyo en este difícil momento.Aunque todavía es demasiado pronto para evaluar el alcance de los daños, una de las consecuencias inmediatas será la reducción de la producción; un parón que más tarde se revertirá, de la mano de los esfueros precisos para la recontrucción del país.La OCDE incide además en que las presiones deflacionistas perjudicarán al crecimiento nipón, por lo que el Banco de Japón "debe mantener una postura acorde a esta situación" y prestar especial atención a los riesgos derivados de esta tendencia a la deflación.En su informe, la OCDE destaca que la actual prioridad es abordar las necesidades humanitarias y de reconstrucción, además de poner remedio al desastre nuclear. "Esto, inevitablemente, crea la necesidad de aumentar a corto plazo el gasto público", añade.Sin embargo, y teniendo en cuenta la situación de deuda en el país, tal vez será preciso financiar la recuperación cambiando las prioridades de gasto y aumentando los ingresos del Estado, "apelando a la solidaridad de los japoneses".Por su parte, la situación fiscal "ha llegado a un punto crítico". Se prevé que el déficit crónico del presupuesto eleve aún más la deuda pública bruta, hasta llegar a un nivel sin precedentes del 200% del PIB, con una deuda neta del 115% en 2011.Por ello, "es prioritario poner en marcha un plan de saneamiento creíble y detallado, con objetivos a medio plazo que incluyan recortes de gastos y aumentos de impuestos".Habrá asimismo que emprender una nueva estrategia de crecimiento, que pasará por incrementar la demanda en cuatro áreas: la innovación ecológica, el cuidado de la salud, la integración económica con los países asiáticos y el desarrollo regional. Se trata, añade el documento, de capítulos que "se basan principalmente en la reforma reglamentaria y no en costosas medidas fiscales".La reforma del sector educativo y el fortalecimiento de la competencia en el sector terciario son otros puntos claves para lograr la recuperación del país, junto a la intensificación de la internacionalización.Por último, la OCDE considera que para que la recuperación sea posible también habrá que reducir el actual dualismo del mercado laboral japonés, en el que hay una creciente participación de trabajadores "precarios", que tienen bajos salarios, baja cobertura de la seguridad social y escasa formación.
- Estima que la deuda neta del país podría llegar este año al 115% del PIB
MADRID, 21 (SERVIMEDIA)
El terremoto y posterior tsunami, así como el accidente nuclear que sufrió Japón en marzo, ha afectado gravemente al crecimiento económico de este país. Sin embargo, y según señala la OCDE, se espera que la reconstrucción impulse la actividad en el transcurso del año. Un esfuerzo que requerirá, a su juicio, de subidas de impuestos.
En su último Estudio Económico, esta organización señala que el terremoto del 11 de marzo fue el más fuerte jamás registrado en este país asiático y provocó el mayor desastre de Japón desde el fin de la segunda guerra mundial.
La OCDE trabajará en estrecha colaboración con las autoridades japonesas en los próximos meses y está dispuesta a prestarle su apoyo en este difícil momento.
Aunque todavía es demasiado pronto para evaluar el alcance de los daños, una de las consecuencias inmediatas será la reducción de la producción; un parón que más tarde se revertirá, de la mano de los esfueros precisos para la recontrucción del país.
La OCDE incide además en que las presiones deflacionistas perjudicarán al crecimiento nipón, por lo que el Banco de Japón "debe mantener una postura acorde a esta situación" y prestar especial atención a los riesgos derivados de esta tendencia a la deflación.
En su informe, la OCDE destaca que la actual prioridad es abordar las necesidades humanitarias y de reconstrucción, además de poner remedio al desastre nuclear. "Esto, inevitablemente, crea la necesidad de aumentar a corto plazo el gasto público", añade.
Sin embargo, y teniendo en cuenta la situación de deuda en el país, tal vez será preciso financiar la recuperación cambiando las prioridades de gasto y aumentando los ingresos del Estado, "apelando a la solidaridad de los japoneses".
Por su parte, la situación fiscal "ha llegado a un punto crítico". Se prevé que el déficit crónico del presupuesto eleve aún más la deuda pública bruta, hasta llegar a un nivel sin precedentes del 200% del PIB, con una deuda neta del 115% en 2011.
Por ello, "es prioritario poner en marcha un plan de saneamiento creíble y detallado, con objetivos a medio plazo que incluyan recortes de gastos y aumentos de impuestos".
Habrá asimismo que emprender una nueva estrategia de crecimiento, que pasará por incrementar la demanda en cuatro áreas: la innovación ecológica, el cuidado de la salud, la integración económica con los países asiáticos y el desarrollo regional. Se trata, añade el documento, de capítulos que "se basan principalmente en la reforma reglamentaria y no en costosas medidas fiscales".
La reforma del sector educativo y el fortalecimiento de la competencia en el sector terciario son otros puntos claves para lograr la recuperación del país, junto a la intensificación de la internacionalización.
Por último, la OCDE considera que para que la recuperación sea posible también habrá que reducir el actual dualismo del mercado laboral japonés, en el que hay una creciente participación de trabajadores "precarios", que tienen bajos salarios, baja cobertura de la seguridad social y escasa formación.

- Estima que la deuda neta del país podría llegar este año al 115% del PIB
MADRID, 21 (SERVIMEDIA)
El terremoto y posterior tsunami, así como el accidente nuclear que sufrió Japón en marzo, ha afectado gravemente al crecimiento económico de este país. Sin embargo, y según señala la OCDE, se espera que la reconstrucción impulse la actividad en el transcurso del año. Un esfuerzo que requerirá, a su juicio, de subidas de impuestos.
En su último Estudio Económico, esta organización señala que el terremoto del 11 de marzo fue el más fuerte jamás registrado en este país asiático y provocó el mayor desastre de Japón desde el fin de la segunda guerra mundial.
La OCDE trabajará en estrecha colaboración con las autoridades japonesas en los próximos meses y está dispuesta a prestarle su apoyo en este difícil momento.
Aunque todavía es demasiado pronto para evaluar el alcance de los daños, una de las consecuencias inmediatas será la reducción de la producción; un parón que más tarde se revertirá, de la mano de los esfueros precisos para la recontrucción del país.
La OCDE incide además en que las presiones deflacionistas perjudicarán al crecimiento nipón, por lo que el Banco de Japón "debe mantener una postura acorde a esta situación" y prestar especial atención a los riesgos derivados de esta tendencia a la deflación.
En su informe, la OCDE destaca que la actual prioridad es abordar las necesidades humanitarias y de reconstrucción, además de poner remedio al desastre nuclear. "Esto, inevitablemente, crea la necesidad de aumentar a corto plazo el gasto público", añade.
Sin embargo, y teniendo en cuenta la situación de deuda en el país, tal vez será preciso financiar la recuperación cambiando las prioridades de gasto y aumentando los ingresos del Estado, "apelando a la solidaridad de los japoneses".
Por su parte, la situación fiscal "ha llegado a un punto crítico". Se prevé que el déficit crónico del presupuesto eleve aún más la deuda pública bruta, hasta llegar a un nivel sin precedentes del 200% del PIB, con una deuda neta del 115% en 2011.
Por ello, "es prioritario poner en marcha un plan de saneamiento creíble y detallado, con objetivos a medio plazo que incluyan recortes de gastos y aumentos de impuestos".
Habrá asimismo que emprender una nueva estrategia de crecimiento, que pasará por incrementar la demanda en cuatro áreas: la innovación ecológica, el cuidado de la salud, la integración económica con los países asiáticos y el desarrollo regional. Se trata, añade el documento, de capítulos que "se basan principalmente en la reforma reglamentaria y no en costosas medidas fiscales".
La reforma del sector educativo y el fortalecimiento de la competencia en el sector terciario son otros puntos claves para lograr la recuperación del país, junto a la intensificación de la internacionalización.
Por último, la OCDE considera que para que la recuperación sea posible también habrá que reducir el actual dualismo del mercado laboral japonés, en el que hay una creciente participación de trabajadores "precarios", que tienen bajos salarios, baja cobertura de la seguridad social y escasa formación.

Menuda semana tras el breve descanso. Precios del petróleo, cifras de inflación, titulares fiscales y debates sobre la reunión del BCE de la próxima semana. Nos visitaron fantasmas del pasado, del presente y, potencialmente, del futuro próximo.
El consejero delegado de International Airlines Group (IAG), Luis Gallego, destacó este viernes “el buen funcionamiento” de los aeropuertos españoles en comparación con otros de Europa, entre los que citó los de Londres, Ámsterdam y Frankfurt, según dijo una conferencia con periodistas en relación con los resultados del ‘holding’ de Iberia y Vueling en el primer semestre.
Sugarbabe Deluxe es una plataforma de citas en línea de alto nivel que posee un carácter moderno y exclusivo, y que ofrece la oportunidad de hacer realidad el sueño de muchas personas mediante una gestión seria, discreta y cumpliendo todas las expectativas, tanto si se está buscando una relación de pareja a largo plazo, como si lo que se quiere es una aventura envuelta de mucha pasión y diversión para romper la rutina y evadirse.


Title: Home | Monitor
Some Ugandan career diplomats believe that the majority of the political appointees are unfit and unsuitable to represent the country abroad
The judge's order is intended to facilitate the defense team's cross-examination of forensic scientist Andrew Kizimula Mubiru, scheduled to begin on September 10
More than half of Uganda’s population, estimated at 45.9 million, is under the age of 35, according to preliminary results of the latest national population and housing census conducted in May...
The nine-time champions have had to endure a season dominated by a series of problems.
Cheptegei expressed his gratitude, saying he is excited about building partnerships with supportive organisations
Concentrating government offices and activities in Kampala has created a property asset bubble in the capital that is at odds with how congested and unliveable the city has become
Much as the rear seats were designed to accommodate three passengers, they can comfortably take on four passengers and each will have enough legroom, even for long distances
Several subscribers have cancelled their pay TV subscriptions in favour of streaming services that provide on-demand content, flexible viewing options, and budget-friendly subscription plans.
When he met Aline Kalisa, Rogers Murungi was going through a divorce with the mother of his two children
Like someone had opened the floodgates, other symptoms followed on the heels of her snapping knees. The worst were the hot flashes
Manchester United forward Alejandro Garnacho has the potential to become a world class player, manager Erik ten Hag has said
Nation Media Group © 2024
It's free!
Access the best of Monitor's Independent Journalism

Title: Ebola deaths top 1,000 in increasingly dangerous outbreak | CIDRAP
World Bank, Vincent Tremeau / Flickr cc
Today Mike Ryan, MD, with the World Health Organization (WHO) outlined major response setbacks in trying to contain the ongoing Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)—including more than 100 violent attacks since January—as cases continue to mount and deaths top 1,000.
"Every time we have managed to gain control over the virus, we have suffered major security events," Ryan said, as he explained that the situation on the ground in North Kivu and Ituri provinces is the worst it's been in months, marred by community distrust and a growing threat from rebel groups who are using the outbreak to harness political unrest in the region.
"We anticipate a scenario of continued, intense transmission," Ryan said. He is the WHO assistant director-general for emergency preparedness and response.
Ryan said outbreak response efforts this week were back to the high levels seen before the late April attacks on two Ebola treatment centers in Butembo and Katwa. He estimated that health officials are following "1,000 contacts per day, receiving 1,000 alerts, and vaccinating 1,000 people."
But in an update yesterday, the WHO also said that access and activities in parts of Mandima, Masereka, Kalunguta, and Vuhovi remain irregular owing to the presence of armed groups and other security concerns.
Since January, Ryan said, there have been 119 separate violent attacks in the region, with 42 of those attacks specifically targeting health facilities. Eighty-five health workers have been injured or killed.
Ryan said security forces yesterday thwarted an attempted attack at an Ebola treatment center in Butembo. No one was injured.
Area violence by militia groups, such as Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) recently caused tens of thousands of Congolese to flee their homes and cross over to Uganda, Oxfam said in a news release today based on a report from Oxfam and 17 other humanitarian groups. The humanitarian situation began on Mar 30, and more than 60,000 people have been displaced throughout April—half of them children.
Tamba Emmanuel Danmbi-saa, Oxfam's humanitarian program manager in the DRC, said, "This is a deeply worrying situation. These people fear going back to their homes and are being forced to live in cramped, unsanitary conditions in an area where Ebola remains a significant threat."
Francis Iwa, executive director of Care for Forced Migrants, said: "Once they enter Uganda, they also are avoiding official immigration procedures and registration as refugees—which means they may not be screened for Ebola and will be unable to access the very services prepared to assist them."
In some cases, refugees are crossing safely into Uganda; in other instances they are being used as human shields by the ADF, the relief groups said. They are calling on DRC authorities to ensure displaced people are able to cross freely and safely into Uganda.
In addition to addressing the insecurity issues facing the response effort, Ryan also fielded questions about the possibility of introducing another vaccine into the DRC, and the role of nosocomial transmission in this outbreak.
The second vaccine, Johnson and Johnson's prime boost Ebola vaccine, would likely be used in communities that have not yet seen any Ebola infections.
"It would lay down [a] barrier to protect from the virus as a tactical approach," Ryan said. Merck's rVSV-ZEBOV, the only vaccine currently in use in the DRC, would still be used, but mainly on close case contacts. As of today, 110,803 people have been vaccinated with rVSV-ZEBOV, including 30,145 in Katwa, 23,397 in Beni, and 13,763 in Butembo, according to the DRC health ministry's daily update.
Ryan said the WHO and DRC officials would launch tomorrow a new health campaign focusing on needle safety. The misuse of needles in suspected malaria patients, who actually have Ebola, may be playing a role in the nosocomial transmission of the virus.
"We are still seeing new cases that are not on any known transmission chains," Ryan said. "These often end up being nosocomial transmissions."
According to today's update from the DRC, officials confirmed 19 new cases of Ebola and 14 deaths, half of which took place in the community.
Today's cases raise the outbreak total to 1,529, of which 1,463 are confirmed and 66 are probable. Deaths have now climbed 1,008, and 270 suspected cases still under investigation. Of the 19 new cases, 7 were recorded in Beni, 6 in Katwa, 3 in Mabalako, and 1 each in Musienene, Kalunguta, and Mandima.
The WHO said the current hot spots are Katwa, Butembo, and Mandima. From Apr 10 through 30, a total of 292 confirmed cases were reported, 47% in Katwa, 13% in Butembo, and 11% in Mandima, the WHO added.
"In addition, notable recurring re-introduction events having been documented in previously affected health zones such as Mabalako and Musienene, followed by local amplification and extension to affect new heath area," the WHO said.
The DRC also noted today that the outbreak in Butembo was linked to reintroducing the virus in Kayna, Biena, Masereka, Vuhovi, and Kalunguta.
"While each of these areas had managed to spend more than 21 days without new confirmed cases between February and March 2019, the Ebola epidemic had resumed in these areas after contaminated people from Butembo or Katwa fled the teams of the riposte [response] to take refuge with relatives living in these neighboring areas," the DRC said.
See also
May 3 WHObriefing
May 3 DRCupdate
May 2 WHOupdate
May 3 Oxfamnews release
An impaired sense of smell could serve as both a potential marker of virus-induced brain damage and a marker of patients susceptible to brain damage.
A second study found good protection against hospitalization--although uneven uptake--among pregnant women.
US health officials are eying ways to reduce the spread of the virus over colder months and the holiday season.
During follow-up, 3% of patients with postvaccination myocarditis, 4% of those with post-COVID myocarditis, and 6% of those with the conventional type were readmitted for myopericarditis.
Cambodia, where an older H5N1 clade circulates in poultry, has now reported 18 human cases since early 2023.
The index is a step toward a tool that could someday be used to identify long COVID in children but is not ready for clinical use, the authors say.
The CDC has received reports of 11 imported cases and is warning pregnant travelers to affected regions about the risk of severe fetal complications.
Tularemia, or "rabbit fever," is an occupational risk for farmers, foresters, and veterinarians and is listed by the CDC as 1 of 6 high-priority bioterrorism agents.
Relative vaccine effectiveness was higher for the adjuvanted flu vaccine among older adults with multiple concurrent high-risk conditions.
The agency approved of the single-strain mRNA COVID-19 vaccines for people aged 12 and older and granted emergency use authorization for those aged 6 months to 11 years.
Help make CIDRAP's vital work possible
CIDRAP - Center for Infectious Disease Research & PolicyResearch and Innovation Office, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN
Email us
© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights Reserved.The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer
Research and Innovation Office|Contact U of M|Privacy Policy
Newsletter subscribe

Title: Islamic State Gains Foothold in Ebola-Stricken Congo
Islamic State (ISIS/ISIL) jihadis have made inroads with Islamic terrorists in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) as the central African country reels from a worsening Ebola virus outbreak, which has already infected and killed hundreds, Fox News reported this week.
Referring to the first attack in the DRC, claimed by ISIS on April 18, Fox Newsnoted:
The attack in Congo coincides with the recent terrorist attack in Sri Lanka as ISIS seem to be on the rise. The highly coordinated Easter bombings in Sri Lanka, which so far claimed the lives of 253 people, was the worst terrorist attack since 9/11.
“What ISIS looks to accomplish through its claim of the attack in the DRC and Sri Lanka is generating the perception of a global insurgency,” Sim Tack, Global Analyst at Stratfor, told Fox News.
The attacks are a testament to the lingering threat posed by ISIS despite the fall of its so-called caliphate in Iraq and Syria.
U.S. military and intelligence officialspredictedthat ISIS would continue to represent a deadly menace even after it loses its territory.
Backed by the U.S.-led coalition, local fighters continue to fight the remnants of the jihadi organization in the Middle East.
The U.S. Department of State (DOS) has acknowledged that ISIS has established branches in nearly every corner of the world.
Using U.S. government and independent assessments, Breitbart Newsdeterminedthat thousands of ISIS supporters remain dispersed across the globe, outside their once primary stronghold that spawned across swathes of Iraq and Syria.
ISIS has capitalized on chaos to entrench itself in several countries, including disease-plaguedYemen.
As if dealing with the deadly Ebola virus is not severe enough, Fox News noted on Wednesday that ISIS is now terrorizing the Congolese public.
According to theUnited Nations, the latest Ebola outbreak, the tenth in recent years, has likely infected about 1,200 and killed 760 since it began in August 2018.
Early this year, U.S. Africa Command (AFRICOM)noted:
In Central Africa, the most visible nontraditional threat this past year was an Ebola outbreak in an unstable region in eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo. The outbreak, which began in August 2018, is presently the second most lethal in history. Furthermore, the medical response has been hampered by armed conflict in the region.
The AFRICOM report came before ISIS announced its presence in the DRC.
ISISclaimedresponsibility for its first attack in the central African nation on April 18, claiming “soldiers of the caliphate” attacked military installations along the country’s border.
On April 29, days after the terrorist group claimed to have carried out the wave of suicide bombings in Sri Lanka and the attack in the DRC, ISIS’s elusive leader, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi,resurfacedin his first video in five years.
He urged jihadis to carry out more attacks and pledged to continue the crusade against its enemies, particularly those who demolished the so-called caliphate.
Leanne Erdberg, the director of the Countering Violent Extremism Program at the United States Institute of Peace, told Fox News:
Many scholars and pundits have commented on the significance of this, but ultimately if ISIS is promising state-building in the form of a caliphate, it has to project that it is doing that somewhere. And building off the scaffolding of local rebellions is a jumpstart to that promise.
“The possibility of a ‘Central Africa Province’ in post-Caliphate ISIS operations is a worrying thought given the instability and weak state capacity of the Congolese government,” Fox News added.
ISIS has already establishedbranchesin eastern, western, and northern Africa.
“Half of the [top ten] countries with the largest increases in terrorism are located in Africa, with rises also occurring in the Central African Republic, Mali, and Kenya,” the latest Global Terrorism Index (GTI)issuedby the Institute for Economics and Peace (IEP) late last year revealed.
GTI ranked Congo as the 11th country with the most significant increase in terrorism, a designation that came before ISIS claimed its first attack there last month.
The index identifies the top ten countries that experienced the most substantial increases in terror-linked deaths from 2016 to 2017 as Somalia, Egypt, Central African Republic, Myanmar, Mali, Kenya, Afghanistan, the Philippines, India, and the United Kingdom, respectively.
Congo houses the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), which is seeking to overthrow the Ugandan government and establish an Islamic state, Fox News noted.
Citing a report byNew York University’s Congo Research Group, the news outlet pointed out that ADF, one of the “hundreds” of rebel groups in the DRC, has been trying to align itself with jihadist groups like ISIS.
Pleaselet us knowif you're having issues with commenting.




Copyright © 2024 Breitbart

Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: No title found


Title: Rwanda's Kagame stars in DRC Tshisekedi ceremonies | News24
Thursday, 29 August
31 May 2019
Rwandan President Paul Kagame was the surprise guest at ceremonies in DRC on Friday to honour deceased opposition leader Etienne Tshisekedi hosted by his son Felix, the country's president.
Once the Democratic Republic of Congo's sworn enemy, Kagame joined Tshisekedi and Angolan President Joao Lourenco for a central African mini-summit ahead of the long-awaited tribute.
The three vowed to "strengthen the Congo-Angola-Rwanda axis" to "wipe out Congolese and foreign armed groups," a joint communique said, apparently referring to brutal militias which plague the DRC-Rwandan border.
DRC neighbour's Congo-Brazzaville President Denis Sassou Nguesso was also at the ceremony.
Tshisekedi died in Brussels in February 2017 at the age of 84.
He was a revered figure in the opposition for his resistance to former dictator Mobutu Sese Seko and ex-president Joseph Kabila.
He never got to see his son ascend to the presidency, after bitterly-fought elections at the end of last year that led to the first peaceful transition of power in the country's history.
His body was flown back to Kinshasa on Thursday aboard a private jet, ending a protracted battle by his family to secure its repatriation.
The coffin was displayed at the 80,000-seater Martyrs' Stadium in Kinshasa ahead of a mass in the evening. The funeral will take place on Saturday, at a mausoleum at Nsele, on the outskirts of Kinshasa.
However, the turnout was a far cry from the vast crowds and fervour the older Tshisekedi was able to muster in his heyday.
Several thousand people accompanied the hearse from the morgue to the stadium, and the venue itself was only half-full, AFP reporters said.
Kagame, who is also current head of the African Union (AU), last visited Kinshasa in 2010.
Relations between Rwanda and the DRC have been chilly since the 1990s, when Rwanda invaded the country to back rebels trying to overthrow Kabila's father, former president Laurent Kabila.
Despite an improvement in tone since Tshisekedi took over January 24, ties remain troubled by cross-border attacks on Rwandan forces by the Democratic Liberation Forces of Rwanda (FDLR), a rebel group based in the DRC.
The DRC, meanwhile, has accused Rwanda of pillaging coltan, a lucrative mineral used in electronic products, in the border region of North Kivu.
Tshisekedi tributes
Etienne Tshisekedi served as interior minister under Mobutu before joining the opposition, where he was a persistent thorn in the dictator's side.
He co-founded the Union for Democracy and Social Progress (UDPS) in 1982 after a stint in prison and in the 1990s was appointed prime minister several times, each time falling out with Mobutu after a matter of months or even days.
He boycotted the country's elections in 2006 on the grounds of fraud, and was beaten in the 2011 ballot, which was tainted by massive irregularities.
He died in Belgium, the former colonial power, where he had gone to seek medical treatment.
His son had vowed to repatriate his father's remains and bury them in his home country, but that wish was thwarted under Kabila.
The funeral has prompted tributes from fellow opposition figures as well as Kabila supporters.
Congolese Nobel Peace Prize winner Denis Mukwege praised Etienne Tshisekedi's fight for democratic values.
"It's up to us to give life to your heritage," he wrote on Twitter.
Martin Fayulu, another opposition figure, who says that a behind-the-scenes deal between Felix Tshisekedi and Kabila robbed him of victory in the presidential election, paid tribute to Etienne Tshisekedi's "fight for justice and democracy".
Praise also came from Kabila's own party, the Joint Front for Congo (FCC).
However, Kabila did not attend the stadium tribute, nor did Fayulu and another Kabila rival, Moise Katumbi, who returned to the country from self-imposed exile on May 20.
Indulge in the finer things
News24's new magazine is curated for those who understand luxury and want to celebrate the richness of life.
Free to listen for subscribers
News24's August audiobook that’s free to listen to for subscribers is The CEO X Factor by KC Rottok Chesaina.
Can you ace them all?
Today’s crossword, wordflower, sudoku and weekly news quiz
Friday Briefing - weekly
Insight and analysis on the big political story of the week, plus a roundup of top columns and reader favourites.
21 Aug
16 Aug
07 Aug
01 Aug
19 Jul
15 Jul

Use your voice to deepen the dialogue and engage with stories of courage, endurance, community, triumph, and the pursuit of truth in SA.
13 Aug
16 Jul
30 Jun
19 Jun
Contact the public editor with feedback for our journalists, complaints, queries or suggestions about articles on News24.
22 Aug
20 Aug
20 Aug
19 Aug

Title: 
	Congo: Fake Disease A Real Killer

ColombiaHaitiMexico
AfghanistanChinaCentral AsiaIndia-PakistanIndonesiaKoreaMyanmarNepalPhilippinesMicronesiaSri LankaThailand
BalkansRussia
IranIraqIsraelSyriaIsraelTurkeyYemen
AlgeriaEgyptLibyaSudan
AngolaChadCongoCongoBrazzavilleEthiopiaGuineaIvoryCoastLiberiaMaliNigeriaRwanda & BurundiSierra LeoneSomaliaUganda
Potential HotspotsTerrorismTop Ten ConflictsWar Updates
Next:MURPHY'S LAW: The MiG On MiG Secret
May 13, 2019:The Congo governments and the UN (WHO) Ebola virus epidemic containment effort in eastern Congo has been generally successful.  So far confirmed cases have been confined to North Kivu and Ituri provinces. However, the provinces are large and populous and the epidemic has not abated.  Moreover, attacks by violent militias have damaged clinics and disrupted logistical support for medical aid agencies. The ADF (Allied Democratic Forces) Islamist rebel group is likely responsible for some of the worst attacks but local Mai-Mai militias and other armed groups have also launched attacks. The city of Butembo is a frequent target of attacks and has been the scene of several firefights pitting soldiers and police against militia fighters. Local authorities in Butembo report the militia fighters motives for launching attacks are not clear, but banditry is a possibility.
The eastern Congo epidemic officially began August 1, 2018, so it has lasted ten months. In the last 40 years, Congo has had ten known Ebola virus epidemics and, statistically, the current epidemic is the worst in terms of confirmed cases and deaths. Over 1,600 cases have been confirmed, though higher figures (1,800 to 2,000) may be more accurate. The eastern Congo epidemic has killed over 1,300 people. International aid agencies believe the eastern Congo epidemic is the second-deadliest in recorded history.  It is surpassed only by the 2013-2016 outbreak in West Africa, in which more than 28,000 cases were reported and at least 11,300 people died.
In mid-April WHO announced that the eastern Congo epidemic did not yet warrant a “global emergency declaration.” However, new cases continue to appear. In the last ten days, WHO and the UN Security Council have called for more vigorous efforts and additional resources (to include medical personnel)  to contain the virus, keep it from spreading to neighboring countries and ultimately end the outbreak. Uganda is particularly worried that Congolese fleeing violence will seek refuge in Uganda and some of the refugees will have the virus. The UN and aid agencies have demanded better security for humanitarian workers and healthcare facilities, particularly the Ebola Treatment Centers (ETCs) in North Kivu and Ituri.
The truth is, political and cultural issues also impede medical services. Many eastern Congolese do not trust the national government. The pervasive corruption of the government led by former president Joseph Kabila is one good reason. Some residents doubt western medicine and have turned to “faith healers” and “folk doctors.” Medical workers and Congolese political leaders are trying to convince the doubters to get vaccinations and help identify people who have contracted the disease. (Austin Bay)
May 10, 2019: The fraudulent December 2018 presidential vote count has not been forgotten.. Former presidential candidate Martin Fayulu continues to claim the December presidential election was stolen and he has evidence that he got over 59 percent of the popular vote.  In several recent interviews he has described himself as “the president-elect” and his tone is measured, not bitter. He has also discussed with journalists a proposal to correct the fraud: Congo should conduct another election in “12 to 18 months.” Fayulu argues that former president Joseph Kabila will eventually undermine President Felix Tshisekedi and this will lead to another national crisis.  To paraphrase, Kabila will never let another Congolese leader succeed where “he failed.” Best to conduct a new and clean election. Fayulu also openly discusses “the agreement” (the deal) that Tshisekedi accepted in order to be declared the election winner. According to Fayulu, Kabila demanded Tshisekedi give him (Kabila) control of Congo’s economic bureaucracies (mining and finance).  Kabila also has loyalists in the security services.  (Austin Bay)
May 8, 2019: In eastern Congo (North Kivu province), a Mai-Mai militia launched another attack in Butembo. Observers reported the attack specifically targeted an Ebola Treatment Center. The militia fighters withdrew after exchanging fire with security forces.
In eastern Congo (North Kivu province), a militia associated with ISIL (Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant) claimed that on May 7 it launched an attack on a military position in Bunduguya near the Ugandan border. The propaganda release added that the attackers fought for ISIL’s “Central Africa Province affiliate,” the Islamic State Central African Province (ISCAP).  Congolese authorities said the attack occurred and the ADF rebel group was responsible. This is the third time since April 18 ISIL has claimed responsibility for an attack in the region.
Two escaped prisoners accused of killing two UN investigators were recaptured by police. The men escaped on May 7 from a prison in southwest Congo (Kananga). A third prisoner being held on murder charges did not escape, despite reports that he had.
May 6, 2019: In eastern Congo (North Kivu province), over 12,000 people have fled to areas near the Uganda border to escape armed attacks elsewhere in the province. Ongoing military operations have made it difficult to provide humanitarian aid for the IDPs.  Some aid has been routed through Uganda.
May 5, 2019: Rwanda officially buried (reinterred in most cases) 84,437 victims of the 1994 genocide. The burial took place in the Nyanza Genocide Memorial in the capital, Kigali.
May 4, 2019: China has agreed to let the Republic of Congo (Brazzaville) restructure its debt. It is believed Congo-Brazzaville owes China and Chinese entities over nine billion dollars. International agencies believe that is over a third of the country’s foreign debt.
May 3, 2019:  In Congo, the Ministry of Public Health reported that 1,510 confirmed cases of Ebola have been reported in North Kivu and Ituri provinces.
April 30, 2019: Congolese judicial officials have agreed to end a Kabila-era investigation into charges that opposition political leader Moise Katumbi hired mercenaries with the intent of toppling the government. Katumbi has been in exile. With the charges dropped, Katumbi will likely return to Congo in May.
April 29, 2019: Congo opposition leader Martin Fayulu called on his supporters to help remove president Felix Tshisekedi from office.
In Uganda, police arrested opposition political leader Robert Kyagulanyi. He is a member of parliament but also a well-known musician who performs under the name Bobi Wine. He was charged with conducting an “illegal assembly” (protest) of the government. He is a vocal opponent of Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni and is regarded as a likely presidential candidate in the next election.
April 25, 2019: In Central African Republic (CAR), the UN peacekeepers awarded the Senegalese Attack Helicopter Unit a UN medal for professionalism and “laudable work” in fulfilling the peacekeeper's mandate. The Senegalese Attack Helicopter Unit conducted reconnaissance and intelligence missions “and air strikes when necessary” which contributed to protecting CAR civilians and UN peacekeepers.
April 24, 2019: In Congo, the UN peacekeeping force will soon face another round of personnel and funding cuts. The UN is finalizing a new peacekeeping budget which goes into effect July 1. Some details are known, mainly that 764 civilian jobs will be eliminated. Most of these jobs are held by Congolese citizens. Eight UN regional offices will be closed.
April 19, 2019: In eastern Congo (North Kivu province), militiamen armed with machetes launched another attack on an Ebola Treatment Center clinic in Butembo. The attack killed a WHO epidemiologist working with the facility. Police killed one attacker and arrested five others.
April 18, 2019: In eastern Congo (North Kivu province), ADF attacked an army base leaving three soldiers dead and five wounded.
April 17, 2019: A German court announced that Rwandan Ignace Murwanashyaka, a former senior leader of the notorious FDLR (Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda) rebel group, died in prison while awaiting a new trial on war crimes charges.  He had been in poor health. The charges he faced stem from FDLR attacks in eastern Congo in 2009. His original conviction was overturned in 2018 and the court ordered a new trial. Murwanashyaka was nominally president of the FDLR.
April 16, 2019: In Congo, president Felix Tshisekedi declared that he and his government want to join the U.S.-led global coalition battling ISIL. Tshisekedi said that ISIL has ties to the ADF jihadist terror group which since the mid-1990s has launched attacks in eastern Congo. There are rumors that the ADF has offered to help Islamic State fighters slip into central Africa. UN peacekeepers estimate that since 2014 terrorists and rogue militias have killed over 1,000 people in and around the city of Beni in North Kivu. UN officials believe that ADF terrorists are responsible for the bulk of the murders.
Also on April 16, while visiting Beni, Tshisekedi called the current Ebola epidemic the worst one to ever strike Congo. He urged residents of North Kivu and Ituri provinces to trust health workers and understand the “it is not an imaginary disease.”  Tshisekedi said that there is a lot of misinformation, some of it spread by community leaders. He said that if everyone follows health worker instructions “in two or three months Ebola will be finished.”
April 15, 2019: Russia announced it will deploy up to 30 military personnel to the Central African Republic to serve with the UN’s peacekeeping mission. The contingent will include military observers and communications specialists. Russia already has a training base in Bangui with several hundred soldiers who are training CAR security personnel.
April 14, 2019: The UN (WHO) announced that the Ebola epidemic in eastern Congo does not yet warrant a “global emergency declaration.” But new cases are appearing in North Kivu and Ituri provinces. With 1,206 confirmed deaths, the current epidemic is now the second deadliest Ebola epidemic in history. Ebola isn't the only epidemic afflicting central Africa. The Republic of Congo (Brazzaville) is confronting a Chikungunya epidemic. The disease first appeared in January. So far the disease has afflicted over 4,000 people.
April 12, 2019: In eastern Congo (South Kivu province), soldiers killed 36 Burundian rebel fighters in two separate operations.  The largest clashes occurred April 6 and April 8. Three soldiers died in the battles.  The Burundian fighters belonged to the FNL (National Liberation Forces) and FOREBU (Burundian Republican Forces) rebel groups. Both are predominantly Hutu organizations. It is believed senior FNL commander Aloyse Zabampema was wounded in one of the firefights.
April 9, 2019: In Congo, president Felix Tshisekedi continues to have trouble with Joseph Kabila, his predecessor. Kabila wants Tshisekedi to appoint his close ally, Albert Yuma, as chairman of Gecamines (Congo’s national mining company). So far Tshisekedi has refused. He regards Yuma as “compromised”—and he is. Yuma has been accused of corruption involving several state ministries. Control of Gecamines goes a long way to controlling Congo’s valuable mining industry. Kabila would continue to have an extraordinary influence on contracts and potentially access to Gecamines coffers.


Logging In
Previous Post
Next Post
Copyright © 2024StrategyPage. All Rights Reserved. StrategyWorld.com 1998 - 2024 StrategyWorld.com. All rights Reserved. StrategyWorld.com, StrategyPage.com, FYEO, For Your Eyes Only and Al Nofi's CIC are all trademarks of StrategyWorld.com
X
Help Keep Us From Drying Up
We need your help! Oursubscriptionbase has slowly been dwindling.
Each month we count on yourcontributions.You can support us in the following ways:

Title: 
	Congo: Fake Disease A Real Killer

ColombiaHaitiMexico
AfghanistanChinaCentral AsiaIndia-PakistanIndonesiaKoreaMyanmarNepalPhilippinesMicronesiaSri LankaThailand
BalkansRussia
IranIraqIsraelSyriaIsraelTurkeyYemen
AlgeriaEgyptLibyaSudan
AngolaChadCongoCongoBrazzavilleEthiopiaGuineaIvoryCoastLiberiaMaliNigeriaRwanda & BurundiSierra LeoneSomaliaUganda
Potential HotspotsTerrorismTop Ten ConflictsWar Updates
Next:MURPHY'S LAW: The MiG On MiG Secret
May 13, 2019:The Congo governments and the UN (WHO) Ebola virus epidemic containment effort in eastern Congo has been generally successful.  So far confirmed cases have been confined to North Kivu and Ituri provinces. However, the provinces are large and populous and the epidemic has not abated.  Moreover, attacks by violent militias have damaged clinics and disrupted logistical support for medical aid agencies. The ADF (Allied Democratic Forces) Islamist rebel group is likely responsible for some of the worst attacks but local Mai-Mai militias and other armed groups have also launched attacks. The city of Butembo is a frequent target of attacks and has been the scene of several firefights pitting soldiers and police against militia fighters. Local authorities in Butembo report the militia fighters motives for launching attacks are not clear, but banditry is a possibility.
The eastern Congo epidemic officially began August 1, 2018, so it has lasted ten months. In the last 40 years, Congo has had ten known Ebola virus epidemics and, statistically, the current epidemic is the worst in terms of confirmed cases and deaths. Over 1,600 cases have been confirmed, though higher figures (1,800 to 2,000) may be more accurate. The eastern Congo epidemic has killed over 1,300 people. International aid agencies believe the eastern Congo epidemic is the second-deadliest in recorded history.  It is surpassed only by the 2013-2016 outbreak in West Africa, in which more than 28,000 cases were reported and at least 11,300 people died.
In mid-April WHO announced that the eastern Congo epidemic did not yet warrant a “global emergency declaration.” However, new cases continue to appear. In the last ten days, WHO and the UN Security Council have called for more vigorous efforts and additional resources (to include medical personnel)  to contain the virus, keep it from spreading to neighboring countries and ultimately end the outbreak. Uganda is particularly worried that Congolese fleeing violence will seek refuge in Uganda and some of the refugees will have the virus. The UN and aid agencies have demanded better security for humanitarian workers and healthcare facilities, particularly the Ebola Treatment Centers (ETCs) in North Kivu and Ituri.
The truth is, political and cultural issues also impede medical services. Many eastern Congolese do not trust the national government. The pervasive corruption of the government led by former president Joseph Kabila is one good reason. Some residents doubt western medicine and have turned to “faith healers” and “folk doctors.” Medical workers and Congolese political leaders are trying to convince the doubters to get vaccinations and help identify people who have contracted the disease. (Austin Bay)
May 10, 2019: The fraudulent December 2018 presidential vote count has not been forgotten.. Former presidential candidate Martin Fayulu continues to claim the December presidential election was stolen and he has evidence that he got over 59 percent of the popular vote.  In several recent interviews he has described himself as “the president-elect” and his tone is measured, not bitter. He has also discussed with journalists a proposal to correct the fraud: Congo should conduct another election in “12 to 18 months.” Fayulu argues that former president Joseph Kabila will eventually undermine President Felix Tshisekedi and this will lead to another national crisis.  To paraphrase, Kabila will never let another Congolese leader succeed where “he failed.” Best to conduct a new and clean election. Fayulu also openly discusses “the agreement” (the deal) that Tshisekedi accepted in order to be declared the election winner. According to Fayulu, Kabila demanded Tshisekedi give him (Kabila) control of Congo’s economic bureaucracies (mining and finance).  Kabila also has loyalists in the security services.  (Austin Bay)
May 8, 2019: In eastern Congo (North Kivu province), a Mai-Mai militia launched another attack in Butembo. Observers reported the attack specifically targeted an Ebola Treatment Center. The militia fighters withdrew after exchanging fire with security forces.
In eastern Congo (North Kivu province), a militia associated with ISIL (Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant) claimed that on May 7 it launched an attack on a military position in Bunduguya near the Ugandan border. The propaganda release added that the attackers fought for ISIL’s “Central Africa Province affiliate,” the Islamic State Central African Province (ISCAP).  Congolese authorities said the attack occurred and the ADF rebel group was responsible. This is the third time since April 18 ISIL has claimed responsibility for an attack in the region.
Two escaped prisoners accused of killing two UN investigators were recaptured by police. The men escaped on May 7 from a prison in southwest Congo (Kananga). A third prisoner being held on murder charges did not escape, despite reports that he had.
May 6, 2019: In eastern Congo (North Kivu province), over 12,000 people have fled to areas near the Uganda border to escape armed attacks elsewhere in the province. Ongoing military operations have made it difficult to provide humanitarian aid for the IDPs.  Some aid has been routed through Uganda.
May 5, 2019: Rwanda officially buried (reinterred in most cases) 84,437 victims of the 1994 genocide. The burial took place in the Nyanza Genocide Memorial in the capital, Kigali.
May 4, 2019: China has agreed to let the Republic of Congo (Brazzaville) restructure its debt. It is believed Congo-Brazzaville owes China and Chinese entities over nine billion dollars. International agencies believe that is over a third of the country’s foreign debt.
May 3, 2019:  In Congo, the Ministry of Public Health reported that 1,510 confirmed cases of Ebola have been reported in North Kivu and Ituri provinces.
April 30, 2019: Congolese judicial officials have agreed to end a Kabila-era investigation into charges that opposition political leader Moise Katumbi hired mercenaries with the intent of toppling the government. Katumbi has been in exile. With the charges dropped, Katumbi will likely return to Congo in May.
April 29, 2019: Congo opposition leader Martin Fayulu called on his supporters to help remove president Felix Tshisekedi from office.
In Uganda, police arrested opposition political leader Robert Kyagulanyi. He is a member of parliament but also a well-known musician who performs under the name Bobi Wine. He was charged with conducting an “illegal assembly” (protest) of the government. He is a vocal opponent of Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni and is regarded as a likely presidential candidate in the next election.
April 25, 2019: In Central African Republic (CAR), the UN peacekeepers awarded the Senegalese Attack Helicopter Unit a UN medal for professionalism and “laudable work” in fulfilling the peacekeeper's mandate. The Senegalese Attack Helicopter Unit conducted reconnaissance and intelligence missions “and air strikes when necessary” which contributed to protecting CAR civilians and UN peacekeepers.
April 24, 2019: In Congo, the UN peacekeeping force will soon face another round of personnel and funding cuts. The UN is finalizing a new peacekeeping budget which goes into effect July 1. Some details are known, mainly that 764 civilian jobs will be eliminated. Most of these jobs are held by Congolese citizens. Eight UN regional offices will be closed.
April 19, 2019: In eastern Congo (North Kivu province), militiamen armed with machetes launched another attack on an Ebola Treatment Center clinic in Butembo. The attack killed a WHO epidemiologist working with the facility. Police killed one attacker and arrested five others.
April 18, 2019: In eastern Congo (North Kivu province), ADF attacked an army base leaving three soldiers dead and five wounded.
April 17, 2019: A German court announced that Rwandan Ignace Murwanashyaka, a former senior leader of the notorious FDLR (Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda) rebel group, died in prison while awaiting a new trial on war crimes charges.  He had been in poor health. The charges he faced stem from FDLR attacks in eastern Congo in 2009. His original conviction was overturned in 2018 and the court ordered a new trial. Murwanashyaka was nominally president of the FDLR.
April 16, 2019: In Congo, president Felix Tshisekedi declared that he and his government want to join the U.S.-led global coalition battling ISIL. Tshisekedi said that ISIL has ties to the ADF jihadist terror group which since the mid-1990s has launched attacks in eastern Congo. There are rumors that the ADF has offered to help Islamic State fighters slip into central Africa. UN peacekeepers estimate that since 2014 terrorists and rogue militias have killed over 1,000 people in and around the city of Beni in North Kivu. UN officials believe that ADF terrorists are responsible for the bulk of the murders.
Also on April 16, while visiting Beni, Tshisekedi called the current Ebola epidemic the worst one to ever strike Congo. He urged residents of North Kivu and Ituri provinces to trust health workers and understand the “it is not an imaginary disease.”  Tshisekedi said that there is a lot of misinformation, some of it spread by community leaders. He said that if everyone follows health worker instructions “in two or three months Ebola will be finished.”
April 15, 2019: Russia announced it will deploy up to 30 military personnel to the Central African Republic to serve with the UN’s peacekeeping mission. The contingent will include military observers and communications specialists. Russia already has a training base in Bangui with several hundred soldiers who are training CAR security personnel.
April 14, 2019: The UN (WHO) announced that the Ebola epidemic in eastern Congo does not yet warrant a “global emergency declaration.” But new cases are appearing in North Kivu and Ituri provinces. With 1,206 confirmed deaths, the current epidemic is now the second deadliest Ebola epidemic in history. Ebola isn't the only epidemic afflicting central Africa. The Republic of Congo (Brazzaville) is confronting a Chikungunya epidemic. The disease first appeared in January. So far the disease has afflicted over 4,000 people.
April 12, 2019: In eastern Congo (South Kivu province), soldiers killed 36 Burundian rebel fighters in two separate operations.  The largest clashes occurred April 6 and April 8. Three soldiers died in the battles.  The Burundian fighters belonged to the FNL (National Liberation Forces) and FOREBU (Burundian Republican Forces) rebel groups. Both are predominantly Hutu organizations. It is believed senior FNL commander Aloyse Zabampema was wounded in one of the firefights.
April 9, 2019: In Congo, president Felix Tshisekedi continues to have trouble with Joseph Kabila, his predecessor. Kabila wants Tshisekedi to appoint his close ally, Albert Yuma, as chairman of Gecamines (Congo’s national mining company). So far Tshisekedi has refused. He regards Yuma as “compromised”—and he is. Yuma has been accused of corruption involving several state ministries. Control of Gecamines goes a long way to controlling Congo’s valuable mining industry. Kabila would continue to have an extraordinary influence on contracts and potentially access to Gecamines coffers.


Logging In
Previous Post
Next Post
Copyright © 2024StrategyPage. All Rights Reserved. StrategyWorld.com 1998 - 2024 StrategyWorld.com. All rights Reserved. StrategyWorld.com, StrategyPage.com, FYEO, For Your Eyes Only and Al Nofi's CIC are all trademarks of StrategyWorld.com
X
Help Keep Us From Drying Up
We need your help! Oursubscriptionbase has slowly been dwindling.
Each month we count on yourcontributions.You can support us in the following ways:

Title: 
	Congo: Fake Disease A Real Killer

ColombiaHaitiMexico
AfghanistanChinaCentral AsiaIndia-PakistanIndonesiaKoreaMyanmarNepalPhilippinesMicronesiaSri LankaThailand
BalkansRussia
IranIraqIsraelSyriaIsraelTurkeyYemen
AlgeriaEgyptLibyaSudan
AngolaChadCongoCongoBrazzavilleEthiopiaGuineaIvoryCoastLiberiaMaliNigeriaRwanda & BurundiSierra LeoneSomaliaUganda
Potential HotspotsTerrorismTop Ten ConflictsWar Updates
Next:MURPHY'S LAW: The MiG On MiG Secret
May 13, 2019:The Congo governments and the UN (WHO) Ebola virus epidemic containment effort in eastern Congo has been generally successful.  So far confirmed cases have been confined to North Kivu and Ituri provinces. However, the provinces are large and populous and the epidemic has not abated.  Moreover, attacks by violent militias have damaged clinics and disrupted logistical support for medical aid agencies. The ADF (Allied Democratic Forces) Islamist rebel group is likely responsible for some of the worst attacks but local Mai-Mai militias and other armed groups have also launched attacks. The city of Butembo is a frequent target of attacks and has been the scene of several firefights pitting soldiers and police against militia fighters. Local authorities in Butembo report the militia fighters motives for launching attacks are not clear, but banditry is a possibility.
The eastern Congo epidemic officially began August 1, 2018, so it has lasted ten months. In the last 40 years, Congo has had ten known Ebola virus epidemics and, statistically, the current epidemic is the worst in terms of confirmed cases and deaths. Over 1,600 cases have been confirmed, though higher figures (1,800 to 2,000) may be more accurate. The eastern Congo epidemic has killed over 1,300 people. International aid agencies believe the eastern Congo epidemic is the second-deadliest in recorded history.  It is surpassed only by the 2013-2016 outbreak in West Africa, in which more than 28,000 cases were reported and at least 11,300 people died.
In mid-April WHO announced that the eastern Congo epidemic did not yet warrant a “global emergency declaration.” However, new cases continue to appear. In the last ten days, WHO and the UN Security Council have called for more vigorous efforts and additional resources (to include medical personnel)  to contain the virus, keep it from spreading to neighboring countries and ultimately end the outbreak. Uganda is particularly worried that Congolese fleeing violence will seek refuge in Uganda and some of the refugees will have the virus. The UN and aid agencies have demanded better security for humanitarian workers and healthcare facilities, particularly the Ebola Treatment Centers (ETCs) in North Kivu and Ituri.
The truth is, political and cultural issues also impede medical services. Many eastern Congolese do not trust the national government. The pervasive corruption of the government led by former president Joseph Kabila is one good reason. Some residents doubt western medicine and have turned to “faith healers” and “folk doctors.” Medical workers and Congolese political leaders are trying to convince the doubters to get vaccinations and help identify people who have contracted the disease. (Austin Bay)
May 10, 2019: The fraudulent December 2018 presidential vote count has not been forgotten.. Former presidential candidate Martin Fayulu continues to claim the December presidential election was stolen and he has evidence that he got over 59 percent of the popular vote.  In several recent interviews he has described himself as “the president-elect” and his tone is measured, not bitter. He has also discussed with journalists a proposal to correct the fraud: Congo should conduct another election in “12 to 18 months.” Fayulu argues that former president Joseph Kabila will eventually undermine President Felix Tshisekedi and this will lead to another national crisis.  To paraphrase, Kabila will never let another Congolese leader succeed where “he failed.” Best to conduct a new and clean election. Fayulu also openly discusses “the agreement” (the deal) that Tshisekedi accepted in order to be declared the election winner. According to Fayulu, Kabila demanded Tshisekedi give him (Kabila) control of Congo’s economic bureaucracies (mining and finance).  Kabila also has loyalists in the security services.  (Austin Bay)
May 8, 2019: In eastern Congo (North Kivu province), a Mai-Mai militia launched another attack in Butembo. Observers reported the attack specifically targeted an Ebola Treatment Center. The militia fighters withdrew after exchanging fire with security forces.
In eastern Congo (North Kivu province), a militia associated with ISIL (Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant) claimed that on May 7 it launched an attack on a military position in Bunduguya near the Ugandan border. The propaganda release added that the attackers fought for ISIL’s “Central Africa Province affiliate,” the Islamic State Central African Province (ISCAP).  Congolese authorities said the attack occurred and the ADF rebel group was responsible. This is the third time since April 18 ISIL has claimed responsibility for an attack in the region.
Two escaped prisoners accused of killing two UN investigators were recaptured by police. The men escaped on May 7 from a prison in southwest Congo (Kananga). A third prisoner being held on murder charges did not escape, despite reports that he had.
May 6, 2019: In eastern Congo (North Kivu province), over 12,000 people have fled to areas near the Uganda border to escape armed attacks elsewhere in the province. Ongoing military operations have made it difficult to provide humanitarian aid for the IDPs.  Some aid has been routed through Uganda.
May 5, 2019: Rwanda officially buried (reinterred in most cases) 84,437 victims of the 1994 genocide. The burial took place in the Nyanza Genocide Memorial in the capital, Kigali.
May 4, 2019: China has agreed to let the Republic of Congo (Brazzaville) restructure its debt. It is believed Congo-Brazzaville owes China and Chinese entities over nine billion dollars. International agencies believe that is over a third of the country’s foreign debt.
May 3, 2019:  In Congo, the Ministry of Public Health reported that 1,510 confirmed cases of Ebola have been reported in North Kivu and Ituri provinces.
April 30, 2019: Congolese judicial officials have agreed to end a Kabila-era investigation into charges that opposition political leader Moise Katumbi hired mercenaries with the intent of toppling the government. Katumbi has been in exile. With the charges dropped, Katumbi will likely return to Congo in May.
April 29, 2019: Congo opposition leader Martin Fayulu called on his supporters to help remove president Felix Tshisekedi from office.
In Uganda, police arrested opposition political leader Robert Kyagulanyi. He is a member of parliament but also a well-known musician who performs under the name Bobi Wine. He was charged with conducting an “illegal assembly” (protest) of the government. He is a vocal opponent of Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni and is regarded as a likely presidential candidate in the next election.
April 25, 2019: In Central African Republic (CAR), the UN peacekeepers awarded the Senegalese Attack Helicopter Unit a UN medal for professionalism and “laudable work” in fulfilling the peacekeeper's mandate. The Senegalese Attack Helicopter Unit conducted reconnaissance and intelligence missions “and air strikes when necessary” which contributed to protecting CAR civilians and UN peacekeepers.
April 24, 2019: In Congo, the UN peacekeeping force will soon face another round of personnel and funding cuts. The UN is finalizing a new peacekeeping budget which goes into effect July 1. Some details are known, mainly that 764 civilian jobs will be eliminated. Most of these jobs are held by Congolese citizens. Eight UN regional offices will be closed.
April 19, 2019: In eastern Congo (North Kivu province), militiamen armed with machetes launched another attack on an Ebola Treatment Center clinic in Butembo. The attack killed a WHO epidemiologist working with the facility. Police killed one attacker and arrested five others.
April 18, 2019: In eastern Congo (North Kivu province), ADF attacked an army base leaving three soldiers dead and five wounded.
April 17, 2019: A German court announced that Rwandan Ignace Murwanashyaka, a former senior leader of the notorious FDLR (Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda) rebel group, died in prison while awaiting a new trial on war crimes charges.  He had been in poor health. The charges he faced stem from FDLR attacks in eastern Congo in 2009. His original conviction was overturned in 2018 and the court ordered a new trial. Murwanashyaka was nominally president of the FDLR.
April 16, 2019: In Congo, president Felix Tshisekedi declared that he and his government want to join the U.S.-led global coalition battling ISIL. Tshisekedi said that ISIL has ties to the ADF jihadist terror group which since the mid-1990s has launched attacks in eastern Congo. There are rumors that the ADF has offered to help Islamic State fighters slip into central Africa. UN peacekeepers estimate that since 2014 terrorists and rogue militias have killed over 1,000 people in and around the city of Beni in North Kivu. UN officials believe that ADF terrorists are responsible for the bulk of the murders.
Also on April 16, while visiting Beni, Tshisekedi called the current Ebola epidemic the worst one to ever strike Congo. He urged residents of North Kivu and Ituri provinces to trust health workers and understand the “it is not an imaginary disease.”  Tshisekedi said that there is a lot of misinformation, some of it spread by community leaders. He said that if everyone follows health worker instructions “in two or three months Ebola will be finished.”
April 15, 2019: Russia announced it will deploy up to 30 military personnel to the Central African Republic to serve with the UN’s peacekeeping mission. The contingent will include military observers and communications specialists. Russia already has a training base in Bangui with several hundred soldiers who are training CAR security personnel.
April 14, 2019: The UN (WHO) announced that the Ebola epidemic in eastern Congo does not yet warrant a “global emergency declaration.” But new cases are appearing in North Kivu and Ituri provinces. With 1,206 confirmed deaths, the current epidemic is now the second deadliest Ebola epidemic in history. Ebola isn't the only epidemic afflicting central Africa. The Republic of Congo (Brazzaville) is confronting a Chikungunya epidemic. The disease first appeared in January. So far the disease has afflicted over 4,000 people.
April 12, 2019: In eastern Congo (South Kivu province), soldiers killed 36 Burundian rebel fighters in two separate operations.  The largest clashes occurred April 6 and April 8. Three soldiers died in the battles.  The Burundian fighters belonged to the FNL (National Liberation Forces) and FOREBU (Burundian Republican Forces) rebel groups. Both are predominantly Hutu organizations. It is believed senior FNL commander Aloyse Zabampema was wounded in one of the firefights.
April 9, 2019: In Congo, president Felix Tshisekedi continues to have trouble with Joseph Kabila, his predecessor. Kabila wants Tshisekedi to appoint his close ally, Albert Yuma, as chairman of Gecamines (Congo’s national mining company). So far Tshisekedi has refused. He regards Yuma as “compromised”—and he is. Yuma has been accused of corruption involving several state ministries. Control of Gecamines goes a long way to controlling Congo’s valuable mining industry. Kabila would continue to have an extraordinary influence on contracts and potentially access to Gecamines coffers.


Logging In
Previous Post
Next Post
Copyright © 2024StrategyPage. All Rights Reserved. StrategyWorld.com 1998 - 2024 StrategyWorld.com. All rights Reserved. StrategyWorld.com, StrategyPage.com, FYEO, For Your Eyes Only and Al Nofi's CIC are all trademarks of StrategyWorld.com
X
Help Keep Us From Drying Up
We need your help! Oursubscriptionbase has slowly been dwindling.
Each month we count on yourcontributions.You can support us in the following ways:

Title: DRC Ebola total climbs by 15 cases; vandals hit Katwa hospital | CIDRAP
World Bank / Vincent Tremeau/ Flickr cc
The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) saw no let-up on new Ebola cases and attacks on the response today, with 15 more illnesses reported along with a report of vandalism at a hospital in Katwa.
In other developments, South Korea today announced a plan to provide $500,000 in humanitarian aid for the Ebola response, and a group that analyzes humanitarian events warned that increasing attacks near the Ebola-hit DRC areas could displace more people and ease the spread of the disease.
The fifteen new cases were from seven different locations, including Alimbongo, a newly affected health zone in North Kivu province, the ministry said in its daily update. It added that an extensive investigation is under way to identify where the patient contracted the virus. The new cases increase the outbreak total to 1,720, and authorities are still investigating 293 suspected Ebola cases.
One of the new illnesses involves a health worker who was vaccinated less than 10 days ago, before the immune system can protect against the virus. So far, 102 health workers have been sickened in the outbreak.
Twelve more people died from Ebola, four in community settings and eight in Ebola treatment centers. The developments push the fatality count to 1,136.
The ministry also said the triage area at Katwa General Reference Hospital was vandalized by unknown assailants at 2 am this morning.
The ministry said the attackers threw rocks then set fire to some tarps.
Today's security incident follows an attempted militia assault yesterday on Katwa's Ebola treatment center—also in the early morning hours—that killed one of the attackers but caused no damage to the facility.
In a statement, South Korea said the $500,000 in cash assistance will help fund the response plan developed by the DRC's health ministry along with 15 international organizations, including the World Health Organization (WHO). It added that with DRC's outbreak pushing into its 10th month, the international community's engagement and support is all the more needed.
The donation isn't South Korea's first for Ebola. In 2014 the country sent a disaster relief team to help with West Africa's Ebola outbreak and in 2018 it provided $1.5 million to the WHO's emergency fund to help address Ebola in the DRC.
Since May, attacks and clashes between armed groups and security forces have displaced more than 12,000 people in North Kivu and Ituri provinces, which adds to more than 100,000 who were displaced from North Kivu province in April, according to an update today from ACAPS, a Norwegian nonprofit nongovernmental group that provides independent humanitarian analysis.
The group warned that attacks, especially by the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), have increased in recent months and are likely to spark more displacement and boost humanitarian needs in North Kivu province. And they note that the increased attacks come at a time when Ebola transmission is increasing.
Displacement in Ebola-affected territories could fuel the spread of the disease, including the possibility that some people may slip across the border to Uganda without screening, heightening the threat of spread to other countries.
ACAPS said that, although most Ebola cases are concentrated in the Katwa, Butembo, and Beni areas, some health zones that have received displaced people have reported some Ebola cases, such as Kayna health zone in North Ituri province. However, it notes that the short-term, localized displacements common in the eastern DRC make it hard to not only gauge the risk of spreading the disease but also assess the needs of communities.
See also:
May 14 DRCupdate
May 14 South Korea governmentstatement
May 14 ACAPSbriefing note
An impaired sense of smell could serve as both a potential marker of virus-induced brain damage and a marker of patients susceptible to brain damage.
A second study found good protection against hospitalization--although uneven uptake--among pregnant women.
US health officials are eying ways to reduce the spread of the virus over colder months and the holiday season.
During follow-up, 3% of patients with postvaccination myocarditis, 4% of those with post-COVID myocarditis, and 6% of those with the conventional type were readmitted for myopericarditis.
Cambodia, where an older H5N1 clade circulates in poultry, has now reported 18 human cases since early 2023.
The index is a step toward a tool that could someday be used to identify long COVID in children but is not ready for clinical use, the authors say.
The CDC has received reports of 11 imported cases and is warning pregnant travelers to affected regions about the risk of severe fetal complications.
Tularemia, or "rabbit fever," is an occupational risk for farmers, foresters, and veterinarians and is listed by the CDC as 1 of 6 high-priority bioterrorism agents.
Relative vaccine effectiveness was higher for the adjuvanted flu vaccine among older adults with multiple concurrent high-risk conditions.
The agency approved of the single-strain mRNA COVID-19 vaccines for people aged 12 and older and granted emergency use authorization for those aged 6 months to 11 years.
Help make CIDRAP's vital work possible
CIDRAP - Center for Infectious Disease Research & PolicyResearch and Innovation Office, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN
Email us
© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights Reserved.The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer
Research and Innovation Office|Contact U of M|Privacy Policy
Newsletter subscribe

Title: 
                            Milicianos secuestran a 40 personas en el este de República Democrática del Congo
Entérate a primera hora de todo lo que necesitas saber sobre el sector y acompaña tu primer café con una selección de contenidos y análisis.
Unas 40 personas han sido secuestradas en los dos últimos días por milicianos de lasFuerzas Democráticas Aliadas(ADF, por sus siglas en inglés) en Tsabi, en el este de República Democrática del Congo, muy cerca de la frontera con Uganda. Además, al menos seis personas han muerto, incluido un militar, en los últimos enfrentamientos.
Entre los secuestrados hayenfermeras de un centro de salud, según informa el portal de noticias congoleñoActualité, que cita fuentes locales. Testigos aseguran que los atacantes empleaban lenguas ugandesas.
"Es inaceptable que esta situación ocurra en una zona operativa donde se supone que los soldados de las FARDC (Ejército)deben proteger a la población", ha denunciado un diputado, Gratien Iracan, en declaraciones recogidas por Actualité. Iracan ha recordado los recientes incidentes en Kainama, enKivu Norte, y que "era bastante obvio que hostilidades se trasladarían a las localidades vecinas como Tshabi".
El miércoles y el jueves hubocombates en la regióny grupos de civiles huyeron de la zona, según Iracan, que subraya que estas noticias apuntan una expansión de la rebelión de las FDA prougandesas.
"Uno de los principales objetivos de estos ataques esprovocar un pánico generalizadopor el desplazamiento forzado de ciudadanos pacíficos. Los atacantes buscan liberar una gran área del territorio por causas que desconocemos, probablemente la conquista de tierras cultivables y la reorganización de actividades rebeldes", ha advertido.
Hemos bloqueado los comentarios de este contenido.
                        Sólo se mostrarán los mensajes moderados hasta ahora, pero no se podrán redactar nuevos comentarios.
Consulta los casos en los que lainformacion.com restringirá la posibilidad de dejar comentarios
La Información. Calle Canarias nº 49, Planta 1ª. Madrid, 28045, España
Síguenos también en:
La Información. Calle Canarias nº 49, Planta 1ª. Madrid, 28045, España
La Información. Calle Canarias nº 49, Planta 1ª. Madrid, 28045, España