Title: Congo used rebels against anti-Kabila protesters: HRW | The Peninsula Qatar



ARU, Democratic Republic of Congo: Authorities in the DR Congo hired rebel fighters to suppress civilians who protested against President Joseph Kabila, according to a Human Rights Watch report issued on Monday.The report said senior security force officers in the DRC had mobilized over 200 former M23 rebel fighters from neighboring countries to quash protests against President Joseph Kabila in December 2016."Congolese security forces along with recruited M23 fighters from Uganda and Rwanda killed at least 62 people and arrested hundreds more during country-wide protests between December 19 and 22, when Kabila refused to step down at the end of his constitutionally mandated two-term limit," said the report.Ida Sawyer, the HRW Central Africa director said in the report: “Covert operations to recruit fighters from an abusive armed group to suppress any resistance show how far President Kabila and his coterie are willing to go to stay in power. Congolese officials should end all unlawful use of force against protesters and allow peaceful political activities by activists and the political opposition."An official from the ruling presidential majority in DRC, Paul Kili, told Anadolu Agency that the allegations were false and were meant to tarnish Kabila. The presidential majority consists of an alliance of political parties that support the president.M23 militants made themselves known on March 23, 2012 when certain soldiers in the DRC rebelled against the government. UN investigators have accused Rwanda of backing the M23.Although Kabila's term of office expired in Dec. 2016, he refused to leave office saying elections could not take place because most voters had not been registered.This has sparked of protests in several parts of the country, in which according to Catholic church in the country, 3,000 have been killed and over 1.3 million displaced.
ARU, Democratic Republic of Congo: Authorities in the DR Congo hired rebel fighters to suppress civilians who protested against President Joseph Kabila, according to a Human Rights Watch report issued on Monday.
The report said senior security force officers in the DRC had mobilized over 200 former M23 rebel fighters from neighboring countries to quash protests against President Joseph Kabila in December 2016.
"Congolese security forces along with recruited M23 fighters from Uganda and Rwanda killed at least 62 people and arrested hundreds more during country-wide protests between December 19 and 22, when Kabila refused to step down at the end of his constitutionally mandated two-term limit," said the report.
Ida Sawyer, the HRW Central Africa director said in the report: “Covert operations to recruit fighters from an abusive armed group to suppress any resistance show how far President Kabila and his coterie are willing to go to stay in power. Congolese officials should end all unlawful use of force against protesters and allow peaceful political activities by activists and the political opposition."
An official from the ruling presidential majority in DRC, Paul Kili, told Anadolu Agency that the allegations were false and were meant to tarnish Kabila. The presidential majority consists of an alliance of political parties that support the president.
M23 militants made themselves known on March 23, 2012 when certain soldiers in the DRC rebelled against the government. UN investigators have accused Rwanda of backing the M23.
Although Kabila's term of office expired in Dec. 2016, he refused to leave office saying elections could not take place because most voters had not been registered.
This has sparked of protests in several parts of the country, in which according to Catholic church in the country, 3,000 have been killed and over 1.3 million displaced.





Check all issues & supplements


Title: DRC recruited ex-rebels to suppress protests: HRW – CounterVortex
Resisting Humanity's Downward Spiral
The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) government recruited formerM23rebel fighters to protectPresident Joseph Kabilaafter protests broke out last December over his refusal to step down at the end of his constitutionally mandated two terms,Human Rights Watch(HRW)reportedDec. 5. During December of last year, at least 62 people were killed and hundreds were arrested. The M23 fighters were granted authority to use lethal force. Many journalists were also detained to keep them from reporting about the events taking place. According to the report, rebel forces have long been recruited into the Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of Congo (FARDC), without formal training or extensive vetting. The forces in question were deserters from the group, who were initially recruited from Rwanda and Uganda. The FARDC have themselves been criticized for various human rights violations.

The M23 took up arms against the DRC government in 2012 and was defeated in 2013. In 2016, Kabila began actively recruiting former M23 fighters following his refusal to step down, amid fears of distrust amongst his forces, according to the report.
After the December protests, Kabila agreed to a Catholic Church-mediated power-sharing agreement with the opposition, pledging that presidential elections would be held by the end of 2017, and that Kabila himself would not run. However, elections were not held, and in October, the DRC's electoral commission published a calendar with the elections set for the end of 2018. The opposition calls this is another delaying tactic to keep Kabila in power. The delay prompted furtherviolent protests. October also saw thearrest of 30 opposition party members. The opposition continues to call for Kabila to step down by the end of this year.
FromJurist, Dec. 5. Used with permission.
UN peacekeepers killed in Congo attack
At least 14 UN peacekeepers have been killed and 53 wounded in an attack in the east of the Democratic Republic of Congo. The UN'sMONUSCOmission said the peacekeepers were attacked by suspected rebels of the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) in North Kivu province. Five Congolese soldiers also died. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said it was the worst attack on peacekeepers in recent history and amounted to a "war crime." (BBC News)
New fighting in Congo’s Ituri province
More than 30 have been killed in a new outbreak of what is being portrayed as ethnic violence in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Fighting reportedly broke out between theHema and Lenducommunities in the northeastern province of Ituri. (BBC News)











We depend on our readers.
Please support us:

Title: Rights Group: Congo Government Hired Foreign Mercenaries to Kill Protesters - 04.12.2017, Sputnik International
The 69-page report, entitled "'Special Mission': Recruitment of M23 Rebels to Suppress Protests in the Democratic Republic of Congo," details how Congolese security forces brought in M23 fighters from neighboring Rwanda and Uganda to assist in cracking down on protesters.
HRW interviewed 120 people, including victims of the crackdown, their families, witnesses, activists, government and security officials and 21 M23 members.
"Covert operations to recruit fighters from an abusive armed group to suppress any resistance show how far President Kabila and his coterie are willing to go to stay in power," said Ida Sawyer, HRW's director for Central Africa.
"Congolese officials should end all unlawful use of force against protesters and allow peaceful political activities by activists and the political opposition."
The M23 fighters were reportedly integrated with security forces and deployed to the major cities of the DRC, including the capital city of Kinshasa. They were explicitly ordered to use lethal force on protesters by Congolese military officers.
The protests broke out in September 2016 after Kabila announced his candidacy for a third term — which violates the DRC constitution. His second term should have ended in December 2016, but he remains in power.
In early November, US ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley visited the Democratic Republic of Congo and called on Kabila and the Independent National Electoral Commission (CENI) to uphold their promise after the protests to hold elections in 2018.
"Kabila's refusal to step down as the constitution requires has plunged Congo into a political, economic, and human rights crisis that could have devastating consequences for the region," Sawyer said. "To prevent an already explosive situation from worsening, Congo's regional and international partners should press Kabila to step down and allow for credible, peaceful elections."
Already CENI has pushed the election back from early 2018 to the end of the year. They've cited numerous "constraints" that could further delay the election and stretch out Kabila's reign even further. Kabila's opponents have denounced CENI as scheming to unconstitutionally stretch out Kabila's presidency, and called for a transitional government without Kabila to be formed.
Ironically, the defeat of M23 is seen as one of the main successes of the Kabila administration. M23 was alleged to have been funded and organized by Rwanda, and in late 2012 they seized control over the city of Goma, the provincial capital of North Kivu and a major city. The Congolese military defeated them after a year of fighting that left almost 1,500 dead, and M23 surrendered.

Title: DRC recruited M23 rebels to crush anti-Kabila protests -HRW [The Morning Call] | Africanews
Please select your experience
Copy/paste the script below
OTHER WIDGETS
The Human Rights Watch released a report on Monday accusing senior security officials in the Democratic Republic of Congo of mobilizing over 200 former M23 rebel fighters from Uganda and Rwanda to suppress the December 2016 demonstrations.
The protests erupted when Kabila refused to step down at the end of his term in power.


Title: HRW: DRC recruited M23 to crush anti-Kabila protests | News | Al Jazeera
Rights group says DR Congo drafted ex-M23 fighters last year to crush protests against President Joseph Kabila.
At least 62 people were killed assecurity forces in theDemocratic Republic of Congo(DRC) recruited former rebel fighters to quash protests against PresidentJoseph Kabilalast year, a rights group claims.
In areporton Monday, Human Rights Watch (HRW) said more than 200 formerM23 fighterswere mobilised, during country-wide protests that erupted after Kabila refused to step down at the end of his term.




As well as killing scores of people, Congolese security forces and M23 fighters arrested hundreds more between December 19-22, 2016, HRW said.
The accusations come amid renewed fears that DRC could witness a repeat of violence, as Kabila has delayed a new vote until December 2018.
Ida Sawyer, Central Africa director at HRW, said the government’s covert operations to recruit fighters “from an abusive armed group to suppress any resistance show how far President Kabila and his coterie are willing to go to stay in power”.
HRW said its findings were based on more than 120 interviews, including 21 M23 fighters, commanders and political leaders.
The mainly Tutsi ethnic group was the largest of dozens of armed groups in eastern Congo, until its defeat by Congolese and UN forces in November 2013. Hundreds of fighters fled, taking refuge inRwandaand Uganda.
Many live in military camps there, awaiting amnesties promised under a peace deal.
Between October and December 2016, as protests against Kabila escalated, senior Congolese officers drafted the former rebels, gave them new uniforms and weapons and deployed them to Congo’s main cities, Kinshasa, Lubumbashi, and Goma.
“To protect the president and quash protests, the M23 fighters were given explicit orders to use lethal force, including at ‘point-blank range’ if necessary,” HRW said.
The rights group renewed calls on the international community for “sustained, targeted and well-coordinated pressure” on Kabila to step down and allow for credible and peaceful elections.
Kabila had taken power after his father was assassinated in 2001, and was elected in 2006 and 2011.
According to the constitution, Kabila cannot seek a third term.









Follow Al Jazeera English:

Title: Actualités - MwcNews.net
Soyez au plus près de l’actualité en retrouvant tous les articles d’actualités en France mais également dans le monde entier.
La rentrée scolaire approche à grands pas et il est temps de penser à équiper votre petit écolier en herbe. Parmi les indispensables pour sa[…]
La Tour Eiffel, monument emblématique de la capitale française, est un véritable symbole de l’ingénierie et de l’innovation architecturale du 19ème siècle. Depuis son inauguration[…]
Le vertige est une sensation déroutante et désagréable que la plupart des gens ont déjà éprouvée au moins une fois dans leur vie. Cette sensation[…]
Le bâillement, cette réaction spontanée et souvent irrépressible qui nous touche tous, semble a priori anodin. Pourtant, derrière cet acte banal se cachent de nombreuses[…]
Le muguet, cette petite fleur blanche et délicate, est devenu au fil des siècles l’un des symboles les plus marquants du 1er mai en France.[…]
Le rougissement est un phénomène bien connu et probablement vécu par chacun d’entre nous. Toutefois, il reste un mystère pour beaucoup, car il peut être[…]
L’existence d’un trou dans la couche d’ozone est un phénomène qui inquiète depuis plusieurs décennies les scientifiques, les politiques et les citoyens du monde entier.[…]
Les azalées sont des plantes ornementales très appréciées pour leur floraison spectaculaire et leur feuillage persistant. Elles sont souvent associées à la beauté et à[…]
Dans un monde où la sollicitation permanente et les distractions numériques sont devenues la norme, réussir à se concentrer sur une tâche pendant une longue[…]
Vous souhaitez optimiser votre performance en course à pied et développer votre endurance ? Vous êtes au bon endroit ! Cet article vous propose des[…]
Le haut potentiel intellectuel, connu sous le nom de douance, est un sujet qui suscite de plus en plus d’intérêt. Souvent associé à l’intelligence, ce[…]
Vous cherchez des solutions pour améliorer la qualité de l’eau du robinet que vous consommez au quotidien ? Vous êtes au bon endroit ! Nous[…]
Vous rêvez de savourer des citrons frais et juteux, directement cueillis sur votre propre citronnier ? Vous souhaitez apporter une touche de verdure et d’exotisme[…]
Vous êtes à la recherche de la pièce phare qui fera toute la différence dans votre garde-robe cette saison ? Ne cherchez plus, la combinaison[…]
L’agriculture moderne est en constante évolution et recherche des solutions toujours plus efficaces pour répondre aux défis environnementaux et économiques. Parmi les outils indispensables dont[…]
Dans un monde en perpétuel mouvement et en constante évolution, il est parfois difficile de se retrouver et de profiter pleinement des bienfaits de notre[…]
Le monde du sport connaît aujourd’hui une révolution avec l’ouverture officielle de Megasports97, un média en ligne dédié aux passionnés et amateurs de sport de[…]
Toulouse, la ville rose, est un véritable carrefour culturel et artistique qui ne cesse de séduire et d’inspirer ses habitants et ses visiteurs. Parmi les[…]
Les blattes ou cafards (Blatta orientalis) sont des insectes qui appartiennent à la famille des Blattoptéra. Ils se caractérisent par leur forme allongée, leurs ailes[…]
Loin d’être une mince affaire, chercher un cadeau pour lui ou pour elle est toujours un exercice périlleux. Pour offrir un cadeau beauté à un[…]
La pompe à chaleur est un système de chauffage écologique et ingénieux. Elle trouve son énergie dans la nature (eau, air, terre) et la transforme[…]
Un portail électrique est un moyen efficace d’augmenter la sécurité de la maison. Grâce à ses caractéristiques, il peut empêcher quiconque d’accéder sans autorisation à[…]
Acheter une bonne armoire forte est une solution contre les vols, les incendies, protéger des documents contre l’humidité, etc. Pour une sécurité maximale, il vous[…]
La maîtrise des outils informatiques en l’occurrence de certains logiciels comme l’Excel est très importante dans la vie de tout professionnel. Très utile aussi bien[…]
Derrière une entreprise se cache une diversité d’informations plus ou moins importantes. Ces informations peuvent alors intéresser un collaborateur, un client, une personne à la[…]
Avez-vous envie de rompre avec la monotonie qui s’est installée dans votre vie sexuelle ? Si en tant que couple, vous cherchez des idées pour[…]
Les fêtes de fin d’année sont bientôt là, nous apportant comme tous les ans, de beaux moments de partage, en famille et entre amis. C’est[…]
Depuis quelques années, l’utilisation des sextoys suscite plusieurs polémiques. S’ils sont très convoités pour les plaisirs solos, nombreux sont les couples qui ont du mal à l’intégrer dans leur[…]
Il est possible de domicilier le siège social de son entreprise chez soi lors des démarches d’immatriculation. D’ailleurs, c’est une solution avantageuse et simple. L’essentiel[…]
L’électricité est devenue, de nos jours, un besoin d’une importance majeure, et cela, dans tous les domaines d’activité. Que ce soit dans les maisons ou[…]
MwcNews.net|Contact|Mentions Légales|Politique de confidentialite|L'équipe|Unpointculture

Title: DRC govt recruited rebels for deadly crackdown on protests: HRW | News24
Friday, 20 September
04 Dec 2017
Brussels - Former militants were recruited by the Democratic Republic of Congo government for a bloody crackdown on protests against the president that left dozens of people dead last year, a rights group alleged on Monday.
Human Rights Watch said President Joseph Kabila's regime had drafted in fighters previously active in the M23 rebel group from Uganda and Rwanda to suppress the December 2016 demonstrations, which erupted when he refused to step down at the end of his term in power.
The right group's allegations came as the country faces a new flare-up of violence after Kabila pushed back a much-delayed new vote until December 2018, with the opposition demanding that the veteran leader resign sooner.
"Senior security force officers in the Democratic Republic of Congo mobilized over 200 former M23 rebel fighters from neighboring countries to quash protests against President Joseph Kabila in December 2016," HRW said in a report.
It said Congolese security forces acting with M23 fighters killed at least 62 people and arrested hundreds more as the protests swept through the vast African country between 19 and 22 December 2016.
Brutal conflict
M23, a mostly ethnic Tutsi rebel group, was defeated in November 2013 at the hands of Congolese and UN forces. Hundreds of fighters fled the country but officials and residents in the eastern region of Kivu have said they had seen militants return.
Congo's resource-rich eastern provinces have suffered years of brutal conflict, with neighbouring states backing rebel groups in a civil war against Kinshasa's authority, and roaming armed militia triggering the mass flight of terrorised civilians.
HRW said its research was based on more than 120 interviews and that during the protests, "M23 fighters patrolled the streets of Congo's main cities, firing on or arresting protesters or anyone else deemed to be a threat to the president".
"Covert operations to recruit fighters from an abusive armed group to suppress any resistance show how far President Kabila and his coterie are willing to go to stay in power," said Ida Sawyer, the organisation's Central Africa director.
"Congolese officials should end all unlawful use of force against protesters and allow peaceful political activities by activists and the political opposition."
Opposition forces are demanding Kabila - who took office after his father Laurent was assassinated in 2001 - step down on December 31, but authorities made several arrests ahead of an opposition march earlier this month.
Free to listen for subscribers
News24's September audiobook that’s free to listen to for subscribers is The Super Cadres: ANC Misrule in the Age of Deployment by Pieter du Toit.
Indulge in the finer things
News24's new magazine is curated for those who understand luxury and want to celebrate the richness of life.
Can you ace them all?
Today’s crossword, wordflower, sudoku and weekly news quiz
Friday Briefing - weekly
Insight and analysis on the big political story of the week, plus a roundup of top columns and reader favourites.
04 Sep
21 Aug
16 Aug
07 Aug
01 Aug
19 Jul

Use your voice to deepen the dialogue and engage with stories of courage, endurance, community, triumph, and the pursuit of truth in SA.
17 Sep
17 Sep
13 Sep
01 Sep
Contact the public editor with feedback for our journalists, complaints, queries or suggestions about articles on News24.
04 Sep
12 Sep
09 Sep
11 Sep

Title: Ugandan army attacks rebel camps in eastern Congo | Africanews
Please select your experience
Copy/paste the script below
OTHER WIDGETS
The Ugandan army on Friday attacked rebel camps in eastern Congo, an army spokesman said.
“We have attacked ADF bases in Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC)R Congo this afternoon. Shared intelligence between Uganda and the DRC, confirmed that the ADF terrorists who recently carried out attack on UN peace keepers under MONUSCO, were planning to conduct hostile activities against Uganda. In a preemptive move, this afternoon UPDF conducted attacks on their camps in Eastern DRC,” he said.
The spokesperson however clarified that the Ugandan army didn’t enter the territory of DRC, rather they used long range guns and planes to attack the ADF bases.
“ADF terrorists may only buy time but will be targeted wherever they are hiding!,” he said. Local media reported that the Ugandan army deployed heavily along the DRC-Uganda border following the deadly attack that killed 15 UN peacekeepers in Eastern Congo.
The attack was attributed to the ADF and the Uganda People’s Defence Forces (UPDF) explained that the deployment followed reports that the rebels planned to attack Uganda.
In the 1990s, the ADF rebels terrorized the Rwenzori region in the districts of Kasese, Bundibugyo and Kabarole for over a decade. During the insurgency, the rebels are believed to have killed more than 3,000 people and displaced 100,000.
The last time Uganda sent its troops into DRC in pursuit of rebels, it was charged for plunder of the country’s resources.
The International Court of Justice, the UN’s highest court, ruled that Uganda was guilty of “occupying Ituri (a region in the DRC), violations of sovereignty, illegal use of force, violations of international human rights laws and looting and plunder” between August 1998 and June 2003.


Title: Uganda, DR Congo agree to share intelligence to fight ADF rebels - New Vision Official
Dec 20, 2017
PIC: State minister for defense and veteran affairs Bright RwamiramaREBELLION | ADFXinhua- Ugandan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) authorities have agreed to strengthen liaison mechanisms and share intelligence information in a bid to defeat the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) rebels following their deadly attack on UN peacekeepers.Brig. Richard Karemire, Ugandan military spokesperson, told Xinhua on Tuesday that the Ugandan government and DRC's North Kivu officials held a bilateral security meeting in the western Ugandan district of Mbarara over the weekend."Sharing information will help forces to be better prepared to deter infiltration and possible attacks by the ADF," said Karemire.The Ugandan delegation led by Bright Rwamirama, state minister for defense and veteran affairs, met with DRC's North Kivu province regional officials.The ADF attacked the UN peacekeepers in eastern DRC's North Kivu province on Dec. 7, killing at least 15 Tanzanian blue helmets, five DRC soldiers and wounded 53 others.Uganda last week called for the operationalization of a regional military center in the western district of Kasese to intensify the fight against the ADF.The center -- Joint Regional Military Center of the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR) -- was established in 2016 to monitor and gather intelligence on rebel activities and share it with member states.ICGLR is a regional intergovernmental body that comprises 12 countries -- Uganda, Angola, Burundi, Central African Republic, DRC, Republic of Congo, Rwanda, Sudan, Kenya, South Sudan, Tanzania and Zambia.The ADF is accused of increased killings and massacres of troops and civilians, rape and abductions over the past three months in eastern DRC.
PIC: State minister for defense and veteran affairs Bright RwamiramaREBELLION | ADF
Xinhua- Ugandan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) authorities have agreed to strengthen liaison mechanisms and share intelligence information in a bid to defeat the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) rebels following their deadly attack on UN peacekeepers.
Brig. Richard Karemire, Ugandan military spokesperson, told Xinhua on Tuesday that the Ugandan government and DRC's North Kivu officials held a bilateral security meeting in the western Ugandan district of Mbarara over the weekend.
"Sharing information will help forces to be better prepared to deter infiltration and possible attacks by the ADF," said Karemire.
The Ugandan delegation led by Bright Rwamirama, state minister for defense and veteran affairs, met with DRC's North Kivu province regional officials.
The ADF attacked the UN peacekeepers in eastern DRC's North Kivu province on Dec. 7, killing at least 15 Tanzanian blue helmets, five DRC soldiers and wounded 53 others.
Uganda last week called for the operationalization of a regional military center in the western district of Kasese to intensify the fight against the ADF.
The center -- Joint Regional Military Center of the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR) -- was established in 2016 to monitor and gather intelligence on rebel activities and share it with member states.
ICGLR is a regional intergovernmental body that comprises 12 countries -- Uganda, Angola, Burundi, Central African Republic, DRC, Republic of Congo, Rwanda, Sudan, Kenya, South Sudan, Tanzania and Zambia.
The ADF is accused of increased killings and massacres of troops and civilians, rape and abductions over the past three months in eastern DRC.

Title: 
Uganda says DR Congo endorsed attack on ADF rebels in eastern region - Xinhua | English.news.cn


File photo shows Ugandan soldiers march during celebrations for Uganda's 50th independence anniversary in Kampala, Uganda, Oct. 9, 2012. (Xinhua/Yuan Qing)
KAMPALA, Dec. 22 (Xinhua) -- The Ugandan military on Friday said the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) endorsed its attack on the rebel Allied Democratic Force (ADF) in the eastern part of the vast central African country.
Army spokesman Brig. Richard Karemire said in a statement that the leaders of the two countries have been in talks on possible ways of eliminating the ADF, a Ugandan rebel group holed up in eastern DRC.
"Recently, the DRC authorities proposed that the two countries plan and conduct limited joint operations against this growing terrorist menace in our neighborhood," Karemire said.
Karemire said this understanding led to this afternoon's attack on the ADF bases using fighter jets.
"These terrorists should know that they may only buy time, but will be targeted wherever they are," Karemire said.
The military in a statement issued here said the troops carried out a preemptive attack after receiving intelligence information that rebels were planning to attack Uganda.
"In a preemptive move, this afternoon UPDF (Uganda People's Defense Forces) conducted attacks on their camps in eastern DRC. ADF terrorists may only buy time but will be targeted wherever they are hiding!" the statement said.
Karemire told Xinhua in an interview later that the military used fighter jets.
"Our troops didn't enter DRC. We employed the Air forces and long range artillery to carry out the attacks," he said.
The ADF have been blamed for recent attacks in eastern DRC including the Dec. 7 killing of 15 Tanzanian UN peacekeepers in North Kivu province.

File photo shows Ugandan soldiers march during celebrations for Uganda's 50th independence anniversary in Kampala, Uganda, Oct. 9, 2012. (Xinhua/Yuan Qing)
KAMPALA, Dec. 22 (Xinhua) -- The Ugandan military on Friday said the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) endorsed its attack on the rebel Allied Democratic Force (ADF) in the eastern part of the vast central African country.
Army spokesman Brig. Richard Karemire said in a statement that the leaders of the two countries have been in talks on possible ways of eliminating the ADF, a Ugandan rebel group holed up in eastern DRC.
"Recently, the DRC authorities proposed that the two countries plan and conduct limited joint operations against this growing terrorist menace in our neighborhood," Karemire said.
Karemire said this understanding led to this afternoon's attack on the ADF bases using fighter jets.
"These terrorists should know that they may only buy time, but will be targeted wherever they are," Karemire said.
The military in a statement issued here said the troops carried out a preemptive attack after receiving intelligence information that rebels were planning to attack Uganda.
"In a preemptive move, this afternoon UPDF (Uganda People's Defense Forces) conducted attacks on their camps in eastern DRC. ADF terrorists may only buy time but will be targeted wherever they are hiding!" the statement said.
Karemire told Xinhua in an interview later that the military used fighter jets.
"Our troops didn't enter DRC. We employed the Air forces and long range artillery to carry out the attacks," he said.
The ADF have been blamed for recent attacks in eastern DRC including the Dec. 7 killing of 15 Tanzanian UN peacekeepers in North Kivu province.
Copyright © 2000 - 2016 XINHUANET.com
All Rights Reserved.

Title: 
Uganda, DR Congo agree to share intelligence to fight ADF rebels - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KAMPALA, Dec. 19 (Xinhua) -- Ugandan and the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) authorities have agreed to strengthen liaison mechanisms and share intelligence information in a bid to defeat the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) rebels following their deadly attack on UN peacekeepers.
Brig. Richard Karemire, Ugandan military spokesperson, told Xinhua on Tuesday that the Ugandan government and DRC's North Kivu officials held a bilateral security meeting in the western Ugandan district of Mbarara over the weekend.
"Sharing information will help forces to be better prepared to deter infiltration and possible attacks by the ADF," said Karemire.
The Ugandan delegation led by Bright Rwamirama, state minister for defense and veteran affairs, met with DRC's North Kivu province regional officials.
The ADF attacked the UN peacekeepers in eastern DRC's North Kivu province on Dec. 7, killing at least 15 Tanzanian blue helmets, five DRC soldiers and wounded 53 others.
Uganda last week called for the operationalization of a regional military center in the western district of Kasese to intensify the fight against the ADF.
The center -- Joint Regional Military Center of the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR) -- was established in 2016 to monitor and gather intelligence on rebel activities and share it with member states.
ICGLR is a regional intergovernmental body that comprises 12 countries -- Uganda, Angola, Burundi, Central African Republic, DRC, Republic of Congo, Rwanda, Sudan, Kenya, South Sudan, Tanzania and Zambia.
The ADF is accused of increased killings and massacres of troops and civilians, rape and abductions over the past three months in eastern DRC.
Chinese scientist among Nature magazine's 10 people who matter in science
Commemoration of 1st anniv. of Christmas market attack held in Berlin
Panda cub Xiang Xiang meets public at Tokyo zoo
China's passenger ship "Harmony Yungang" leaves for South Korea
Birds on Gaoligong Mountain attract tourists
In pics: Icicles scenery in Gansu
Second plane of C919 makes first test flight in Shanghai
In pics: rime scenery on outskirts of Jilin City

Title: 
Uganda seeks DRC authorization to hunt ADF inside its territory - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KAMPALA, Dec. 31 (Xinhua) -- Uganda is engaging and seeking authorization from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) government for a mandate to hunt the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) in its territory, a military spokesperson said here on Sunday.
Brig. Richard Karemire, Ugandan military spokesperson, told Xinhua that the authorities in Kampala are engaging their Kinshasa counterparts for permission to allow the East African country's infantry troops to cross into eastern DRC to pursue and hunt the rebel group, currently causing havoc in North Kivu Province.
"DRC is a sovereign state (and) independent country. It's absolute common sense to engage its authorities on such matter of common security interest, more so when these ADF terrorists have established havens on its territory," said Karemire.
On Dec. 22, Uganda People's Defense Forces (UPDF) used its jet fighters and artillery fire to attack the outfit's bases in the jungles of eastern DRC's North Kivu province, according to the Ugandan military.
The army said over 100 rebel fighters were killed in the operation that was sparked off by the group's attack on the UN peacekeepers, which killed 15 Tanzanian blue helmets and five DRC troops and wounded 53 others.
President Xi delivers New Year speech vowing resolute reform in 2018
Major work of world's longest sea bridge completed
Weekly choices of Xinhua photo
Beijing launches two new railway lines
Bird catches fish, rests on lotus in Beijing
Herdsmen tame horses on snow-covered pasture in N China
In pics: aerial view of China
Chinese mergansers spend winter in E China's Wuyuan

Title: Home | Monitor
Hello
Your subscription is almost coming to an end. Don’t miss out on the great content on Nation.Africa
Ready to continue your informative journey with us?
Hello
Your premium access has ended, but the best of Nation.Africa is still within reach. Renew now to unlock exclusive stories and in-depth features.
Reclaim your full access. Click below to renew.
Subscribe fora month to get full access
The delaying factor is now the compensation process for extra land they need for the project
The hospital risks having its water disconnected
For centuries in the African setting, fishing was a male-dominated activity, with women relegated to salting and smoking the fish
Players’ salaries will also increase and the league has introduced a new salary cap to ensure that players are remunerated in a more even and transparent way.
The 22-year-old ICT student became the first to take the crown to the Lango Sub-region
The Speaker of Parliament recently suggested the demarcation of ambulance lanes on our roads
It is often difficult to accurately gauge the depth of the water with just a glance, but understanding that even a small amount of water can cause major damage is important
The improvement in income has seen NSSF’s total assets under management grow to Shs22.12 trillion as of June 2024 from Shs18.56 trillion
The spotlight that shone on Kato also cast a shadow, with classmates sometimes mocking Conrad for his father’s fame
For centuries in the African setting, fishing was a male-dominated activity, with women relegated to salting and smoking the fish
Their chairman Eng. Ronald Barente was reelected for another four-year term with renewed optimism that this could be the season they finally etch their name among the country’s champions.
Nation Media Group © 2024
It's free!
Access the best of Monitor's Independent Journalism

Title: Home | Monitor
Hello
Your subscription is almost coming to an end. Don’t miss out on the great content on Nation.Africa
Ready to continue your informative journey with us?
Hello
Your premium access has ended, but the best of Nation.Africa is still within reach. Renew now to unlock exclusive stories and in-depth features.
Reclaim your full access. Click below to renew.
Subscribe fora month to get full access
The delaying factor is now the compensation process for extra land they need for the project
The hospital risks having its water disconnected
For centuries in the African setting, fishing was a male-dominated activity, with women relegated to salting and smoking the fish
Players’ salaries will also increase and the league has introduced a new salary cap to ensure that players are remunerated in a more even and transparent way.
The 22-year-old ICT student became the first to take the crown to the Lango Sub-region
The Speaker of Parliament recently suggested the demarcation of ambulance lanes on our roads
It is often difficult to accurately gauge the depth of the water with just a glance, but understanding that even a small amount of water can cause major damage is important
The improvement in income has seen NSSF’s total assets under management grow to Shs22.12 trillion as of June 2024 from Shs18.56 trillion
The spotlight that shone on Kato also cast a shadow, with classmates sometimes mocking Conrad for his father’s fame
For centuries in the African setting, fishing was a male-dominated activity, with women relegated to salting and smoking the fish
Their chairman Eng. Ronald Barente was reelected for another four-year term with renewed optimism that this could be the season they finally etch their name among the country’s champions.
Nation Media Group © 2024
It's free!
Access the best of Monitor's Independent Journalism

Title: Uganda, DRC Biggest Safe Haven for Rwanda Genocide Fugitives – KT PRESS
Ladislas Ntaganzwa waiting to be airlifted from DRC
Uganda and Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) are the biggest hosts of perpetrators of the 1994 Genocide against Tutsi,KT Presscan reliably reveal.
A list obtained byKT Pressindicates that Uganda and DRC are home to nearly 55% of the 835 fugitives indicted by Rwanda’s prosecution across 34 countries in the world.
Of the 835 fugitives, the prosecution says, 254 are in DRC while 226 are camped in Uganda, which makes a total of 480 suspects.
According to Jean Bosco Siboyintore, Head of Genocide Suspects Tracking Unit, most fugitives in Uganda and DRC were those who could not afford means to move far.
“Most of these perpetrators were foot soldiers. They could not move far,” he told KT Press.
DRC is home to the so-called Forces Démocratiques pour Libération du Rwanda (FDLR) – an armed group comprised of remnants of perpetrators of the 1994 Genocide against the Tutsi.
In DRC, a little was done to have the suspects arrested. The latest and rare move in DRC was in 2016 when Ladislas Ntaganzwa was deported to Rwanda.
Lieutenant Seyoboka upon deportation from Canada
Ntaganzwa is a former mayor of Nyakizu commune in current Nyaruguru district. He is the first suspect to be arrested among 9 genocide perpetrators the US Government had placed a$5million bounty.
In December 2015, Ntaganzwa was arrested from the Democratic Republic of Congo and transferred to Rwanda in March 2016. He is charged with eight counts related to Genocide crimes and crimes committed against Humanity.
Ntaganzwa is accused to have killed about 20,000 Tutsi.
Uganda and DRC proximity to Rwanda is similar to other neighbors; Burundi and Tanzania – but the two accommodate lesser fugitives with Burundi (14) and Tanzania (25).
Siboyintore’s worry, however, is that the biggest host countries have not been doing enough to help Rwanda bring these fugitives home – despite indictments sent as back as 2007.
Clock wise-Celestin Mutabaruka, Dr Vincent Bajinya, Emmanuel Nteziryayo, Celestin Ugirashebuja, Charles Munyaneza, genocide fugitives in UK
For example, in 2005, Rwanda signed an extradition agreement with Uganda but not much was done to its effect.
“With the number of fugitives hiding in Uganda, only 3 suspects have been sent to Rwanda. Our next phase is to start discussing with these countries to push them and see these fugitives extradited,” Jean Bosco Siboyintore said.
Meanwhile, on the third position of the list, France and Malawi have 42 fugitives each while Belgium has 39 and Kenya, 28 fugitives.
All these countries have a particular history in regard to Genocide suspects with France known for shielding notorious suspects, to mislead about the role its officials played in the Genocide.
In France,Collectif des Parties Civiles Pour le Rwanda– CPCR has always put pressure on the country’s judiciary to change that attitude.
Dr Leopold Munyakazi Genocide convict who was tried in Rwanda after extradition from US in September 2016
In Kenya, there has not been much after the arrest of two Genocide convicts, namely Jean Kambanda and Pauline Nyiramasuhuko, both cabinet members of the Genocidal regime in 1997.
Some countries like the United States – 23 convicts, the Netherlands with 18 convicts and Norway-6 have arrested some suspects in the past, but Rwanda is pushing for more commitment.
“Victims need justice…this is the right time for these countries to collaborate and help bring these fugitives. The victims have waited for justice for 23 years,” Siboyintore toldKT Press.


@ KT PRESS 2014 - 2024 . All Right Reserved.

Title: Security Council Reiterates Need to Respect Cooperation Framework Commitments in Great Lakes Region, Unanimously Adopting Resolution 2389 (2017) - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWeb
DR Congo+ 10 more
SC/13108
Security Council8125th Meeting (AM)
Nearly five years after parties signed the cooperation framework for the Great Lakes region, the Security Council reiterated today its call for States to abide by the commitment to non‑interference in the internal affairs of neighbours and the prohibition against abetting armed groups or war criminals.
Unanimously adopting resolution 2389 (2017), the Council reaffirmed that the Peace, Security and Cooperation Framework for the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Region remained “an essential mechanism to achieve durable peace and stability”.  It thus called on the Democratic Republic of the Congo to make further progress in security sector reform, consolidation of State authority, reconciliation, tolerance and democratization.
It encouraged enhanced cooperation among all signatory States of the Framework, including Angola, Burundi, Central African Republic, Congo, Rwanda, South Africa, South Sudan, Uganda, United Republic of Tanzania and Zambia.  It also encouraged continued support of the Guarantors, comprising the African Union, the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region, the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and the United Nations.
By other terms, the Council called on regional countries to comply with obligations under international human rights and humanitarian law, calling on the military of the Democratic Republic of the Congo to carry out its operations with strict respect for those principles and for that country to make further progress in consolidation of State authority, reconciliation, civilian protection, tolerance and democratization.
Demanding that all armed groups in the Democratic Republic of the Congo cease operations and disband, the Council urged enhanced regional cooperation in that effort, including in the repatriation of ex-combatants according to agreed timeframes.
It urged international and regional support for strengthening governance and electoral processes in the countries of the region, calling on States to take steps to ensure that electoral processes promote peace and security through timely, peaceful, inclusive and credible elections.
The Council invited the Secretary‑General to engage with the signatory States, Guarantors and other partners to assess the progress, challenges and shortcomings in the implementation of the Framework, and to present his vision, supported by recommendations, to the Council in the report due by 31 March 2018.
Amr Abdellatif Aboulatta (Egypt), welcoming the unanimous adoption, said it reflected the special attention accorded to the Great Lakes region and its cooperation framework of countries and organizations at the forefront of meeting the area’s challenges.  Noting the five‑year mark, he called on all stakeholders to step up efforts to implement all elements of the agreement.
He said Egypt, along with Ethiopia and Senegal, had led consultations that included all the major actors in a process that was inclusive and transparent, and in line with the concerns of all Council members.  Summarizing the text, he affirmed the need for a regional approach to challenges that addressed their root causes, along with deepened international cooperation with regional actors.
The meeting began at 9:27 a.m. and ended at 9:46 a.m.
Resolution
The full text of resolution 2389 (2017) reads as follows:
“The Security Council,
“Taking note of the report of the Secretary‑General on the implementation of the Peace, Security and Cooperation (PSC) Framework for the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and the Region,
“Reaffirming its strong commitment to the sovereignty, independence, unity and territorial integrity of all States in the region and emphasizing the need to respect fully the principles of non-interference, good‑neighbourliness and regional cooperation,
“Recalling that the Governments of the region bear the primary responsibility to protect civilians within their territories and subject to their jurisdiction, including protection from crimes against humanity and war crimes,
“Expressing concern over the significant increase in the numbers of refugees and internally displaced persons (IDPs) in the Great Lakes region over the past year, totalling now more than 7 million internally displaced persons and 3.5 million refugees, and stressing the link between forced displacement and instability and insecurity in the region,
“Reiterating its deep concern regarding the security and humanitarian crisis in the DRC exacerbated by destabilizing activities of foreign and domestic armed groups, stressing the importance of neutralizing armed groups in the DRC, and recognizing the importance of efforts of the Forces Armées de la République démocratique du Congo (FARDC) and the United Nations Organization Stabilisation Mission in the DRC (MONUSCO), including by conducting joint operations, in accordance with its mandate as stipulated in resolution 2348 (2017),
“Welcoming the credible and peaceful conduct of elections in some States of the Great Lakes region, and noting, however, that recent and ongoing electoral processes in some countries of the Great Lakes region raise deep concerns about the risk of instability, insecurity, the potential for violence, human rights violations and abuses and violations of international humanitarian law and further displacement of people which impact all countries of the Great Lakes region,
“Expressing concern at the illicit flow of weapons within and into the DRC, including their recirculation to and between armed groups, in violation of resolution 2360 (2017), and declaring its determination to continue to monitor closely the implementation of the arms embargo and other measures set out by its resolutions concerning the DRC, and acknowledging in this respect the important contribution the Council‑mandated arms embargo makes to countering the illicit transfer of small arms and light weapons in the DRC, and in supporting post‑conflict peacebuilding, disarmament, demobilization and reintegration of ex‑combatants and security sector reform,
“Expressing further concern at the illegal exploitation and trafficking of natural resources by armed groups among others, and the negative impact of armed conflict on protected natural areas, which undermines lasting peace and development for the DRC, and encouraging the Government of the DRC to strengthen efforts to safeguard those areas,
“Recalling the linkage between the illegal exploitation and trade of natural resources, including poaching and illegal trafficking of wildlife, and the proliferation and trafficking of arms as one of the major factors fuelling and exacerbating conflicts in the Great Lakes region, and encouraging the continuation of the regional efforts of the International Conference of the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR) and the governments involved against the illegal exploitation of natural resources, and stressing, in this regard, the importance of regional cooperation and deepening economic integration with special consideration for the exploitation of natural resources,
“Reaffirming that the Peace, Security and Cooperation (PSC) Framework remains an essential mechanism to achieve durable peace and stability in the DRC and the Region, noting and supporting the renewed commitment of its signatories towards its full implementation, and reiterating its call to all signatories to fulfil promptly, fully and in good faith their respective commitments under this Framework in order to address the root causes of conflict and put an end to recurring cycles of violence, and promote lasting regional development,
“Recalling the strategic importance of the implementation of the PSC Framework, and welcoming the commitment of the AU Peace and Security Council, as expressed in its communique of 7 November 2017, to ensure the implementation of the PSC Framework, and echoing its call upon all the signatory states and the Guarantors of the Framework to redouble their efforts, in order to ensure effective implementation of all aspects of the Framework,
“Recalling the commitments under the PSC Framework by all States of the region not to interfere in the internal affairs of neighbouring countries, and to neither tolerate nor provide assistance or support of any kind to armed groups, and reiterating its strong condemnation of any and all internal or external support to armed groups active in the region, including through financial, logistical or military support, and not to harbour war criminals,
“Stressing that the 2006 Pact on Security, Stability and Development in the Great Lakes Region and the PSC Framework for the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the region are mutually reinforcing, and are crucial tools to achieve long‑term peace and prosperity, emphasizing that the PSC Framework demonstrates that peace, security and development are interlinked and underscores the importance of strengthening regional cooperation, including the deepening of economic integration,
“Mindful that solutions to the prevailing situation in the Great Lakes region should come within a regional perspective, by addressing the root causes of conflicts including their developmental aspects, many of which are regional in nature; with cross‑border issues linked to the eastern DRC assuming crucial significance, including the large flows of natural resources, migrants and refugees, and activities of armed groups and criminal networks across the borders,
“1. Welcomes the renewed commitment of all the signatory states of the PSC Framework towards its full implementation, as expressed in the Communique of the Eighth High‑Level Meeting of the Regional Oversight Mechanism, held in Brazzaville, Republic of Congo, on 19 October 2017, reaffirms that the PSC Framework remains an essential mechanism to achieve durable peace and stability in the DRC and the Region, and stresses in this regard the importance of the signatory States fully implementing their national and regional commitments under the PSC Framework;
“2. Welcomes also the progress under the Regional Plan of action for the Implementation of the Regional Commitments under the PSC Framework, including the recent activities in the areas of youth and women, combating illegal exploitation of natural resources and judicial cooperation, as well as the endorsement of the updated list of Priority Activities of the Regional Plan of Action;
“3. Encourages enhanced cooperation among all signatory states of the PSC Framework, with the support of its Guarantors, namely the African Union, the International Conference on the Great Lakes Region (ICGLR), the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and the United Nations, towards its full implementation;
“4. Strongly condemns all armed groups operating in the region and their violations of international humanitarian law, as well as other applicable international law, and abuses of human rights, including attacks on the civilian population, MONUSCO peacekeepers and humanitarian actors, summary executions, sexual and gender‑based violence and large scale recruitment and use of children, and reiterates that those responsible should be held accountable;
“5. Demands that all armed groups operating in the DRC, including the FDLR, the ADF, the LRA, cease immediately all forms of violence and other destabilizing activities, including the exploitation of natural resources, and that their members immediately and permanently disband, lay down their arms, and liberate and demobilize all children from their ranks, recalls in this regard its resolution 2360 (2017) renewing the sanctions regime, and further calls for disarmament of FDLR active leadership and combatants, who were perpetrators of the 1994 genocide against the Tutsi in Rwanda, during which Hutu and others who opposed the genocide were also killed, and have continued to promote and commit ethnically‑based and other killings in Rwanda and the DRC;
“6. Reiterates its call to all signatory States under the PSC Framework to redouble their efforts in order to fully and promptly implement their commitments in good faith, including not interfering in the internal affairs of neighbouring countries, neither tolerating nor providing assistance or support of any kind to armed groups, and not harbouring war criminals, and calls on the Government of the DRC, which has the primary responsibility for safeguarding the DRC’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, to make further progress in implementing its commitments under the PSC Framework, in particular as regards security sector reform, consolidation of State authority, reconciliation, tolerance and democratization;
“7. Calls on the Government of the DRC, with the support of the countries of the region in line with their commitment under the PSC Framework, and in close collaboration with MONUSCO, including by conducting joint operations in accordance with its mandate as stipulated in resolution 2348 (2017), to vigorously pursue the neutralization of all armed groups still active in the Eastern DRC, and stresses the need to protect the civilian population, including through professional, accountable and sustainable security forces, and to carry out operations in strict compliance with international law, including international humanitarian law and international human rights law, as applicable;
“8. Welcomes the commitment of the signatory states of the PSC Framework to complete without precondition the repatriation of the FDLR disarmed combatants and former M23 combatants within the shortest time frame possible, urges the Governments of the region, with the support of the PSC Guarantors, to strengthen their collaboration to meet the agreed timeframe;
“9. Requests the Governments of the DRC, Uganda and Rwanda to strengthen their collaboration to ensure the repatriation of former M23 combatants located in their territories consistent with the Nairobi declarations and in line with commitments under the PSC Framework, calls upon the Guarantors of PSC framework to continue their engagement with the stakeholders towards the resumption of the joint consultation between the DRC Government and the former M23 leadership initiated in 2016 under the auspices of the Guarantors, and further urges the former M23 leadership to cooperate fully with the repatriation of former combatants consistent with its commitment under the Nairobi declaration;
“10. Reiterates its call for a suitable solution for the relocation of elements of the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement/Army-in Opposition (SPLM/A-IO) currently present in the DRC, welcomes the spirit of collaboration displayed by the Governments of DRC and South Sudan and the progress achieved thus far in this regard with the support of MONUSCO and the Office of the Special Envoy for the Great Lakes Region, and calls on all regional actors and the international community to support these efforts;
“11. Commends the efforts of the African Union, as well as the subregional organizations in particular ECCAS, EAC, ICGLR and SADC, towards supporting political processes and finding peaceful solutions for the conflict situations in the region;
“12. Urges continued regional and international support for initiatives aimed at promoting inclusive dialogue amongst national stakeholders and stresses the importance of opening political space to enable the full and free participation of peaceful political parties, civil society and the media as well as the full participation of both men and women in the political process, urges international and regional support for strengthening and improving capacity for elections and governance in the countries of the region, and calls on member states in the Great Lakes region to take steps to ensure that electoral processes promote peace and security through timely, peaceful, inclusive and credible elections, in line with countries’ own constitutions and the African Charter on Democracy, Elections and Governance, as applicable;
“13. Notes the link between justice and conflict prevention, and calls upon all countries in the Great Lakes region to comply with their obligations under international law, including international human rights law and international humanitarian law, and encourages them to actively pursue accountability for perpetrators of human rights violations and abuses and violations of international humanitarian law and to effectively support measures of conflict prevention by ending the culture of impunity, and welcomes efforts by national governments to reverse such trend;
“14. Shares the view expressed in the RSF GLR that there is an urgent need to address violence and discrimination against women and girls, including rape and other forms of sexual violence in the Great Lakes region and take into account the link between women´s participation in peace and security decision-making, for peace and gender equality;
“15. Supports the regional initiatives on the issue of gender related violence in armed conflict to influence regional and local decision makers, aimed at the implementation of the commitments of the Kampala Declaration addressing impunity for gender based crimes at the country level and to improve women’s visibility, empowerment and resilience;
“16. Welcomes measures taken by the Governments in the region to implement the Group of Experts established by resolution 1533 (2004) due diligence guidelines, including adopting the Regional Certification Mechanism of the ICGLR into their national legislation, in accordance with OECD Guidance and international practice, and further welcomes the successful organization of the Regional Experts and Stakeholders Consultation on Natural Resources and Good Governance for Sustainable Peace, Development and Transformation of the Great Lakes Region, held in Nairobi on 5 and 6 July 2017, and notes with encouragement the increased cooperation between ICGLR and other partners on strengthening the ICGLR Regional Initiative against the Illegal Exploitation of Natural Resources;
“17.”Stresses the need to undertake further efforts to cut off financing for armed groups involved in destabilizing activities through the illicit trade of natural resources, including gold or wildlife products, and encourages the continuation of efforts by the Governments of the region to address issues of illegal exploitation and smuggling of natural resources, including holding accountable all those who participate in the illicit trade of natural resources, particularly gold and wildlife products, and further encourages enhanced cooperation among the Governments in the region in line with its resolution 2360 (2017);
“18.”Stresses the need to find durable solutions for refugees, internally displaced persons and asylum seekers in the region, the majority of whom are women and children and are especially affected, and welcomes the efforts of Governments in the region and of regional and subregional organizations, as well as the hospitality provided by host communities for the millions of displaced people, and recalls in this regard obligations of the States in the region under the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees;
“19. Urges the governments of the region, as well as regional and international partners, to continue addressing urgent and drastically increasing humanitarian needs and pursue durable solutions for internally displaced persons, refugees and asylum seekers, notes that despite increasing needs, humanitarian appeals remain underfunded across the region, and urges international partners, and the donor community at large, to step up their support to humanitarian action in the region and in the DRC;
“20. Underlines the importance of peacebuilding efforts to address the root causes of conflict through a collaborative approach between the countries in the region and the African Union and African subregional organizations, as well as international partners, and recognizes, in this regard, the potential contribution of the Peacebuilding Commission (PBC), in accordance with its mandate as stipulated in resolutions 1645 (2005) and 2282 (2016);
“21.”Recalls the Regional Strategic Framework for the Great lakes region 2016–2017 (RSF GLR), which outlines the United Nations development approach in support of the implementation of the PSC Framework; and urges the donor community to contribute to the implementation of the RSF GLR, as an effective platform for partnership, in support of member states in the national and regional commitments aimed to address the root causes of conflicts, promote economic development and cooperation among countries of the region, as well as strengthening mechanisms and capacities to address cross‑border insecurity and trafficking, and bring about durable peace in the Great Lakes region;
“22. Calls on the United Nations Special Envoy for the Great Lakes Region to continue his regional and international engagement in furtherance of peace and stability in the DRC and the region, including through the promotion of timely, credible, and inclusive national elections, regional dialogue and by continuing, in close coordination with the SRSG for the DRC and Head of MONUSCO, to lead, coordinate and assess the implementation of the national and regional commitments under the PSC Framework, as well as to continue his engagement in regional initiatives with key partners to address the underlying root causes of conflict, while avoiding overlapping with other United Nations institutions;
“23. Stresses the need for deepening cooperation among the Guarantors of the PSC Framework, namely, the UN, AU, the ICGLR and SADC with the core signatory countries of the Framework, to ensure that major regional political and security challenges are addressed in a spirit of cooperation, and to create conditions for sustainable peace, stability and development in the DRC and the Great Lakes region, and for future alignment of the United Nations presence and engagement to this end;
“24. Invites, in this regard, the Secretary General, to engage in high-level dialogue, in collaboration with the African Union, with the signatory states and Guarantor institutions of the PSC Framework, as well as key regional and international partners, to assess the progress, challenges and shortcomings in the implementation of the Framework, and to present his vision, supported by concrete recommendations, to the Council in his next report, which would mark the fifth anniversary of the signing of the PSC Framework.”
AFRICA
For information media. Not an official record.
DR Congo
South Sudan
CAR
South Sudan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Un Peacekeeping Chief Visits Drc
Peacekeepingby theUnited Nationsis a role held by theDepartment of Peacekeeping Operationsas "a unique and dynamic instrument developed by the Organization as a way to help countries torn by conflict to create the conditions for lasting peace." It is distinguished from bothpeacebuilding,peacemaking, andpeace enforcement.
Peacekeepers monitor and observe peace processes in post-conflict areas and assist ex-combatants in implementing thepeace agreementsthey may have signed. Such assistance comes in many forms, including confidence-building measures, power-sharing arrangements, electoral support, strengthening the rule of law, and economic and social development. Accordingly, UN peacekeepers (often referred to asBlue BeretsorBlue Helmetsbecause of their light blueberetsor helmets) can include soldiers, police officers, and civilian personnel.
TheUnited Nations Chartergives theUnited Nations Security Councilthe power and responsibility to takecollective actionto maintain internationalpeaceand security. For this reason, the international community usually looks to the Security Council to authorize peacekeeping operations through Chapter VI authorizations.

Title: Un To Expand Dr Congo Peacekeeping Mission
Coordinates:2°52′48″S23°39′22″E﻿/﻿2.88°S 23.656°E﻿/-2.88; 23.656
TheDemocratic Republic of the Congo(/ˈkɒŋɡoʊ/;French pronunciation:​[kɔ̃ɡo];French:République démocratique du Congo), also known asDR Congo,DRC,DROC,RDC,Congo-Kinshasa, or simplyCongois a country located in Central Africa. From 1971 to 1997 it was namedZaïre. The DRC borders theRepublic of the Congo, theCentral African Republic, andSouth Sudanto the north;Uganda,Rwanda,BurundiandTanzaniato the east;ZambiaandAngolato the south; and theAtlantic Oceanto the west. It is the second largest country in Africa by area, the largest inSubsaharanAfrica, and theeleventh largest in the world. With a population of over 75 million, the Democratic Republic of the Congo is the most populatedofficially Francophone country, the fourth most populated nation in Africa and thenineteenth most populated country in the world.
TheCongolese Civil Wars, which began in 1996, brought about the end ofMobutu Sese Seko's 31-year reign and devastated the country. The wars ultimately involved nine African nations, multiple groups ofUN peacekeepersand twenty armed groups, and resulted in the deaths of 5.4 million people.
TheMission oliveis acultivarofolivedeveloped inCalifornia, bySpanish missionsalongEl Camino Realin the late 18th century. The Mission olive has been included in theArk of Taste, an international catalog of endangeredheritage foodsmaintained by theSlow Foodmovement. It is also the only American olive cultivar listed by theInternational Olive Councilin its World Catalogue of Olive Varieties. Although developed in the United States, Mission olives are also used bySouth Africanolive oilproducers.
Mission trees can reach heights of40 and 50 feet (12 and 15m). They produce small fruit, typically of around4.1 grams (0.14oz). It has the lowest flesh-to-pit ratio (6.5:1) and greatest cold resistance of any commercial cultivar in California. Mission olives are harvested for table use from late October through November; for oil production, they are harvested between mid-December and February. They are susceptible to peacock spot, a disease caused by the fungusCycloconium oleaginum, and olive knot, a disease caused by the bacteriumPseudomonas savastanoi.
South Pasadena(formerlyMission) is anat-gradelight railstationin theLos Angeles County Metro Railsystem.  It is located at the intersection of Mission Street and Meridian Avenue inSouth Pasadena, California.  The station is served by theGold Line.
This station features the adjacent station art sculpture"Astride-Aside"(2003) by artist Michael Stutz.  The station has a 122 spacepark and ridelot and there is a fee to park.
Formerly serving theAtchison, Topeka and Santa Ferailroad, the original depot building was torn down in 1954 with the station's closure. The current structure was built with the reactivation of the line as a light rail station in 2003.
Gold Line service hours are approximately from 5:00 AM until 12:15 AM daily.
AmissionofThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints(LDS Church) is a geographical administrative area to which churchmissionariesare assigned. Almost all areas of the world are within the boundaries of an LDS Church mission, whether or not Mormon missionaries live or proselytize in the area. As of July 2015, there are418 missionsof the LDS Church.
Geographically, a mission may be a city, a city and surrounding areas, a state or province, or perhaps an entire country or even multiple countries. Typically, the name of the mission is the name of the country (or state in the United States), and then the name of the city where the mission headquarters office is located.
New missionaries receive a formalmission call, assigning them to a particular mission for the duration of their two years or eighteen months of service.  Each mission has, on average, about 150 missionaries serving there.
All missionaries serve in amissionunder the direction of amission president, who, like individual missionaries, is assigned by theLDS Church president. The mission president must be a marriedhigh priestin theMelchizedek Priesthood; his wife is asked to serve alongside him.  In 2013 the mission president's wife was given additional leadership roles in the mission. Mission presidents are typically in their forties or older, and usually have the financial means to devote themselves full-time to the responsibility for three consecutive years. The church provides mission presidents with a minimal living allowance but it normally requires them to supplement it with their own funds. Often, the mission president must learn the local language spoken in the mission, as the missionaries do (although many mission presidents today have either previously served a mission in the mission language or speak the mission language as their native language).

Agkistrodon piscivorusis avenomous snake, aspeciesofpit viper, found in thesoutheastern United States. Adults are large and capable of delivering a painful and potentially fatal bite. When antagonized, they will stand their ground by coiling their bodies and displaying their fangs. Although their aggression has been exaggerated, individuals may bite when feeling threatened or being handled. This is the world's only semiaquatic viper, usually found in or near water, particularly in slow-moving and shallow lakes, streams, and marshes. The snake is a strong swimmer and will even enter the sea. It has successfully colonized islands off both the Atlantic and Gulf coasts.
Thegeneric nameis derived from theGreekwordsancistro(hooked) andodon(tooth), and thespecific namecomes from theLatinpiscis(fish) andvoro(to eat); thus, thescientific nametranslates into “hooked-tooth fish-eater”. Common names include variants onwater moccasin,swamp moccasin,black moccasin,cottonmouth,gapper, or simplyviper. Many of the common names refer to the threat display, where this species will often stand its ground and gape at an intruder, exposing the white lining of its mouth. Threesubspeciesare currently recognized, including thenominate subspeciesdescribed here. Its diet consists mainly of fish and frogs but is otherwise highly varied and, uniquely, has even been reported to includecarrion.
Themember statesof theAfrican Unionare divided into five geographicregions of the African Union.
The AU considers theAfrican diasporaas its sixth region.
Congois aWilliamspinball machinereleased in November 1995.  It is based on themotion picture of the same name.

Title: Black Star News -
Black-owned businesses are on the rise. Government data shows that the number of black-owned businesses grew by more than 14%.  ...
Black Star News has been producing stellar investigative journalism since 1997, including focusing on police brutality and other abuses targeting marginalized communities and Us Politics We have broken several major stories And featured in major Media Houses in Usa And Worldwide. We welcome news tips to and advertising support to produce strong journalism, especially during periods of economic instability, so please contact for advertising rates and long term packages[email protected]