Title: A New Approach for the UN to Stabilise the DR Congo - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWeb
DR Congo
The Security Council has an opening to rethink its approach to DR Congo with this month’s mandate renewal of the UN peacekeeping mission. The council should prioritise local conflict resolution and bolstering President Tshisekedi’s efforts to improve regional relations to combat over 100 armed groups ravaging the east.
What’s new? The Security Council is seeking new ways to stabilise the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), with an eye to drawing down the long-running UN peace operation there. In parallel, Congolese President Félix Tshisekedi wants to strike a new security agreement with neighbouring countries to suppress armed groups in the country’s east.
Why does it matter? The persistence of over 100 armed groups in the eastern DRC is a threat to both Congolese civilians and regional stability. The country’s neighbours have also often used these militias as proxies to attack one another and control economic resources.
What should be done? The Security Council should strengthen the UN mission’s capacity to analyse the armed groups’ political links and resolve local grievances these groups can exploit. The UN should support President Tshisekedi’s regional diplomacy, with an emphasis on political reconciliation and economic integration among the DRC’s neighbours as steps to increase security.
I.
Overview
The Security Council has to agree on a new mandate for the two decade-old UN peacekeeping mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) by 20 December. In many ways, this exercise is routine. The Council has passed dozens of resolutions on the DRC since the country descended into civil war in the 1990s. Yet Council diplomats think that this negotiation may be more important than most. There are tentative signs that the Congolese government and regional powers in central Africa could work together to mitigate the DRC’s internal instability. The UN may be able to use its diplomacy and peacekeepers to move this process forward.
Over recent years, the UN Organization Stabilization Mission in the DRC (MONUSCO), has prioritised bringing armed groups in the east under control but its track record at best is mixed. In the DRC’s eastern provinces, Ituri and North and South Kivu, dozens of armed groups are still at large, killing civilians and threatening regional stability. The Force Intervention Brigade (FIB), deployed under UN auspices in 2013, helped to defeat the M23 rebel movement but is struggling to rein in remaining armed groups, one of which, the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), based in North Kivu, has proven particularly obstinate. While some reports suggest ADF leaders have ties to Islamist networks abroad, in reality, the group is mostly locally embedded. It often fights alongside local militias and exploits communal conflicts to win support. Within both MONUSCO and the Security Council, officials and diplomats disagree on whether the answer lies in better-funded military operations or in efforts to mediate local disputes and win over communities in affected areas.
Congolese President Félix Tshisekedi, who took office in January, has used his first year as chief executive to promote better relations with the DRC’s neighbours, including Burundi, Rwanda and Uganda. His core theme has been the need for a joint approach to tackle the armed groups in the eastern DRC. Tshisekedi’s regional counterparts, who have long exploited those groups as proxies, remain highly suspicious of one another, but have all been willing to engage to some degree in military and intelligence talks this year. There is a risk that some or all of the governments involved will use these interactions as cover for increased military interference in the DRC. But there is nonetheless a chance that Tshisekedi will achieve his apparent goal of establishing a new framework for regional cooperation.
The Security Council thus has an opening to rethink its approach to the DRC. Council members have long been frustrated by MONUSCO’s inability to stabilise the east, and most believe that it should draw down gradually in the years ahead. They are nonetheless cautious about how firmly to push for such a drawdown, due to the armed groups’ continued ravages but also because an outbreak of Ebola in eastern DRC has complicated the mission’s work there. Unlike his predecessor, Joseph Kabila, President Tshisekedi signals that he is keen to keep working with the UN to suppress armed groups. Council members have also been encouraged by the president’s regional diplomacy, and generally agree that the UN should now do what it can to help him, even while keeping one eye on an eventual exit.
In its mandate renewal, the Security Council should:
indicate support for President Tshisekedi’s mediation aimed at de-escalating political tensions in the region, whether in the resolution’s text or in statements made upon its approval; UN diplomats in Kinshasa, Kigali and Kampala should do the same. Overall, reducing tensions among DRC and its neighbours should precede any joint military operations;
direct MONUSCO to prioritise political analysis and information gathering as the basis for military decisions, and to back this up with more local mediation efforts targeting warring local communities in ADF-afflicted areas. These efforts would aim to reconcile these communities and then cooperate with them to develop more precise military operations against the ADF, who would also be more likely to demobilise if they lose local support. The FIB should follow this information-driven approach and cooperate with MONUSCO’s wider civilian protection mission; and
ensure that references to the ADF reflect realities on the ground, avoid playing up its transnational ties and defer to the UN mission regarding optimal policies for dealing with the threat the group poses.
DR Congo
DR Congo
DR Congo
DR Congo
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: The Effectiveness of the UN Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo - Democratic Republic of the Congo | ReliefWeb
DR Congo
Today, the United Nations Security Councilrenewedthe mandate of the UN Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO) with resolution 2502. As steps to wind down the mission begin, it is important to assess the impact of MONUSCO’s various activities. When doing so, we may have to change the lens through which we look at UN peacekeeping. Indeed, peacekeeping missions have always been deployed with pocket money in places that are not high priorities and where the permanent members (P5) of the UN Security Council have limited strategic interests.
Under such circumstances, most missions have accomplished a lot, and are helping the “international community” keep an eye on those situations and to prevent conflicts from escalating to massive levels of violence. Looking at MONUSCO in this light was the aim of a research team part of the Effectiveness of Peace Operations Network (EPON). An overarching conclusion of the team’s research is that what MONUSCO has been able to achieve, with comparatively little resources allocated for an area of operations that is of the size of a continent, is very impressive. In the end, a peacekeeping mission is trying to do its best to implement often unrealistic or overambitious mandates, and measuring their effectiveness must also involve a reality check of the implementation of the mandate delivered by the Security Council against the means and the capabilities that have been given to the mission. In this context, the EPONreporthas identified a number of strategic impacts and of strategic constraints faced by MONUSCO over the years.
The first area in which MONUC—the precursor to MONUSCO—had a strategic impact is in its contribution towards the reunification of the country. In short, as one African diplomat put it, “If the UN mission had not existed, most probably DRC would not have existed in its current form.” MONUC/MONUSCO also had a strategic impact in preventing a recurrence of a major violent conflict, by using its presence to enable other international and national actors, including the private sector, to provide services and to stimulate the local economy and support democratic politics. The role of MONUC/MONUSCO has also been critical in monitoring, reporting, collecting, and sharing information related to human rights violations to support international criminal justice and the fight against impunity, including the International Criminal Court’s prosecution of Thomas Lubanga, Germain Katanga, Bosco Ntaganda, and others.
These achievements were done despite a number of strategic constraints, including: the diminishing degree of cooperation of the host state; the role of neighboring states fueling instability; and the absence of a champion for MONUC and MONUSCO in the Security Council in order to leverage a commonly-agreed blueprint for dealing with the conflict in a comprehensive fashion.
The mission has also faced a number of operational constraints: the eternal operational and tactical challenges of not having adequate means and capacities to fulfill the mission, of having contingents unwilling to execute the given mandate, and of lacking effective leadership and poor pre- or in-mission training; the problem of multiple interpretations of what peacekeeping is and of the mandate of the mission; and the lack of a strategic communications strategy to counter misunderstandings and to explain the mandate and the mission to the Congolese people or even internally.
After the mission’s initial success against the M23 militant group, a number of operational and political challenges faced by the Force Intervention Brigade (FIB) also had an impact on the overall effectiveness of the UN mission. One was the unpreparedness of mission personnel for jungle warfare and for fighting a strategic asymmetric enemy. Related to this was a lack of capacity at headquarters and a lack of integration and coordination with the rest of MONUSCO’s contingents, who were operationally spread out and unsupported. Ultimately, the support of the FIB’s own troop-contributing countries (TCCs) has wavered over time, showing that robustness is as closely linked to political will and interest as it is to military capacity.
Since the release of the EPON report on the effectiveness of MONUSCO, the national context has changed. A new president was elected through peaceful elections, a transfer of power occurred, and the attitude of the host state towards the UN mission has shifted. In its first exchanges with representatives of the UN, the newly-elected president, Félix Tshisekedi, acknowledged the work of MONUSCO and showed that he sees the mission as a partner supporting the stabilization of the country. As underlined in the EPON report, the attitude of the host state is key to the way the UN mission will be able to implement its mandate.
The Special Representative of the Secretary-General, Leila Zerrougui, spoke onOctober 9, 2019, of “new and positive trends” on the ground “which may help to transform the Democratic Republic of the Congo into a stable country.” The issue remains whether the President Tshisekedi and his government will have the means to embark on long-term needed reforms (disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration, security sector reform, justice, rule of law). And, as underlined by the latestreportof UN Secretary-General António Guterres, “intercommunal violence and armed group activity continued to claim the lives of numerous civilians, with an upsurge in incidents in some areas in the east of the country.”
In light of the Security Council’s renewal of MONUSCO’s mandate, three issues remain at the core:
In its previous mandate renewal inresolution 2463, the Council “underscored the need to progressively transfer MONUSCO’s tasks to the Government of the DRC, the UNCT and other relevant stakeholders in order to enable the responsible and sustainable exit of MONUSCO, based on the positive evolution of the situation on the ground, and in a way that contributes to sustainable progress towards the stabilization of the DRC, consolidation of State authority and reduction of the threat posed by armed groups.” Towards this objective, it requested the secretary-general to conduct an “independent strategic review of MONUSCO assessing the continued challenges to peace and security in the DRC and articulating a phased, progressive and comprehensive exit strategy.”
Many of the people interviewed for this study (June-December 2018) were already of the opinion that the UN Security Council has toelaborate a clear exit strategyfor MONUSCO in the form of “a controlled and sound plan,” stick to this strategy along a number of benchmarks, and leave the DRC in an orderly manner with the government’s buy-in. Some other interlocutors have argued that, after about 20 years, the presence of the UN peacekeeping mission weakens the state. The longer the mission stays, the more it helps absolve the national authorities from the responsibilities of maintaining law and order, improving the living conditions of the population, and addressing the root causes of the conflict.
Nevertheless, as pointed out by the latestpolicy briefof Civilians in Conflict, “it is not the time to say good luck and pack up.” This transition will require as much attention paid by all stakeholders over the past 20 years of the UN’s continuous presence in the DRC.
DR Congo
DR Congo
DR Congo
DR Congo
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: More violence in Beni as DRC tracks new Ebola cases | CIDRAP
UN Photo, Harandane Dicko / Flickr cc
Over the weekend at least 43 people, including a pregnant woman, were killed in Beni, one of the epicenters of the Democratic Republic of the Congo's current Ebola outbreak, as officials tallied eight new cases of the deadly disease.
The rebel terrorist organization Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) likely conducted the attacks, according to the Associated Press (AP) and Al Jazeera.
Last month, clashes between the DRC's military and the ADF led the World Health Organization (WHO) to temporarily pull its Ebola response teams out of the area, after health workers were killed during the skirmishes.
The violence has made contact tracing and vaccination difficult, and have since led to an uptick of cases just weeks after WHO officials said the outbreak was almost contained.
The AP said the first attack began the night of Dec 13, when at least six people were killed in Beni, including a pregnant woman. Al Jazeera said 22 more people were killed in an attack on Dec 14, also in the same city.
All told, the AP said today that 43 people died over the weekend in Beni, including several who were shot as ADF militants went door to door in communities surrounding Beni yesterday.
According to human rights organizations interviewed by the AP, ADF's goal is to pit civilians against the DRC military. The ADF, which has been associated with the Islamic State, is active in eastern DRC.
As of today, the WHO's Ebola dashboard shows 8 new cases recorded over the weekend, including 2 cases today. The outbreak total now stands at 3,348, including 2,210 fatalities. Officials are still investigation 437 suspected cases.
Violent attacks have almost always spurred on new Ebola cases in their wake during the 17-month-long outbreak in the eastern part of the DRC.
The DRC's Ebola technical committee (CMRE) said cases over the weekend were in Mabalako.
See also:
Dec 14 APstory
Dec 15 Al Jazeerastory
Dec 16 APstory
WHO Eboladashboard
Dec 14 CMREupdate
Dec 15 CMREupdate
There was a 17% higher risk of extrasystoles, or extra heart beats, after dose one.
Rwanda's health ministry today reported two more cases, along with one more death, lifting the total to 29 cases, 10 of them fatal.
The man and his traveling companion, who reportedly had flulike symptoms, were taken to UniversityHospital Eppendorf in Hamburg.
The authors said COVID-19 infection can result in a "brainstem insult" that results in clusters of physical long-COVID symptoms.
The United States is using three-strain flu vaccines with the same components as those used in Southern Hemisphere vaccines.
Like past Marburg outbreaks, health workers have been heavily impacted, accounting for 29 of the 36 cases.
Patients with COVID-19 had a 21% greater risk of heart attack, stroke, and death than people with cardiovascular disease without COVID-19 infection.
Along with updates on recent human infections, federal officials detailed new awards for H5 vaccines, which will double the doses slated for the national stockpile.
The patient experienced conjunctivitis after contact with infected dairy cattle in the state's Central Valley.
The Sabin Vaccine Institute was able to ship the vaccine, now going into the arms of health workers, within 7 days of the Rwanda government's request.
Help make CIDRAP's vital work possible
CIDRAP - Center for Infectious Disease Research & PolicyResearch and Innovation Office, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN
Email us
© 2024 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights Reserved.The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer
Research and Innovation Office|Contact U of M|Privacy Policy
Newsletter subscribe

Title: MSN


Title: Islamist militia hack 23 civilians to death in DRC


Title: Heavy gunfire erupts as DR Congo’s anti-UN protests continue | United Nations News | Al Jazeera
At least two people reportedly killed as demonstrations continue demanding UN peacekeepers leave the Beni area.
Gunfire rang out in the DR Congo town of Beni on Monday as protesters demanding the United Nations’ withdrawal from the city again marched towards the UN headquarters.
Security forces blocked hundreds of demonstrators attempting to get close to the UN compound housed inside the airport near Beni, one of two UN bases in the area.




“The army is saying the protests are no longer peaceful. They will not accept protesters to gather anywhere near the UN compound,”Al Jazeera’s Alain Uaykani said after attending a press conference by the military on Monday.
“They are saying the enemy are the rebels.The rebels are the ones killing civilians. The UN is not the enemy, that is what the army is saying. The army is expected to deploy more troops on the ground from tomorrow,” Uaykani said.
Anger erupted last week over the perceived failure of UN peacekeepers to protect civilians from deadly rebel attacks with several mass demonstrations targeting UN facilities in northeasternDemocratic Republic of the Congo(DRC).




On Friday, at least 19 people were killed by attackers believed to be from the feared Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), an armed group operating in the dense forests bordering Uganda. Many of the victims were hacked to death or beheaded, according to local rights groups.
Eight Beni residents were killed late on November 24 by suspected ADF fighters, prompting angry protesters to take to the streets.
Last Monday, four people were killed in clashes with security forces after angry demonstrators torched the mayor’s office and attacked several UN buildings in Beni.
Christoph Vogel, a researcher at the University of Ghent, Brussels and a former UN expert on DRC, said the situation was extremely concerning with the deadly attacks that began in 2014 and the ongoing Ebola outbreak.
“There is a mismatch between the UN mandate and the reality on the ground,” Vogel told Al Jazeera.
“We also need to see that DR Congo is a huge country and we still have less than 20,000 peacekeepers – most of them with a very restricted mandate. That explains in part the failure to better protect civilians.”
Demonstrators accuse both the DRC’s security forces and MONUSCO – one of the world’s biggest peacekeeping missions that has operated in DR Congo for the past two decades – of not doing enough to stop rebel attacks on civilians.
“While the army is doing its best to neutralise the ADF rebellion, the rebels are preying on defenceless civilians by way of revenge,” said Donat Kibwana, administrator of the territory of Beni, on Sunday.
Many of the victims have been hacked to death or beheaded, according to local rights and civil society groups.




The DRC’s volatile east is home to many armed groups, including ADF, vying for control of the mineral-rich region.
Nearly a month ago, the DRC’s armed forces announced they had launched an offensive to wipe out armed groups in eastern DRC.
Since then, dozens of civilians in the region have been killed, according to officials. During previous military operations against the ADF, its fighters retaliated by attacking civilians, local activists say.
Violence in the region is hampering efforts to halt the spread of the Ebola virus, which has killed 2,200 people since August 2018.
International organisations warned on Friday of a potential resurgence of the virus after deadly militia attacks on health centres forced aid groups to suspend operations and withdraw staff from the epidemic’s last strongholds.









Follow Al Jazeera English:

Title: Mnangagwa Condemns Attacks On Civilians In DRC As Own Country Burns – ZimEye



ZimEye
Emmerson Mnangagwa, in his capacity as the chairman of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) Organ on Politics, Defence and Security Cooperation has denounced attacks on civilians in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) by Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) a rebel group in Uganda and DRC.
Reports suggest that the attacks resulted in the death of about 80 civilians thereby triggering the violent demonstrations against United Nations Organisation Stabilisation Mission in the DRC (MONUSCO) peacekeepers.
In a statement, Mnangagwa expressed condolences to the government and the People of DRC, as well as the bereaved families. Part of the statement reads:
The attacks in Beni have resulted in the death of approximately 80 people, as well as the injury and displacement of many people.
SADC is resolute in voicing its condemnation of the attacks that the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) continue to perpetrate on the civilian population in the DRC.
These remarks have attracted criticism from Zimbabwean observers who said that Mnangagwa was “hypocritical” since he “unleashed a reign of terror” on civilians back home.Analysts also observed that the democratic space in Zimbabwe has been diminishing lately.Credit:NewsDay

ZimEye is a spread out media-network market of professionals in various fields that include arts & journalism as practiced by many of its subscribers scattered across the globe. The objective is to expose at close range facts, myths, commentaries, and news-centric developments on Zimbabwe and Africa at large.
© Copyright 2024 – ZimEye.net | ZimEye.org | ZimEye.com –Privacy Policy

Title: Mnangagwa Denounces Killing Of Civilians – ZimEye



ZimEye
Emmerson Mnangagwa, in his capacity as the chairman of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) Organ on Politics, Defence and Security Cooperation has denounced attacks on civilians in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) by Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) a rebel group in Uganda and DRC.
Reports suggest that the attacks resulted in the death of about 80 civilians thereby triggering the violent demonstrations against United Nations Organisation Stabilisation Mission in the DRC (MONUSCO) peacekeepers.
In a statement, Mnangagwa expressed condolences to the government and the People of DRC, as well as the bereaved families. Part of the statement reads:
The attacks in Beni have resulted in the death of approximately 80 people, as well as the injury and displacement of many people.
SADC is resolute in voicing its condemnation of the attacks that the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) continue to perpetrate on the civilian population in the DRC.
These remarks have attracted criticism from Zimbabwean observers who said that Mnangagwa was “hypocritical” since he “unleashed a reign of terror” on civilians back home.Analysts also observed that the democratic space in Zimbabwe has been diminishing lately.Credit:NewsDay

ZimEye is a spread out media-network market of professionals in various fields that include arts & journalism as practiced by many of its subscribers scattered across the globe. The objective is to expose at close range facts, myths, commentaries, and news-centric developments on Zimbabwe and Africa at large.
© Copyright 2024 – ZimEye.net | ZimEye.org | ZimEye.com –Privacy Policy

Title: DRC army claims fresh win against Hutu Rwandan militia
BUKAVU, DR Congo: The army in DR Congo said on Sunday it has driven out Hutu Rwandan rebels from their bases in the east of the country, a few weeks after having killed their leader.Troops launched a campaign on Tuesday against the CNRD — an offshoot of the FDLR militia — in South Kivu region, which borders Rwanda and Burundi, military spokesman Dieudonne Kasereka told AFP.“Since Saturday, we have dislodged these rebels from their headquarters and recaptured all the areas that were previously under their control,” he added. The rebels had fled towards the National Park of Kahuzi Biega, and the army will launch a major operation to flush them out and destroy them, said Kasereka.The park, which lies 30 kilometres (20 miles) west of Bukavu, and its 600 square kilometres is the last refuge of the lowland gorilla, an endangered species. In mid-September the army announced it had killed Sylvestre Mudacumura, commander of the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR). He was wanted by the International Criminal Court on war crimes charges. On November 10, they said they had killed another FDLR leader, Musabimana Juvenal, also known as General Jean-Michel Africa.The FDLR was created by Rwandan Hutu refugees in eastern DRC after the 1994 genocide of Tutsis by the majority Hutus in Rwanda. According to the United Nations, at the beginning of 2019, the force numbered between 500 and 600 active fighters.
Troops launched a campaign on Tuesday against the CNRD — an offshoot of the FDLR militia — in South Kivu region, which borders Rwanda and Burundi, military spokesman Dieudonne Kasereka told AFP.“Since Saturday, we have dislodged these rebels from their headquarters and recaptured all the areas that were previously under their control,” he added. The rebels had fled towards the National Park of Kahuzi Biega, and the army will launch a major operation to flush them out and destroy them, said Kasereka.The park, which lies 30 kilometres (20 miles) west of Bukavu, and its 600 square kilometres is the last refuge of the lowland gorilla, an endangered species. In mid-September the army announced it had killed Sylvestre Mudacumura, commander of the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR). He was wanted by the International Criminal Court on war crimes charges. On November 10, they said they had killed another FDLR leader, Musabimana Juvenal, also known as General Jean-Michel Africa.The FDLR was created by Rwandan Hutu refugees in eastern DRC after the 1994 genocide of Tutsis by the majority Hutus in Rwanda. According to the United Nations, at the beginning of 2019, the force numbered between 500 and 600 active fighters.
“Since Saturday, we have dislodged these rebels from their headquarters and recaptured all the areas that were previously under their control,” he added. The rebels had fled towards the National Park of Kahuzi Biega, and the army will launch a major operation to flush them out and destroy them, said Kasereka.The park, which lies 30 kilometres (20 miles) west of Bukavu, and its 600 square kilometres is the last refuge of the lowland gorilla, an endangered species. In mid-September the army announced it had killed Sylvestre Mudacumura, commander of the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR). He was wanted by the International Criminal Court on war crimes charges. On November 10, they said they had killed another FDLR leader, Musabimana Juvenal, also known as General Jean-Michel Africa.The FDLR was created by Rwandan Hutu refugees in eastern DRC after the 1994 genocide of Tutsis by the majority Hutus in Rwanda. According to the United Nations, at the beginning of 2019, the force numbered between 500 and 600 active fighters.
The park, which lies 30 kilometres (20 miles) west of Bukavu, and its 600 square kilometres is the last refuge of the lowland gorilla, an endangered species. In mid-September the army announced it had killed Sylvestre Mudacumura, commander of the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR). He was wanted by the International Criminal Court on war crimes charges. On November 10, they said they had killed another FDLR leader, Musabimana Juvenal, also known as General Jean-Michel Africa.The FDLR was created by Rwandan Hutu refugees in eastern DRC after the 1994 genocide of Tutsis by the majority Hutus in Rwanda. According to the United Nations, at the beginning of 2019, the force numbered between 500 and 600 active fighters.
The FDLR was created by Rwandan Hutu refugees in eastern DRC after the 1994 genocide of Tutsis by the majority Hutus in Rwanda. According to the United Nations, at the beginning of 2019, the force numbered between 500 and 600 active fighters.
A cook prepares pasta Carbonara at "La Carbonara" restaurant in Campo de' Fiori in Rome, Italy, December 14, 2023. —...
Former President Barack Obama hugs Vice President Kamala Harris during an event to mark the 2010 passage of the...
A hand is seen on a laptop with binary codes displayed in front of the USA flag in this illustration taken, August 19,...
India's Home Minister Amit Shah pays his respect as he attends the final viewing of the former chairman of Tata Group...
US President Donald Trump meets with Russian President Vladimir Putin at the G20 Summit in Osaka, Japan June 28, 2019....
Author Han Kang.— AFP/file  STOCKHOLM: Author Han Kang on Thursday became the first South Korean to win the Nobel...
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: DRC army claims fresh win against Hutu Rwandan militia | Pulse Ghana
The army in DR Congo said Sunday it has driven out Hutu Rwandan rebels from their bases in the east of the country, a few weeks after having killed their leader.
Troops launched a campaign Tuesday against the CNRD -- an offshoot of the FDLR militia -- in South Kivu region, which borders Rwanda and Burundi, military spokesman Dieudonne Kasereka told AFP.
"Since Saturday, we have dislodged these rebels from their headquarters and recaptured all the areas that were previously under their control," he added.
The rebels had fled towards the National Park of Kahuzi Biega, and the army will launch a major operation to flush them out and destroy them, said Kasereka.
The park, which lies 30 kilometres (20 miles) west of Bukavu, and its 600 square kilometres is the last refuge of the lowland gorilla, an endangered species.
In mid-September the army announced it had killed Sylvestre Mudacumura, commander of the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR). He was wanted by the International Criminal Court on war crimes charges.
On November 10, they said they had killed another FDLR leader, Musabimana Juvenal, also known as General Jean-Michel Africa.
The FDLR was created by Rwandan Hutu refugees in eastern DRC after the 1994 genocide of Tutsis by the majority Hutus in Rwanda.
According to the United Nations, at the beginning of 2019, the force numbered between 500 and 600 active fighters.
Scattered across the mineral-rich eastern Congolese provinces of North and South Kivu as well as in southern Katanga, its fighters have been regularly accused of committing atrocities against civilians.
These recent army operations against the Hutu militia in the Democratic Republic of Congo have been welcomed in neighbouring Rwanda, which has been frequently targeted by attacks from the rebel Hutu Rwandan force.
At the end of October, government troops launched an operation against another rebel militia, the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a shadowy armed group with links to Ugandan Islamists.
This operation is taking place in the North Kivu region that borders Rwanda and Uganda, in response to a series of massacres the ADF has carried out against civilians.
ro-st/jj/wdb
Welcome to the Pulse Community! We will now be sending you a daily newsletter on news, entertainment and more.   Also join us across all of our other channels - we love to be connected!
Eyewitness? Submit your stories now via social or:
Email:eyewitness@pulse.com.gh

Title: DRC army claims fresh win against Hutu Rwandan militia – Nehanda Radio

Welcome, Login to your account.
Recover your password.
A password will be e-mailed to you.
Nehanda Radio - Zimbabwe News and Internet Radio
The army in DR Congo said Sunday it has driven out Hutu Rwandan rebels from their bases in the east of the country, a few weeks after having killed their leader.
Troops launched a campaign Tuesday against the CNRD — an offshoot of the FDLR militia — in South Kivu region, which borders Rwanda and Burundi, military spokesman Dieudonne Kasereka told AFP.
“Since Saturday, we have dislodged these rebels from their headquarters and recaptured all the areas that were previously under their control,” he added.
The rebels had fled towards the National Park of Kahuzi Biega, and the army will launch a major operation to flush them out and destroy them, said Kasereka.
The park, which lies 30 kilometres (20 miles) west of Bukavu, and its 600 square kilometres is the last refuge of the lowland gorilla, an endangered species.
At least 129 people killed during mass prison break attempt…
DR Congo elections: Fayulu’s supporters clash with…
DRC government blames ADF rebels for church bombing which…
Patrice Lumumba: DR Congo buries tooth of independence hero
In mid-September the army announced it had killed Sylvestre Mudacumura, commander of the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR). He was wanted by the International Criminal Court on war crimes charges.
On November 10, they said they had killed another FDLR leader, Musabimana Juvenal, also known as General Jean-Michel Africa.
The FDLR was created by Rwandan Hutu refugees in eastern DRC after the 1994 genocide of Tutsis by the majority Hutus in Rwanda.
According to the United Nations, at the beginning of 2019, the force numbered between 500 and 600 active fighters.
Scattered across the mineral-rich eastern Congolese provinces of North and South Kivu as well as in southern Katanga, its fighters have been regularly accused of committing atrocities against civilians.
These recent army operations against the Hutu militia in the Democratic Republic of Congo have been welcomed in neighbouring Rwanda, which has been frequently targeted by attacks from the rebel Hutu Rwandan force.
At the end of October, government troops launched an operation against another rebel militia, the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a shadowy armed group with links to Ugandan Islamists.
This operation is taking place in the North Kivu region that borders Rwanda and Uganda, in response to a series of massacres the ADF has carried out against civilians.AFP
Prev Post
‘Weak’ Cannavaro guides Guangzhou to Chinese league title
Next Post
Tunisian bus plunges off cliff, killing at least 24
At least 129 people killed during mass prison break attempt in DR Congo
DR Congo elections: Fayulu’s supporters clash with police in Kinshasa
DRC government blames ADF rebels for church bombing which killed 10
Patrice Lumumba: DR Congo buries tooth of independence hero
DR Congo says Rwandan soldiers captured by villagers and not rebels
M23 rebels in DR Congo deny shooting down UN helicopter
Latest Articles
Bhundu Boys founder Rise Kagona to be buried in Zimbabwe…
Daisy Mtukudzi’s new Toyota Fortuner suffers…
Nees secures first victory as Billiat’s goal inspires…
Tributes continue to pour in for comedian Shatrisha Vibes…
‘Heaven Army Commander’ Talent Madungwe…
Most Commented Today
Zimbabwe tightens exchange controls to curb money laundering
Devastating fire engulfs Mbare Musika market in Harare
Bhundu Boys founder Rise Kagona to be buried in Zimbabwe…
Pastor Mboro turns to music … releases amapiano song…
Drama in SA as Jah Signal refuses to leave hotel room,…
Bhundu Boys founder Rise Kagona to be buried in Zimbabwe…
Daisy Mtukudzi’s new Toyota Fortuner suffers…
Nees secures first victory as Billiat’s goal inspires…
Tributes continue to pour in for comedian Shatrisha Vibes…
‘Heaven Army Commander’ Talent Madungwe…
‘Financially struggling’ Namibia to host…
Editorial:[email protected]Advertising:[email protected]Whatsapp: +447748665050
Welcome, Login to your account.
Recover your password.
A password will be e-mailed to you.
You must belogged into post a comment.

Title: Home | Monitor
Hello
Your subscription is almost coming to an end. Don’t miss out on the great content on Nation.Africa
Ready to continue your informative journey with us?
Hello
Your premium access has ended, but the best of Nation.Africa is still within reach. Renew now to unlock exclusive stories and in-depth features.
Reclaim your full access. Click below to renew.
Subscribe fora month to get full access
The funding will enhance coordination, surveillance, risk communication, and community engagement
Top Catholic leadership has not yet responded to the new figures; however, Rev Fr Kyumakiyaka says the numbers released by Ubos do not only point to a decline in the Catholic faith because many...
Justice Musa Ssekaana ruled in favour of the National Resistance Movement's (NRM) Yasini Omari Assini, declaring him the winner
Coach Paul Put is expected to retain custodian Ismail Watenga in goal after his impressive performance against Congo.
Moses Ejangu pleaded guilty, claiming he was coerced by his bosses, while Denis Juko denied involvement but admitted receiving information about the materials via WhatsApp
We all have a stake in making Uganda a better place for us and our posterity
Arnold Mutebi says most, if not all cars show signs that require immediate attention
Under the Registration of Persons Act, 2015, government authorises some key service providers, such as financial institutions and telecoms, to access personal data held by NIRA
A family spokesperson said Houston was surrounded by family as she passed away at her Newark, New Jersey home on Monday (October 7) while under hospice care for Alzheimer's disease
Ms Namata says online attacks have a spilling effect on the physical and emotional wellness of online activists
Tooro Golf Club (TGC) is one of Uganda’s oldest and most revered, producing multiple national champions and generously contributing to Uganda’s national teams
Nation Media Group © 2024
It's free!
Access the best of Monitor's Independent Journalism

Title: DRC army claims fresh win against Hutu Rwandan militia - JusticeInfo.net
The army in DR Congo said Sunday it has driven out Hutu Rwandan rebels from their bases in the east of the country, a few weeks after having killed their leader.
Troops launched a campaign Tuesday against the CNRD -- an offshoot of the FDLR militia -- in South Kivu region, which borders Rwanda and Burundi, military spokesman Dieudonne Kasereka told AFP.
"Since Saturday, we have dislodged these rebels from their headquarters and recaptured all the areas that were previously under their control," he added.
The rebels had fled towards the National Park of Kahuzi Biega, and the army will launch a major operation to flush them out and destroy them, said Kasereka.
The park, which lies 30 kilometres (20 miles) west of Bukavu, and its 600 square kilometres is the last refuge of the lowland gorilla, an endangered species.
In mid-September the army announced it had killed Sylvestre Mudacumura, commander of the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR). He was wanted by the International Criminal Court on war crimes charges.
On November 10, they said they had killed another FDLR leader, Musabimana Juvenal, also known as General Jean-Michel Africa.
The FDLR was created by Rwandan Hutu refugees in eastern DRC after the 1994 genocide of Tutsis by the majority Hutus in Rwanda.
According to the United Nations, at the beginning of 2019, the force numbered between 500 and 600 active fighters.
Scattered across the mineral-rich eastern Congolese provinces of North and South Kivu as well as in southern Katanga, its fighters have been regularly accused of committing atrocities against civilians.
These recent army operations against the Hutu militia in the Democratic Republic of Congo have been welcomed in neighbouring Rwanda, which has been frequently targeted by attacks from the rebel Hutu Rwandan force.
At the end of October, government troops launched an operation against another rebel militia, the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a shadowy armed group with links to Ugandan Islamists.
This operation is taking place in the North Kivu region that borders Rwanda and Uganda, in response to a series of massacres the ADF has carried out against civilians.
VIDEO in partnership with IFJD

Title: Mateke’s Links to Anti Rwanda Armed Groups Date Way Back – KT PRESS
Philemon Mateke(Left) and  Habumukiza Theoneste, his sponsored militiaman who said is a university graduate. He was part of Musanze attacks by RUD Urunana, October 3,2019
When the second meeting of the AdHoc Commission for the implementation of the Luanda Memorandum of Understanding convened in Kampala on Friday, Rwanda tabled seven key issues it has with Kampala that must be addressed if relations are to get back on track.
The head of Rwanda’s delegation Amb. Olivier Nduhungirehe laid bare each issue and went on to support it with evidence. It is no wonder that after more than 8 hours behind closed doors, the two countries could not agree on issues hence no post-talks statement.
Not even the Ugandan Minister of Foreign Affairs Sam Kutesa could address the issues raised by Rwanda or make commitments even though he proposed a joint verification mechanism to investigate all the issues but ultimately the issues will be referred to the Heads of State.
A source privy to discussions told KT Press that the Ugandan delegation was shocked by the damning evidence Minister Nduhungirehe put on the table particularly pinning Uganda on supporting armed groups seeking to destabilise Rwanda.
“Support to armed groups attempting to wreak terror on Rwanda, and illegal detention of Rwandans in Uganda has not ceased,” Nduhungirehe said, adding that “operatives and leaders of these groups continue to receive facilitation and safe passage in Uganda including by senior officials of the Government,”
Nduhungirehe went on to reveal details unknown before, linking the Ugandan Minister of State for Regional Cooperation, Mateke Philemon, to the October attacks by armed groups in Musanze and Burera districts in Northern Province.
“During the night of 3rd leading to 4th October 2019, a deadly terror attack was carried out by a militia group known as RUD-Urunana, in the Kinigi sector of Musanze District, Northern Province,”
“The attack was launched from eastern DRC, close to the Ugandan border and the Volcanoes National Park. Most of the attackers were killed. Some were captured alive,” Nduhungirehe said, adding that an assortment of material evidence, including phone handsets, and testimonies of captured attackers, was collected.
“One Ugandan telephone number appeared to have been in contact with the attackers both before and during the attack. And this number has been found to belong to the Hon Mateke Philemon, Uganda’s Minister of State for Regional Cooperation,” Nduhungirehe told the meeting.
Sources say it was an embarrassing moment for the Ugandan team and could not make commitments to address the issues especially after one of their own was implicated –the source said the Ugandan delegation decided to first discuss the issues with President Yoweri Museveni.
Nduhungirehe emphasised the same issue of Uganda backing armed groups fighting the Rwandan government. At the post-meeting press conference, a seemingly cornered Kutesa could not find an appropriate answer.
“We also discussed issues that Uganda raised, like attempts to infiltrate our security agencies, issues like the closure of the border by Rwanda,” Minister Kutesa said, yet again diverting the conversation to the closure of the border by Rwanda, despite earlier Nduhungirehe warning that Uganda should stop making the issue about the border.
Minister Kutesa avoided addressing the issues Rwanda raised including evidence such as the three of the attackers of Musanze and Burera fleeing to Kisoro District in Uganda, where they stayed briefly, before being evacuated to Makenke Barracks in Mbarara District.
They were later transferred to the CMI headquarters in Mbuya, Kampala. Rwanda’s High Commission in Uganda sent a note verbale on the issue on 14th October 2019. It remains unanswered to date.
The revelations were so damning that even the head of CMI Brig. Gen Abel Kandiho, who has been individually fingered for backing these groups including Rwanda National Congress (RNC), who was present at the meeting could not deny them.
Minister Kutesa however made a blank statement saying that Uganda would never support groups seeking to destabilise Rwanda.
“As Uganda, we will never support any force destabilising or that seeks to destabilise any of our neighbours including Rwanda,” he said, adding that Kampala would take interest in the issues and investigate them, adding that they will refer the matters to the heads of state.
Mateke and armed groups
It is not the first time the name of the elderly Ugandan Minister has been brought to the fore by a number of reports linking him to the armed groups fighting the government of Rwanda.
In March this year, it was reported that President Museveni had tasked Mateke to hold a coordination meeting in Kampala between the RNC and the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR).
Around that time, the spokesperson of the FDLR, Ignace Nkaka aka Laforge Bazeye Fils and the chief of intelligence, Lt. Col. Nsekanabo Jean Pierre alias Abega Kamala, were intercepted at the Bunagana border with the DRC on their way from the meeting in Kampala.
DRC officials handed them over to Rwanda and among the things they revealed is Museveni’s commitment that the RNC and FDLR join their forces in order to give the impression that those opposed to Kagame reflect a broad base of Rwandans from the main ethnic groups of Hutus and Tutsis.
As recent as last month, Mateke’s name was echoed again as the coordinator of the anti-Rwanda activities in Uganda and behind the recent wave of arrests and deportations in Kisoro district.
He reportedly oversaw a quick trial and deportation of 12 Rwandans  Pacifique Munyaneza, Vedaste Murasanyi, Estien Niyongabo, Felicien Nsengimana, Jean De Dieu Habumugisha, Emmanuel Dusabimana, John Nsengimana, Bosco Nshimiye, Cornille Ntezimana, Joshua Iradukunda, Stephen Harindimana, and Eric Twinomujuni.
The dozen were among the 35 Rwandans that recently were moved from CMI’s torture dungeons to different Ugandan police stations. They were handed over to the Kisoro Magistrate Court on Wednesday, 30 October.
Mateke is reported to have entered the court premises and ordered the magistrate and state attorney to sentence them for a long time.
The politician has also been named several times by combatants arrested in DRC and handed over to Rwanda, with some remarking that he openly expresses his distaste of the current Rwandan government.
Despite his name appearing in a number of reports linking him to armed groups hostile to the Rwandan government, the Ugandan government has not taken any action. It is not the first time Mateke has manifested his hate for Rwanda.
In the early 80’s, Mateke who was then a strong politicians under President Milton Obote’s government is said to have been behind the move to chase Rwandan refugees out of Uganda. He is also said to be seeing Rwandan politics in the mirror of Hutu and Tutsi.
A source in the Kampala meeting told KT Press that the Ugandan delegation knew President Museveni was aware of the issues Rwanda raised, pointing out that only him can advise on the way forward, even though Ugandan actions are said to be deliberate.


@ KT PRESS 2014 - 2024 . All Right Reserved.