Title: Sudan's RSF militia, ICRC sign agreement - Sudan Tribune
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
ICRC, RSF officials sign a MoU on training of the International Humanitarian Law, with the presence of RSF Commander on December 14, 2021.
December 14, 2021 (KHARTOUM) – The Rapid Support Forces (RSF)  in Sudan and the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) Tuesday signed an agreement to support the integration of the rules of international humanitarian law in the training of the notorious militia.
The memorandum of understanding was signed by Brig Gen Mohamed Ahmed Abbas Ornaser, Director of the Human Rights Training Department, and Pascal Cuttat, the head of the ICRC delegation in Sudan.
The signing ceremony was attended by the RSF Commander Mohamed Hamdan Daglo (Hemetti) who described the agreement as a “strategic step” in line with the ongoing efforts to establish trained forces committed to international law.
The RSF which is officially tasked with combating illegal migration and illicit human trafficking have been established to protect the al-Bashi regime and fight rebel armed groups.
The forces, which grew out of the Janjaweed militias that committed atrocities and war crimes in Darfur, have been involved in the bloody attacks on peaceful protesters in Khartoum after the collapse of the former regime.
Hemetti still resists efforts to integrate his militiamen into the national army as provided in the constitutional declaration governing the transition.
In a tweet posted after the signing of the MoU, Cuttat said the two parties would work together to ensure that RSF officers and soldiers are trained on “the scope and applicability of the Geneva Conventions and other provisions of Human Rights Law”.
The ICRC used to engage in dialogue with armed and security forces and rebels groups worldwide to promote respect for the basic rules of international humanitarian law.
(ST)


Copyright @ 2024 | Sudan Tribune. All rights reserved.

Title: Sudan: Call to designate RSF-Janjaweed as terrorist | Green Left
Jump to navigation
The Rapid Support Forces (RSF) in Sudan, also known as the Janjaweed, displaced millions and played a dominant role in the Darfur conflict in which an estimated 300,000 civilians were killed.
RSF leader, Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, known as Hemedti, is a prominent figure, and featured in the International Criminal Court investigation into allegations of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes in Darfur.
The RSF also played a role in the massacre [of peaceful protesters, who had staged a sit-in] outside the Army’s headquarters in the capital, Khartoum, on June 3, 2019. RSF members then brutally attacked peaceful demonstrators in various cities and rural parts of Sudan in the days that followed. Its role continues today, with more than 40 people brutally killed and hundreds injured since the military coup on October 25.
See alsoSolidarity shown to Sudan’s struggle against oppressionSudan: The people resist the coup
The RFS receives funds directly from the Sudanese government however, its finances are not controlled by the military nor the civilian elements of the government. RSF militia took advantage of the economic and political chaos in the country to diversify its sources of income and took control of the gold mines in Jebel Amer in North Darfur, the Singo mines in South Darfur, and other mining areas. Those mines in Darfur belong to Sudanese people, but are controlled by RSF guns.
In order to meet the rising costs of weapons and equipment, administrative expenses and salaries for its members, the RSF engages in illegal activities ranging from smuggling to drug trafficking, and various activities such as livestock and agricultural exports through its economic arm, the Al-Junaid Company. Hemedti’s brother chairs the company’s board.
RSF militias are also engaged in the so-called fight against illegal immigration, along Sudan’s north-west border with Libya, the main gateway for smuggling immigrants from Sudan and the countries of the Horn of Africa to Europe.
In addition, a key source of income for the leadership of the RSF militias is from work as professional mercenaries. RSF mercenaries constitute the largest forces on the ground in the war in Yemen and along the southern border of Saudi Arabia. According to Hemedti, 30,000 RSF mercenaries are fighting in Yemen at the request of the United Arab Emirates.
Hemedti sits at the apex of a “paramilitary-industrial complex”. He controls both a huge, powerful military force, and an independent source of wealth. Exposing the workings of the RSF’s financial network is a crucial step towards combatting its economic power. For Sudan to pursue a peaceful democratic transition, Hemedti and his forces need to be removed from this dual position. It is vital to ensure civilian oversight of military spending, and to give the Sudanese people greater control over the country’s natural resources – which are now dominated by the RSF and other security forces within Sudan.
The international community, the United Nations and its Security Council and all organisations concerned with maintaining international peace and human rights must pay attention to this imminent danger, as they are cross-border militias, with fighters in Chad, Mali, Niger and Central Africa.
It is time to act to dismantle the Janjaweed militias and freeze their assets, to ensure a transition to civilian and democratic government that many in Sudan yearn for.
[Translated from Arabic.]
Green Leftis funded by contributions from readers and supporters. Help us reach our funding target.
Make aOne-off Donationor choose from one of our Monthly Donation options.
Become a supporterto get the digital edition for $5 per month or the print edition for $10 per month.One-time paymentoptions are available.
You can also call1800 634 206to make a donation or to become a supporter. Thank you.
As Green Left turns 30, we need to reflect on the enormous role played by it in actively resisting capitalism’s mass propaganda. A 100% people-powered project, the weekly serves as a blueprint for what a bottom-up antidote to corporate media can look like.
Defending the CFMEU, NDIS bill betrayal & socialists on council | Green Left News Podcast
Refugee encampments & Palestine solidarity in Latin America | Green Left News Podcast
Labor's CFMEU laws: 'The worst anti-union legislation in my life' | Green Left Show #41
Closing the Gap, far-right riots in Britain & US elections | Green Left News Podcast
Jordon Steele-John: 'Betrayal, Failure and Harm' - NDIS Bill & Disability Royal Commission
MUA pledges to stand by the CFMEU
Tens of thousands rally against 'unholy alliance' attacking the militant CFMEU
Young CFMEU delegate speaks out at Palestine rally
Refugee encampments & Palestine solidarity in Latin America | Green Left News Podcast #49
Labor's CFMEU laws: 'The worst anti-union legislation in my life' | Green Left Show #41
In a desperately unequal world facing a climate emergency, everyone has to pick a side.
Our side is — and always will be — that of the 99%.
Our goal is not only to expose the lies, hypocrisy and bias of the billionaire class and their media: we seek to help the organising efforts of all those actively resisting the increasingly authoritarian rule of the corporate rich, here and overseas.
Read more aboutGreen Left.
© 2023, Green Left. All rights reserved.
Authorisation for electoral content by Neville Spencer, Suite 1.07, 22-36 Mountain St, Ultimo, NSW, 2007.

Title: Sudan military court orders Darfur Border Guards leader released - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Sudan’s military authorities released Lt Col Ali Rizgallah, aka El Safana, a prominent member of the Revolutionary Awakening Council (RAC)* on Sunday, after five years in detention.El Savana was captured in November 2017, after fierce military battles with the militiamen of the ousted National Congress Party in the vicinity of the Kawra Mountains in North Darfur. He was transferred to the military prison in Khartoum, where he remained until his release on Sunday, in implementation of a decision of the Judge of the Military Court.
Sudan’s military authorities released Lt Col Ali Rizgallah, aka El Safana, a prominent member of the Revolutionary Awakening Council (RAC)* on Sunday, after five years in detention.
El Savana wascaptured in November 2017, after fierce military battles with the militiamen of the ousted National Congress Party in the vicinity of the Kawra Mountains in North Darfur. He was transferred to the military prison in Khartoum, where he remained until his release on Sunday, in implementation of a decision of the Judge of the Military Court.
At the time of his arrest in 2017, Rizgallah was the leader of a faction that defected from the Border Guards, a militia armed by the government in Darfur, that officially fell under Sudanese military command. Its members were affiliated with former janjaweed leaderMusa Hilal, until Hilal distanced himself from the government in mid-2013.
Both Hilal and Rizgallah strongly opposed the planned integration of the Darfur Border Guards into the Rapid Support Forces (RSF), Sudan’s main paramilitary force, as part of a disarmament campaign in Darfur and Kordofan.
Musa Hilal, the former janjaweed leader and head of the RAC wasreleased by Sudanese authoritiesin March this year following more than three years in detention.
*RAC
In early 2003, when Darfuri rebels took up arms against the government, Khartoum assigned Musa Hilal, chief of the Arab Mahameed clan in North Darfur, as the main recruiter of militant Arabs (popularly called janjaweed) in Darfur. With the full backing of the government, his militiamen targeted unarmed African Darfuri villagers, but they rarely came near forces of the rebel movements.
Hilal’sstance towards the governmentchanged over the years. Mid 2013, he returned from Khartoum to his base in North Darfur, where his fighters, mainly members of the paramilitary Border Guards, began to attack government forces and allied militias.
Hilal established the RAC, consisting of native administration leaders and militants from various tribes in north-western Darfur, in Saraf Omrain March 2014. According to a UN Security Council reportin April this year, he and his men are profiting from vast gold sales in Darfur.
In July, the Sudanese government announced a nationwide disarmament campaign, to be started in Darfur and Kordofan. The army and the allied RSF militia have been tasked with collecting illegal arms and unlicensed vehicles from civilians in both regions.
According to the RAC, the disarmament of civilians in Darfur “clearly targets Sheikh Musa Hilal and his tribe”. TheBorder Guardshave opposedthe plan from the start. They have also rejected plans to dissolve the various government militias in the country and integrate the members with the RSF.
Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: Sudan: Hemeti offers reminder of military's power with border threat to Europe | Middle East Eye
Sudanese military leader General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, widely known asHemeti, has told theUnited StatesandEuropean Unionhis country can cause the world a “big problem” by opening its borders.
The warning was delivered in an interview withPoliticoon Wednesday, as the commander of the powerful Rapid Support Forces (RSF) militia told western nations they could face an influx of migrants from Africa if they didn’t support the post-coup military administration inSudan.
“Because of our commitment to the international community and the law, we are keeping these people together,” Hemeti said, speaking via video-call from Khartoum. “If Sudan will open the border, a big problem will happen worldwide.”
Deputy to Sudanese army general and de facto head of stateAbdel Fattah al-Burhan, Hemeti was leader of the notorious Janjaweed militias held partly responsible for the systematic mass killing of people in Darfur, accusations he describes in the Politico interview as "fake news".
The RSF grew out of the Janjaweed, and Hemeti now holds vast amounts of power and wealth from his position as the leader of the militia, controllinggold mines in Darfurand enjoying the patronage of rulers in the UAE and Saudi Arabia.
The power enjoyed by the RSF extends to an involvement, along with Sudan’s army and intelligence services, with people-smuggling networks and the control of Sudan’s borders.
Behind Hemeti’s veiled threat to European leaders is the power the Sudanese military has to unblock its border with Eritrea, which would send a stream of migrants and refugees from the embattled Horn of Africa nation up throughLibyato the Mediterranean.
With European officials looking to clamp down on migration into the continent - and with the EU having paid countries like Libya,Turkeyand Sudan to keep people out for years now - analysts told MEE Hemeti was deliberately targeting a weak point in Europe's armour.
“I think it’s within Hemeti’s power to do this,” said Cameron Hudson, a former US State Department official and Atlantic Council fellow. “It’s also not beneath him to do that. It’s in keeping with his character. He’s a mercenary. He will tell himself he’s willing to use human beings as pawns in a game he’s playing.”
Signed in November 2014, theKhartoum Processinitially established cooperation between European nations and the Sudanese government of former autocrat Omar al-Bashir, who was ousted in 2019 after decades in power. Burhan and Hemeti were both trusted lieutenants of Bashir.
Since 2015, Sudan has been allocated hundreds of millions of euros by an EU trust fund. In exchange, the Sudanese army, the RSF and the intelligence services provided tougher border control, extending the borders of Fortress Europe further into Africa.
'I think it’s within Hemeti’s power to do this... He will tell himself he's willing to use human beings as pawns in a game he's playing'
-Cameron Hudson, former US official
For the National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS) - now rebranded as the General Intelligence Services (GIS) - this was a golden opportunity to become heavilyinvolved with people smugglingand to violently clampdown on potential dissidents who wanted to flee Bashir's authoritarian regime or,in some cases, Sudanese exiles who had already made it to Europe.
Patrick Smith, editor of Africa Confidential, told MEE that “Hemeti’s take on the Khartoum Process is a powerful one. You’ve got to say that the EU has engaged with him and that its main concern is migration.”
In the days following Bashir’s ousting by a popular uprising, EU officials were flying into Khartoum - their priority, according to sources in Brussels, was meeting not with civilian leaders, but with Hemeti.
Sudan hosts more than 3.6 million displaced people,according to the UN, while nearly seven million Sudanese and South Sudanese people have been forcibly displaced, either within their own country or throughout the region. Many of the migrants who try to pass through Libya to Europe are Sudanese.
Initially reluctant to publicly demonstrate his wholehearted support for the 25 October coup enacted by Burhan, Hemeti has since emerged from the shadows, with analysts telling Middle East Eye his interview with Politico is part of an orchestrated campaign to safeguard his position and secure international support for the Sudanese military.
In an attempt to cast himself as a more trusted international interlocutor Hemeti has also, Smith said, “positioned himself as the non-Islamist nationalist, as compared to the card-carrying Islamist Burhan”, who was a major figure in Bashir’s Islamist National Congress Party.
The personal rivalry between Hemeti and Burhan remains in play, with Smith telling MEE that “if the civilians weren’t protesting against military rule, the army, RSF and GIS would probably be fighting among themselves for the spoils”.
Hudson, who previously worked for the CIA, believes Hemeti is now being represented by Russian communications experts, who have been offering interviews with the RSF commander to prominent western media outlets, as well as feeding him lines with which to blackmail the EU.
'If the civilians weren’t protesting against military rule, the army, RSF and GIS would probably be fighting among themselves for the spoils'
-Patrick Smith, Africa Confidential
In this analysis, Hemeti takes on the role played in Eastern Europe by Belarussian leader Alexander Lukashenko, who has been accused of letting migrants into the EU as a form of brinkmanship against Europe's sanctions regime toward his authoritarian rule.
Middle East Eye understands that the Politico interview was not arranged by Russian intermediaries. Hemeti has in the past employed Ari Ben-Menashe, a former Israeli intelligence officer now working as a Canadian lobbyist.
This doesn’t mean there aren’t ties between Hemeti and Russia. Russian Wagner Group mercenaries are thought to have operated alongside the RSF in Sudan, and in the summer of 2019 Hemeti visited Moscow on a“shopping trip for Russian weaponry”. Companies linked to the Wagner Group have also been granted valuable gold concessions in Sudan.
Moscow wants to build a naval base at Port Sudan in the east of the country, and is keen to maintain influence to that end. In the last few months, Facebook has shut down hundreds of fake accounts targeting Sudan and supporting its military, with some linked to “individuals in Russia”.
Hemeti would be perfectly capable of formulating this warning to European leaders on his own, though.
One Khartoum-based analyst, who preferred to remain anonymous for security reasons, told MEE that the militia leader was “recreating the Bashir-era practice of: ‘We will make ourselves indispensable and make it seem like the international community can’t do without us.’”
What this means is “picking the pressure points depending on who they are talking to - for the US it is terrorism, for the EU it’s migration. What Hemeti is saying now is: ‘I can open the floodgates’.”
The Sudanese analyst pointed out that it is precisely the presence of a military government in a country that drives its citizens away: “People can’t get jobs because the military controls 80 percent of the country. People want to leave because they fear the military is an authoritarian actor.”
In order for Hemeti’s threat not to be effective, EU officials will have to show they are more interested in helping create a situation in which civilians want to stay in countries like Sudan than they are in stopping people coming to Europe.
All of this comes ascivilian oppositionto recently restored prime minister Abdalla Hamdok grows. Hamdok’s deal with the military appears to be bad for democracy, and has certainly sidelined the opposition Forces for Freedom and Change (FFC) party.
“Hamdok sits at the right hand of Burhan. He’s a patsy,” said Hudson. “He doesn’t know he’s a patsy - and I have no doubt that he signed this deal as a way of avoiding bloodshed and sanctions - but it’s impaired his position."
“I don’t buy the idea that Hamdok is a sellout,” Smith said. “The really damaging rumour - probably put out by state intelligence - is that he was hooked up with the military before the coup even happened. If that is true, he would be finished with the people.”
Copyright © 2014 - 2023.Middle East Eye. All rights reserved.Only England and Wales jurisdiction apply in all legal matters.
Middle East Eye          ISSN 2634-2456

Title: Sudan: Nearly 50 dead in Darfur as inter-communal violence flares | Middle East Eye
Close to 50 people have been killed in the latest outbreak of inter-communal violence in Sudan's Darfur region, officials said on Monday.
"The violence began with an argument and it spiralled into killing six people on Saturday and then on Sunday more than 40 people were killed," West Darfur governor Khamis Abdallah told AFP.
The Doctors' Committee, an independent pro-democracy union, said that 48 people were killed in the Krink area of Darfur by live ammunition.
The fighting followed a financial dispute late on Saturday between two people in the Krinding camp for displaced persons in West Darfur province, said Adam Regal, spokesman for the General Coordination for Refugees and Displaced in Darfur.
Arab fighters known as Popular Defence Forces attacked the camp early on Sunday, torching and looting properties, Regal told reporters.
The intense clashes between Arab tribes and those from other African groups prompted the government to send troops into the area.
Over 6,000 people are thought to have been displaced by the fighting. A third of them have fled to neighbouring Chad.
Humanitarian aid workers find themselves "restricted" in West Darfur, said the United Nations, while the inhabitants need "food, shelter and access to water and health services".
Darfur, a vast region that has long been beset by fighting caused in part by territorial disputes, government repression and access to water sources, has experienced a long war that has left at least 300,000 people dead and 2.5 million displaced since 2003, according to the UN.
The Janjaweed militias used by the government of former autocrat Omar al-Bashir to quash dissent in Darfur morphed into one of the most powerful groups in Sudan today, the Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
The militia's commander, General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, widely known as Hemeti, is now deputy to de facto head of state General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan.
The violence in Darfur comes as pro-democracy protesters took to the streets of the capital Khartoum and several other cities across Sudan on Monday. They were met by the police and militia forces, who fired tear gas at them.
The demonstrators are protesting the 25 October military coup that displaced the civilian government of Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok, and the 21 November deal that reinstated Hamdok as part of an administration dominated by officials from the days of Bashir.
Sources in Khartoum told MEE that Hamdok was considering his position this week, with the 21 November deal heavily limiting the extent to which he can do the job he said he would do.
Seen as being on the side of the people following the 25 October coup, Hamdok's decision to rejoin the military-led administration has infuriated many of his former backers.
Copyright © 2014 - 2023.Middle East Eye. All rights reserved.Only England and Wales jurisdiction apply in all legal matters.
Middle East Eye          ISSN 2634-2456

Title: الشيخ والحواريون و"الثأرفوبيا"! - سودان تربيون
سودان تربيون
أخبار السودان وتقارير حصرية لحظة بلحظة
سودان تربيون
أخبار السودان وتقارير حصرية لحظة بلحظة
فتحي الضَّـو
28 نوفمبر 2010 — تختلف المسميات والأصل واحد. من منّا لم يتذكر ذاك اليوم الذي انقسم فيه الإسلامويون بين القصر والمنشية. القصر حيث استبقى المشير عمر حسن البشير نفسه حاكماً بعد أن ظلّ لنحو عقد من الزمن أسير الكواليس، أو بالأحرى وفق اعترافه في أول مؤتمر صحافي بعد الحدث، قال فيه: إن القرارات كانت تعبر عن يمينه وعن يساره وهو آخر من يعلم. أما المنشية فيوجد الدكتور حسن عبد الله الترابي أو الحاكم الفعلي من وراء حجاب في الفترة ذاتها. ولهذا تغلغل في العقل حتى وقر في ذهن الكثيرين أن المشكل هو صراع بين الترابي والبشير، ولم تكن مذكرة العشرة الكرام سوى رياح هبت، وكشفت ما اجتهد الطرفان في تغطيته بالأحابيل حيناً وبفقه الضرورة أحياناً أُخر. لكن هناك من لم يرق له حصر النزاع بين المذكورين، ولأسباب لا تخفى على أحد رأوا فيه تطفيفاً في الكيل، وتفاوتاً في القامات لايستقيم عوده، ولهذا وجهوا أنظارهم في معركة هابيل وقابيل إلى أبعد من ذلك لئلا يأثمون!
نعم وجهوا أنظارهم نحو السيد علي عثمان طه في محاولة لمعرفة موقعه في الخارطة الجديدة التي بدأت تتشكل، وبالرغم من أنه لم يجعلهم يجتهدون كثيراً أو ينتظرون طويلاً، لم يشغل كثيراً من المراقبين أنفسهم بهذا الأمر بدعوى أن كل شيء واضح كالشمس في رابعة النهار. لهذا قالوا بثقة من لا يأتيه الشك من بين يديه ولا من خلفه، إنه صراع بين الشيخ وتلميذه، أو بين الشيخ وحواره وفق مصطلحات صوفية أهل السودان. على أن ذلك لم يكن بذي بال، بنفس القدر الذي صوّب فيه البعض العيون نحو آخرين في حظيرة العصبة، وقفوا يومذاك كحمار الشيخ في العقبة – بحسب الوصف القرآني – ليس لأن مشاعرهم توزعت بين القصر والمنشية، ولكن لأنهم يودون أن يروا أين ستكون السلطة حتى يحطوا رِحالهم عندها. هؤلاء ظلوا لأيام معدودات يصلون خلف علي ويأكلون مع معاوية، ومن عجب أيضاً تحركت قنوات استشعارهم أضعاف ما كانت عليها طاقتها القصوى في الأيام العادية، وذلك في محاولة لمعرفة أين ستستقر البوصلة ليعلنوا لها ولاءهم المطلق!
كلنا يعلم أن للإسلامويين ولعٌ غير طبيعي بالسلطة وملذاتها. لهذا لم يكن الانقسام الذي حدث في العاشر من رمضان الموافق للعام الميلادي 1999 صراعاً فكرياً، وإنما كان صراعاً سياسياً حول السلطة، لم يكن صراعاً في الدين وإنما كان صراعاً على الدنيا. ونستدل على ذلك بما سبق وأشرنا له في مقال سابق نقلاً عن أحد كوادر العصبة، وهو عبد الرحيم عمر محي الدين، الذي اصدر كتاباً قبل سنوات قليلة وصدّره بعنوان (الترابي: صراع الهوى والهوية) قال فيه إنه سأل أحد الكوادر القيادية عن وجهته بين الفريقين، فقال المُسائل للسائل: إنه مع القصر حتى لو كان ساكنه غردون!
أثناء تمايز الصفوف وفي أعقاب الانقسام. كان الفريقان قد تحفزا لتجاوز الخطوط الحمراء، وبدأوا كالمسعورين ينهشون في لحوم بعضهم البعض، تراشقوا بالألقاب وتنابذوا بالاسم الفسوق. حينئذٍ تناثرت الفضائح السياسية والفكرية والأخلاقية حتى أصبح الدين الذي قالوا إنهم منه ينهلون، كمن يبحث عن مغيثٍ. ثمّ بدأ البعض متأهبين لإخراج سيوفهم من أغمادها، بل أكثر تأهباً لإعادة سيناريو الدماء التي أريقت في كربلاء ومعركة صفين وواقعة الجمل. ثم انبرى آخرون وأصدروا نشرة طفحت بالغث والمسموم، لدرجة زكمت رائحتها الأنوف، والمفارقة أنهم أطلقوا عليها اسم (الزيتونة) ودأبوا على تعليقها على حيطان مسجد جامعة الخرطوم مثلما كان يفعل بعض عرب الجاهلية الأولى حين يعلقون فضائحهم على أستار الكعبة. يومذاك تعرَّت الحركة الإسلاموية حتى لم يبق من دثارها ورقة توت تغطي عورة ناشطيها، يومذاك سقطت دعاوى هي لله، واتضح بما لا يدع مجالاً للشك هي للدنيا وللذات الجشعة، حتى ولو كان الشيطان حاميها!
مضى الشيخ يلملم جراحه. لكنهم كانوا يعلمون إنه رجل عنيد تمحورهم حوله أورثه ديكتاتورية مقيتة، كان يمارسها بهمة من يؤدي واجباً قومياً في رهط من قومه! ولهذا كان من الصعب عليه أن يستسلم وهو يرى المشروع الذي نذر له عمره – اتّفق الناس حوله أم اختلفوا – أصبح كسراب بقيعة يحسبه الظمآن ماء. وكما يفعل حواة السياسة بات يخرج بين الفينة والأخرى من جرابه شيئاً يجعل تلاميذته يتجادلون ويتناطحون ويتلاومون ولا ينتهي الأمر إلا بحبسه وراء جدران السجن، ثم يقبلوا على ما تبقى من أنصاره ترغيباً وترهيباً، فيستجيب البعض عندما تلوح أمام ناظريهم السلطة بصولجانها الذي يخلب الألباب، فيقبلون العروض بدعاوى أوهى من بيوت العنكبوت. هكذا زعم محمد الحسن الأمين، وهكذا أومأ بدر الدين طه، وهذا ما نطق به أخيراً الحاج آدم، بيد أن الأوسط انقلب على عقبيه حين لم يجد ما طمح له، فغادر وكر العصبة مرة أخرى، ولا يعلم أحد أيان وجهته بعدئذٍ. أما الشيخ الذي لا يغفر ولا ينسى، فعندما يعيل صبر سجانيه يقومون باطلاق سراحه، فيبدأ مرة أخرى في الشروع في جولة ثانية، إنها الثأرفوبيا لو تعلمون!
ولكن قل لي يا صاحٍ لماذا استنهاض هذا التاريخ الكالح السواد الآن. سأقول لك اختصاراً إنه الشيخ نفسه الذي دأب على زيارة باريس من حين لآخر، بدعوى  الاستشفاء أو إجراء فحوصات طبية، ولسبب لا ندري كنهه فهو يحلو له زيارة العاصمة القطرية الدوحة في الغدو والرواح. هذا الضبط ما حدث قبل نحو أسبوعين تقريباً. وأثناء إقامته قام بتسجيل عشر حلقات لبرنامج (شاهد على العصر) لمقدمه أحمد منصور. وتردد أن الترابي أفشى فيها أسراراً تهتز لها أفئدة الثقلان، مما اضطر مدير قناة الجزيرة وضّاح خنفر (وهو بالمناسبة ابن سرحتهم، أي الحركة الإسلاموية السودانية) أن يطير للخرطوم في زيارة خاطفة لمدة يوم واحد أثناء وجود الترابي في الدوحة، وقابل مسؤولاً كبيراً في القصر الجمهوري، وذلك بحسب رئيس تحرير هذه الصحيفة (الأحداث 11/11/2010) الذي كتب مقالاً بعنوان (البشير في الدوحة ووضاح خنفر في القصر الجمهوري) وحاول استنكاه ما وراء الخبر بثلاثة احتمالات شاركناه واحدة منها، وهي القائلة إن الترابي أفرج عن أسرار يشيب لها الوالدان!
ذلك ما فتح شهية من ألقى السمع وهو شهيد في المدينة التي لا تعرف الأسرار مطلقاً. ثم حاول الكثيرون ونحن منهم سبر غور الحدث لعله يكشف ما يطفيء الظمأ ويروي حب الاستطلاع. بيد أنني سألت نفسي سؤالاً مشروعاً واحسب أن الكثيرين سألوه لأنفسهم بقدر سواء. هل ما يزال في الكأس باقٍ؟ بمعنى أن الكثيرين يعتقدون أن الطرفين أفرغا كل الهواء الساخن من صدورهم، وذلك على مدى عقد كامل من الزمن، وبالتالي لم يبق شيئاً يستحق الذكر أو الاهتمام. لكني وجدت نفسي على خلاف ما زعموا، وهو أنه ما زال ثمة شيء في جعبة الترابي يبدو أنه ادّخره لليوم الأسود! ليس من المنطق في شيء ابتسار الأشياء والتسليم بالقليل الذي نضح عنه، وهو من وقف على رأس تنظيم ما يناهز نصف قرن، وحكم الدولة كلها لنحو عشر سنوات بالتمام والكمال. وطالما هو يظن أنه يملك ما يمكن أن يخلخل به الأرضية التي تقف عليها عصبته القديمة، فلنحاول إذن استشفاف ماهية السر المكنون الذي رمى به في حلبة قناة الجزيرة. وهي بحسب ظننا تكمن فيما أسميناه بالعشر الموبقات:
أولاً: كلنا يعلم أن ثمة رؤوس تطايرت في بواكير عهد العصبة الحاكمة في العام 1990. ومنذاك الوقت أريق حبر كثير بمثلما أريق دم الضباط الثمانية وعشرين، واضعافهم من ضباط الصف والجنود. والذين حوكموا صورياً بما يشبه محاكمات عصر التفتيش، وذلك بدعوى الشروع في عمل انقلابي من جنس ما فعلته العصبة نفسها. ولم يستغرق الحدث سوى ساعتين شاملة وقائع التنفيذ الدراماتيكية والتي يقشعر منها البدن، ثمّ دفنوا في مقبرة جماعية بمكان غفر لم يستدل أحد حتى الآن عليها. ولأن تلك من الجرائم التي تظل شاخصة أبصارها مدى الدهر، فهل يا ترى كشف الترابي عن ملابسات ما حدث، بمعنى من الذي أصدر القرار؟ ومن شارك في تنفيذه؟ ومن دعمه؟ ومن صمت ولو من باب أضعف الايمان؟
ثانياً: من الجرائم التي ما زالت تلقي بظلالها الكئيبة على الواقع السوداني، هي جريمة قطع الأرزاق أو ما سُمي بالفصل للصالح العام. إذ يعتقد البعض مخطئين أنه مجرد قرار قذف بأكثر من مائة ألف عامل من جهاز الدولة إلى الشارع. ولكن الحقيقة إنه القرار الذي يتجرع الناس كؤوسه المُرة حتى اليوم. فهو القرار الذي أورث السواد الأعظم من أهل السودان الفقر المقيم، لا سيّما، وأن الترابي نفسه هو القائل إن نسبة الفقر أكثر من 90% وهو القرار الذي أنتج فيما بعد ظاهرة أطفال المايقوما وأكثر من 800 طفل باتوا يدخلونها كل عام، وهو القرار الذي جعل الناس يطالعون يومياً في الصحف إعلانات الخزي والعار التي تصدر من المحاكم ضد أناس هجروا عائلاتهم إما بسبب الإعسار أو بسبب الغيبة أو خوف الفتنة. وهو القرار الذي جعل البعض يقطع بحوراً ومحيطات طلباً للعيش الكريم والذي عزّ عليهم في بلادهم. فهل يا ترى أفصح الترابي في اللقاء المذكور عن الذين ارتكبوا هذه المجزرة البشعة، واستنوا سنة الإبادة الجماعية من قبل أن يُعرِّفها موريس أوكامبو؟
ثالثاً: من الإنجازات الشامخات في سجل العصبة المخزي، تلك البيوت سيئة السمعة، والتي أطلق عليها اسماً مرعباً (بيوت الأشباح) نسبة لما كان يجري بداخلها من ممارسات أرسلت الكثيرين للعالم الآخر، ومن كان محظوظاً خرج بعاهة مستديمة ستلازمه ما بقي حياً. على سبيل المثال ما ورد في المذكرة التي رفعها دكتور فاروق محمد إبراهيم لرأس الدولة واتّهم فيها مسؤولان يقفان الآن على قمة جهاز الدولة بالاشراف على تعذيبه، وهما دكتور نافع علي نافع واللواء بكري حسن صالح، وذكر فيها حالة مأساوية تخص أحد المواطنين (الواجب يقتضي أن أدرج حالة موظف وزارة الإسكان السابق المهندس بدر الدين إدريس التي كنت شاهداً عليها، فقد تعرض لتعذيب لا أخلاقي شديد البشاعة، ولم يطلق سراحه إلا بعد أن فقد عقله وقام بذبح زوجته ووالدها وآخرين من أسرته. كان في ثبات وصمود ذلك الشاب الهاش الباش الوسيم الأسمر الفارع الطول تجسيداً لكرامة وفحولة وعزة أهل السودان. وكان أحد الجنود الأشد قسوة – لا أدري إن كان اسم حماد الذي أطلق عليه حقيقياً – يدير كرباجه على رقبتينا وجسدينا نحن الاثنين في شبق. وفي إحدى المرات أُخرج بدر الدين من بيننا ثمّ أعيد لنا بعد ساعات مذهولاً أبكم مكتئباً محطماً كسير القلب. ولم تتأكد لي المأساة التي حلت ببدر الدين منذ أن رأيته ليلة مغادرتنا لبيت الأشباح منتصف ليلة 12 ديسمبر 1989 إلا عند اطّلاعي على إحدى نشرات المجموعة السودانية لضحايا التعذيب هذا الأسبوع) فهل يا ترى كشف الترابي اسماء من وقفوا وراء تلك الفكرة الجهنمية، وأشرفوا بشخوصهم على المعتقلين تعذيباً وقتلاً وتنكيلاً؟
رابعاً: ما دام دكتور الترابي نطق بكل شيء، فلابد أنه كشف اللغز حول أرواح أزهقت بذنوب نهت عنها العصبة وجاءت بمثلها. فهل يا ترى أفصح الترابي عن ملابسات قتل شاب برئ اسمه مجدي محجوب محمد أحمد وآخرين بنفس تهمته، هما جرجس القس يسطس وابن الجنوب أركنجلو. وبالقدر نفسه هل يا ترى كشف الترابي عن الذين أُعدموا غدراً وغيلة دون أن يعرفوا هم أو من يحبونهم أي ذنب ارتكبوه، مثل الطبيب علي فضل الذي خرج من أسرة كادحة كانت تنتظر تخرجه حتى يرتقي بحالها. وفيهم المعلم عبد المنعم سليمان، وفيهم المهندس أبوبكر راسخ. ليس هذا فحسب ففي قطاع الطلاب ثمة عشرات راحوا في رحلة اللاعودة، بدءً بالطالبة التاية أبو عاقلة ومروراً بالطالب محمد عبد السلام، وانتهاءً بسبحة كرت حباتها ولم تتوقف. أولئك ضحايا لهم بواكٍ وثواكل فهل يا ترى برّد الترابي حشا أمهاتهم بما انتظروه زمناً!
خامساً: كلنا يعلم أن الترابي كثيراً ما لوّح ببطاقة يعتبرها من أثمن ما يملك ضد عصبته القديمة. فقد سبق وان قال لقناة العربية (أبريل 2006) إنه على استعداد للشهادة أمام أي محكمة دولية إذا ما طلبت منه الإدلاء بشهادته في قضية محاولة اغتيال الرئيس المصري حسني مبارك في أديس أبابا في يونيو 1995 ويقول الترابي دائماً إنه كرجل قانون يعلم أن مثل هذه الجرائم لا تسقط بالتقادم. وقد حاول مراراً الإيحاء بين وقائع ذلك الحدث وبين ما استجد فيما يعرف بقضية المحكمة الجنائية، والتي وجهت اتّهامها إلى ثلاثة مسؤولين على رأسهم رأس الدولة المشير عمر البشير. فهل يا ترى ذهب الترابي إلى أبعد مما قال من قبل وأورد تفصيلات أذهلت كل مرضعة عما أرضعت!
سادساً: ما لله لله وما لقيصر لقيصر، واقعة أديس أبابا – بتعبيرات من قسّم العالم إلى فسطاطين – تبعتها أحداث درامية، أودت بحياة ثُلة ممن يُظن أنهم يعرفون أكثر مما ينبغي من أهل العصبة نفسها، فقد ذكر دكتور منصور خالد في كتابه الموسوم بـ (أهوال الحرب وطموحات السلام) بعض تفاصيل الحادث وأشار تحديداً في قوله (التصفية فيما يتجلى، أصبحت منهجاً يستسهله نائب الرئيس وثمانية رهط في المدينة. فعقب فشل المحاولة، تمت تصفية أحد موظفي الإغاثة ويدعى محمد الفاتح أمام زوجته في أديس أبابا حتى يزال أي أثر للجريمة، وكان الفاتح واحداً من العناصر التي كانت على علم بتدبير الجريمة، وما زال قاتله يعمل في ديوان الزكاة) تلك صحيفة اتّهام واضحة وضوحا لا لبث فيه ولا غموض، والمنصور نفسه يجلس إلى جوارهم الآن. وكنا نحن أيضاً قد أوردنا بعض تفاصيل عن هذه العملية بذات المستوى نسبة لذياع صيتها، وذلك في كتابنا المسمى (سقوط الأقنعة) بأريحية في الأسماء المتورطة، مع اختلاف في التفاصيل،. فهل يا تُرى كشف الترابي طلاسمها؟
سابعاً: بصورة أخرى، هل قال الترابي شيئاً جديداً حول الفترة التي قضاها ساكن تورا بورا أثناء وجوده في السودان ضيفاً عزيزاً على عصبته، وهو الإجراء الذي دفع السودانيون ضريبته، وقوفاً وصلباً على بوابات مطارات العالم وموانئه بتهمة الإرهاب، وهم الذين عرفوا من قبل بأنهم قوم وديعون. وإن كان لا يُعتقد أن الترابي سيكون عنده في هذه المسألة أقيم وأثمن مما حمله أحد أفراد العصبة الذين وصفتهم السيدة جنيداي فريرز بأنه (رجل أمريكا في السودان) وقطع المحيط مرتين متوجهاً نحو منطقة لانغلي بولاية فرجينيا حيث يقبع مبنى الوكالة التي دوخت العالم بعملياتها السرية والعلنية، ومتأبطاً ملفات جعلت العيون تخرج من محاجرها، فقد كان الرجل سخياً كريماً معطاءً، حتى قال الممنوح للمانح (يا للعنة لقد أعطونا أكثر مما كنا نتوقع) ومع ذلك هل لدى الترابي أكثر مما همى به غيث حِواره السابق في دهاليز الوكالة المشار إليها؟
ثامناً: تلك الفترة مهما قيل فيها فإنها تعتبر من أكثر الفترات ثراءً في الموبقات. فعلى هامش وجود من أصبح يحمل المتهم رقم واحد في العالم ضيفاً عزيزاً على العصبة آنذاك، ثمة ملحقات حدثت ولا يعرف السودانيون لها مستقراً أكثر مما جادت به قريحة الإعلام الكذوب. على سبيل المثال، يذكر الناس يومذاك شخصاً يحمل الجنسية الليبية اسمه الخليفي، وهو الرأس المدبر لحادث مسجد أنصار السنة الكائن في الحارة الأولى، والذي فتح رشاشه على مصلين خاشعين ساجدين، فأودى بحياة أكثر من عشرين، ومثلما يحدث في أفلام رعاة البقر حدثت مطاردات بينه وبين آخرين في شوارع البلد الذي كان دار سلام وأمن واستقرار، إلى أن انتهى به التطواف في منزل حامل لواء التطرف العالمي، ودارت معركة بينه وبين حراسه، المهم تلك من القضايا التي لا يعرف الناس عنها شيئاً وتكررت بذات السيناريو في مسجد الجرافة، وأحد (الكنابي) بمدينة ود مدني. فهل يمكن أن نتوقع الترابي وقد روى ظمأ المتعطشين لمعرفة ما وراء الأكمة؟
تاسعاً: للأعياد في السودان دائما طعم الحنظل ذلك لأن عشية عيد فطر نُحر أولئك الضابط المذكورين أعلاه، وفي عيد أضحية جاءت العصبة بما هو أشر وأضل، ففي يوم الجمعة 2/4/1998 فتح جلاوزة الدفاع الشعبي النيران على ظهور أكثر من مائة شاب يافع في معسكر السليت بمدينة العليفون. كانت تلك جريمة نكراء أكدت في النهاية أن أُولئك الطلاب ماتوا سمبلة (أي دون أن يحقق في موتهم أحد) فهل يا ترى نطق الترابي بالذي ازاح الغموض عن تلك القضية حتى يزيح أهلهم ثوب الحداد الذي تدثروا به لأكثر من عقد من الزمن؟
عاشراً: ثمة موبقات حدثت في العشرية الثانية، وهي العشرية التي لم يكن الترابي فيها حاكماً، ولكن بحكم أنه ناشط سياسي ما تزال بينه وبين بعض كوادر العصبة وشائج وعلاقات عامرة، فلابد إنه تناهى إلى سمعه شيئاً من أسرار هذه الموبقات الجدد. فهل يا ترى ذروا على سمعه بعضاً من أسرار (موقعة) كجبار التي أودت بحياة شباب من أهل المنطقة بلا ذنب جنوه أو جريرة اقترفوها؟ هل يا ترى ملّكوا الترابي بعض ألغاز (معركة) مدينة بورتسودان التي تطايرت فيها جثث أبرياء في الهواء، بسبب ما ظنوه ممارسة مشروعة لحق إنساني من حقوقهم؟ وبالمثل أيضاً هل قالوا له ما حدث في جبال النوبة أو في مدينة كسلا بعد هجوم قوات التجمع الوطني؟ هل يا ترى علم الترابي بما حدث في دارفور وأسموه بجرائم حرب وإبادة جماعية وجرائم ضد الإنسانية؟ وبما أن الشيء بالشيء يذكر، كان الترابي قد أذاع قبل فترة زمنية قصيرة على الهواء الطلق رواية قيلت له ونالت من كرامة حرائر الإقليم المنكوب أصلاً بمحنته، ونسب الترابي الرواية لمصدر خاص وإن أومأ بصفة القائل في تأكيده (إنه ممن يُؤدى القسم أمامه وتعلمون من يُؤدى القسم أمامه) ثم أفصح عنها، فكانت قولاً ثقيلاً على القلب واللسان، بل كان يمكن أن تشعل فتنة لا تبقي ولا تذر، لكنها مضت كما تمضي السابلة في الطرقات المظلمة، فحمدنا الله الذي حبانا يومئذٍ بقلوب أصابها الملال والكلال والموات!صفوة القول، تلك هي الموبقات العشر، فلو أن الشيخ قال لقناة الجزيرة شيئاً إدّاً، فلن يكون سوى فضه عذرية هذه الأحداث التي قلنا وقال هو نفسه عنها إنها ستظل تذكر القوم بشرورهم المستدامة. وبالطبع ثمة قضايا سياسية لا يعتقد بأنها دخلت ضمن كرم وأريحية الترابي لأنه يشارك العصبة ذنوبها، وتلك من شاكلة من ذا الذي قوّض الدستور ونفّذ الانقلاب الكارثة؟ من هم الذين عاثوا في ثروات السودان فساداً وحولوا بيوتهم الآن لبنوك صغيرة وأودعوها مال مختلف عملاته؟ ومن الذي حوّل الحرب في الجنوب لحرب جهادية أودت بحياة أكثر من عشرين ألف طالب ماتوا (فطيس) كما قال هو. ومن هم الذين تستروا على الظلم وكتموا شهادة الحق؟ وبالرغم من مسؤوليته الضمنية أو الظاهرية في كثير من القضايا، إلا أن الترابي يبدو في كثير من الأحيان غير مكترث للعاقبة التي يمكن أن تلحق به، بقدر ما هو متلهف للمآل الذي ينتظر غيره. وتلك ما جسده حديث قاله لي صديق تربطه به علاقة خاصة، وذلك في معرض قوله له: لكن يا دكتور المسؤولية ستطالك أيضاً. فقال له الترابي: نعم أعلم ذلك، وكرجل قانون ربما أنال سنة أو سنتين ولكن ثق وقتها لن تستطيع المشانق أن تسع ضيوفها!
آخر الكلام:لابد من الديمقراطية وإن طال السفر!
يمكن الاتصال بكاتب هذ المقال عن طريق الايميل على[email protected]
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

جميع الحقوق محفوظة @ 2024  | سودان تريبيون

Title: Recent decisions in Sudan were coordinated with Hamdok, says al-Burhan - Sudan Tribune
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
Abdel Fattah al-Burhan
December 20, 2021 (KHARTOUM) – Abdel Fattah al-Burhan Head of the Sovereign Council on Monday said that all the recent decisions taken after the 21st November were in coordination with the Prime Minister.
On November 21, al-Burhan signed a framework agreement with Abdallah Hamdok who has been reinstated in his position as Prime Minister tasked with the formation of a government of technocrats after the adoption of a political declaration.
The Commander-In-Chief of the Sudan Armed Forces (SAF) made his remarks in a meeting with the senior ranking officers of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) from brigadier and above to brief them about the political situation in the country.
He “confirmed that the measures and appointments taken after November 21 were coordinated between him and the Prime Minister,” reads a statement issued by the SAF Official Spokesperson.
Al-Burhan further affirmed his full support for Abdallah Hamdok to carry out his duties. Furthermore, he reiterated his commitment that the third transitional government be formed of independent technocrats.
After his appointment, Hamdok relieved the police director-general and his deputy after the use of excessive force against protesters that led to the death of 45 people.
He appointed undersecretaries to replace the ministers that al-Burhan relieved after the 25th October coup. Also, he appointed state secretaries-general.
The rare meeting with the RSF officers was attended by Lt Gen Ibrahim Jaber, Member of the Sovereign Council, SAF Chief of Staff, his deputies, SAF Inspector General, senior commanders of the main armies and unit commanders.
The statement did not mention who was present at the meeting from the RSF commanders.
According to the SAF spokesperson al-Burhan told the RSF “not to pay attention to rumours targeting the unity of the security system”.
The RSF militia is perceived as an alien body by the members of the professional army.
Several incidents occurred between the members of the two armed forces and some cases were brought to military courts.
In May 2021, the RSF General Commander Mohamed Hamdan Daglo “Hemetti” for the first time voiced publically his rejection to integrate his forces in the national army.
In June, the leaders of the Forces for Freedom and Changes (FFC) held a series of meeting with the SAF and RSF leaders to cool tensions between the two armies in Khartoum.
But al-Burhan repeated several times after their commitment to reunite the armed forces in one army as provided in the constitutional declaration governing the transitional period.
(ST)
Copyright @ 2024 | Sudan Tribune. All rights reserved.

Title: IDP accuse RSF fighters of participating in West Darfur attacks - Sudan Tribune
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
A survivor of November's attacks on Jebel Moon, in front of his former home. The village is now deserted, as people fled to the surrounding mountains (NRC photo)
December 8, 2021 (KHARTOUM) – Darfur displaced people (IDP) have accused the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) of being involved in the recent bloody violence that surged in South and West Darfur.
Since last week, the Jebel Moon, Kerenik and Donki Shata areas in West Darfur, in addition to Manwashi of South Darfur have witnessed intercommunal violence that claimed the lives of more than 100 people.
“The RSF are an integral part of the recent conflicts, they ride in cars and motorcycles that are prohibited in the region to attack villages, camps and areas to kill and rape without restriction, and the state is completely absent,” Adam Rahal Spokesperson for the IDPs and Refugees Coordination told the Sudan Tribune on Wednesday.
Rahal pointed out that the RSF was involved in the violence of Jebel Moon, Kerenik and Manwashi, stressing that these conflicts are over natural resources.
Rahal added that 15 civilians were killed and five villages burned, on Wednesday morning in Jebel Moon.
The death toll in Jebel Moon has risen to 33 since the beginning of the current conflict, according to the IDP official.
He went further to claim that the RSF militia, which is commanded by the Deputy Chairman of the Sovereign Council, actually seek to expel the Jebel Moon residents from the mountainous area before bringing companies that explore the mineral resources.
Rahal said that the militiamen attacked the Donki Shata area on Wednesday, wounding 4 people, who were taken to El Fasher Hospital for treatment.
For its part, the Central Committee of Sudanese Doctors stated that the victims of the Kerenik clashes had risen to 88 dead and 84 wounded.
Press reports in Khartoum speak about the involvement of a peace signatory group in the Kerenik events.
Rahal admitted the involvement of the peace groups in the tribal clashes but dismissed their participation in the Kerenik clashes.
“The movements are part of the conflict in West Darfur, but they did not reach Kerenik, and some of their fighters were killed in the area between El-Geneina and Kerenik.”
The signatory groups fighters are gathered in some cantonment sites but they are not disarmed as the enforcement of the security arrangements does not start.
The IDP spokesperson pointed to the non-intervention of the Sudanese army troops to stop attacks saying they were accomplices in the committed atrocities.
“The army did not intervene in the conflict but rather watched the death. I don’t know if they had the authority to act or not, but the State is complicit as it does not fulfil its responsibility to civilians in Darfur.”
Commenting on the recent decision of the Sovereign Council to deploy a task force in the region Rahal said there are already a sufficient number of troops to protect civilians and maintain security in the region.
“There is no real will,” he stressed.
On Tuesday, the Sovereign Council decided to form a joint force of the army, RSF, General Intelligence Service, the police, and fighters of the signatory groups to maintain security in the troubled region.
The Sudan Tribune was not able to obtain a comment from an RSF spokesperson, but a press statement issued on Wednesday confirmed the dispatch of a force from the Peace Shield units to Kulbus locality in West Darfur state.
The statement stated that the force, led by Major General al-Nur Ahmed aims to monitor the overall security situation in several localities.
The Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC) on Wednesday expressed deep concern about the security situation in West Darfur and the violence that has begun three weeks ago.
“Atrocious levels of armed conflict in Darfur have levelled settlements and displaced hundreds of thousands of people this year alone,” said Will Carter, Country Director for the Norwegian Refugee Council in Sudan.
“National authorities and the international community must urgently deal with the bloody reality of this spiralling violence.”
Over 100 people were killed and around 15 villages or displacement sites were burned to the ground in the Kerenik and Jebel Moon areas of West Darfur, according to the humanitarian group.
(ST)
Copyright @ 2024 | Sudan Tribune. All rights reserved.

Title: Armed men loot UN food aid warehouse in Darfur - Taipei Times
Sudanese gunmen have looted a UN World Food Programme (WFP) warehouse containing about 1,900 tonnes of food aid in Darfur amid a surge of violence in the western region, officials said on Wednesday.
Residents of El Fasher, the capital of North Darfur state, reported heavy shooting near the warehouse late on Tuesday, and the local authorities have imposed a nighttime curfew on the town after the attack, the Sudan News Agency reported.
“We heard intense gunfire,” local resident Mohamed Salem said.
Photo: Reuters
A WFP official said the organization “is conducting an audit into what was stolen from the warehouse, which contained about 1,900 tonnes of food products,” intended to be lifesaving supplies for some of the most vulnerable people.
“One in three people in Sudan needs humanitarian assistance,” UN Humanitarian Coordinator in Sudan Khardiata Lo N’Diaye said. “Humanitarian assistance should never be a target.”
On Twitter, Darfur Governor Mini Minawi denounced a “barbaric act,” saying that those responsible would “face justice.”
The vast, arid and impoverished region awash with guns is still reeling from a conflict that broke out under former Sudanese president Omar al-Bashir in 2003, leaving hundreds of thousands dead.
The unrest pitted ethnic minority rebels, who complained of discrimination, against the Arab-dominated al-Bashir government. Khartoum responded by unleashing the Janjaweed militia, blamed for atrocities, including murder, rape, looting and burning villages.
Thousands of Janjaweed were later integrated into the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces led by Mohamed Hamdan Daglo, the No. 2 in Sudan’s ruling council.
Al-Bashir is wanted by the International Criminal Court on charges of genocide in Darfur. He was ousted and jailed in April 2019 after mass protests against his three-decade rule.
While the main conflict in Darfur has subsided under a peace deal struck with key rebel groups last year, violence continues to erupt.
The region has seen a spike in conflict since October, triggered by disputes over land, livestock, and access to water and grazing, with about 250 people killed in fighting between herders and farmers.
The violence has occurred while Sudan reels from political turbulence in the wake of a coup led by military chief General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan on Oct. 25.
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres last week condemned looting and reported violence near a former UN logistics base in El Fasher that had been handed over to the local authorities days earlier.
‘INTRUSIONS’:The ‘Global Times’ reported that Thitu Island in the Spratlys group is ‘illegally occupied’ by the Philippines, which is expanding military infrastructure on it                                        The Philippines could “stir up trouble” at yet another “Chinese” island in the South China Sea, China’s state-backed Global Times reported late on Thursday, after what it said were Manila’s “provocative intrusions” into waters at two other reefs in the region.
The Philippines is expanding military infrastructure on Thitu Island (Jhongye Island, 中業島) in the Spratly Islands (Nansha Islands, 南沙群島), which Taiwan also claims, to potentially invite warships and warplanes from countries outside of the region such as the US and Japan, sabotaging peace and stability in the South China Sea, the newspaper reported, citing Chinese experts.
Thitu Island is “illegally occupied”
‘SON OF GOD’:Quiboloy was in 2021 indicted by US prosecutors for allegedly having sex with women and underage girls who faced threats of abuse and ‘damnation’                                        Hundreds of police officers backed by riot squads yesterday raided a vast religious compound in a southern Philippine city in search of a local preacher accused of sexual abuse and human trafficking, police officials said.
A supporter of the group, called Kingdom of Jesus Christ, reportedly died due to a heart attack during the massive police raid that started at dawn in the group’s compound in Davao City, livestreamed online by a local TV network owned by the group, police said, adding that the death was not related to the police operations.
Officers brought equipment that could detect people behind cement walls,
A museum in southern French city Marseille is inviting visitors to discover Europe’s relationship to the naturist lifestyle by wandering its halls in the nude. 
“It’s not every day you get to walk around a museum naked,” said Julie Guegnolle, 38, who was celebrating her birthday at the “Naturist Paradises” exhibition in the Museum of Civilizations of Europe and the Mediterranean (Mucem).
Once a month, visitors to Mucem can explore the history of naturism in Europe in only their shoes — a precaution not for modesty’s sake but simply to “avoid getting splinters,” said Eric Stefanut, head of French naturist organization
They are the most fervent musicians no one has ever heard.
Performers at this year’s Air Guitar World Championships in Finland on Friday tuned up at the Olympics of air guitar for the 27th time, featuring dedicated competitors like “Shred Lasso” and “Guitarantula.”
This year’s challenge began on Wednesday with Airientation in Oulu, nearly 540km north of Helsinki, and was headlined by a class open to veterans and new guitarists alike. The Dark Horses Qualifications followed on Thursday, culminating with the World Championships Final on Friday night with the crowning of Canada’s Zachary “Ichabod Fame” Knowles as the 2024 Air Guitar World

Title: MSN


Title: Sudanese coup leaders’ riches feed military power - Final Call News
General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo (also known as Hemedti), head of Sudan’s feared Rapid Support Force, pledged over $1 billon to help stabilize the Sudanese Central Bank after an economic crisis and overwhelming protests which led to the military ouster of President Omar el-Bashir in 2019.
His promise two years ago is a sign of how Sudan’s military coup leaders have used their positions to enrich and empower themselves—and explains why they seek to stay in power. They exert tremendous control and enjoy wealth as a result of their positions and ability to rule.
“We put $1.027 billion in the Bank of Sudan … the funds are there, available now,” said the general, who is part of the ruling regime, in 2019. And, he added, the RSF “supported the state at the beginning of the crisis by buying the essential resources: petrol, wheat, medication.”
“People ask where do we (the RSF) bring this money from? We have the salaries of our troops fighting outside (abroad) and our gold investments, money from gold, and other investments,” he said in widely distributed media reports.
According to an article last year by financial news outlet Bloomberg, the general has been accused of stealing. “A company linked to Sudan’s most powerful militia leader (Dagalo) is surrendering a network of mines that at one stage produced a third of the nation’s gold, as his group battles accusations of corruption and brutality.”
Global Witness, a non-profit that investigates environmental and human rights abuses and tracks “ill-gotten money and influence through the global financial and political system,” has commented on Dagalo’s rise. Part of his power stems from control of the “Jebel Amer gold mines in Darfur, and a gold trading company frequently referred to as Al Junaid. (Letters from the organization indicate that the company group refers to itself as Al Gunade—the same pronunciation but different spelling.),” said Global Witness.
His partial hold on Sudan’s vital gold industry illustrates the scale of the challenge to rescue an economy broken by decades of mismanagement, corruption and war. Included in that challenge is the 2011 loss of much needed oil revenue with succession and independence for Southern Sudan, the world’s newest nation state.
“His career began as a militia man in western Darfur, where rebels took up arms against Khartoum in 2003. Bashir mobilized several militia to quell the revolt and, in the conflict that followed, some 300,000 people were killed and two million more driven from their homes. The government disowned ‘outlaw’ fighters who murdered civilians, but the International Criminal Court issued an arrest warrant for Bashir for war crimes and the U.S. imposed further economic sanctions against his government,” observed Reuters news service.
According to the European Council On Foreign Relations, “The civilian wing of the Sudanese state is bankrupt but unwilling to confront powerful generals, (including Dagalo and General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, head of the governing Sovereign Council) that control a sprawling network of companies and keep the central bank and the Ministry of Finance on life support to gain political power.”
“The military and security apparatus has shares in, or owns companies involved in the production and export of gold, oil, gum arabic, sesame, and weapons; the import of fuel, wheat, and cars; telecommunications; banking; water distribution; contracting; construction; real estate development; aviation; trucking; limousine services; and the management of tourist parks and events venues.
“Defence companies manufacture air conditioners, water pipes, pharmaceuticals, cleaning products, and textiles. They operate marble quarries, leather tanneries, and slaughterhouses. Even the firm that produces Sudan’s banknotes is under the control of the security sector.”
Dagalo’s influence increased when his RSF joined the Saudi Arabian and United Arab Emirate-led 2015 military intervention in Yemen.
“Members of the RSF were deployed in Yemen and received support from Saudi and UAE including money and weapons,” reported Al Jazeera.
A 2019 British Independent headline read: “ ‘It’s our biggest employer: How a lucrative war in Yemen fuels conflict in Darfur,’” Members of Dagalo’s militia, in a six-month deployment, earned roughly $20,000—more money than they could ever hope to earn in a lifetime, according to the Independent.
The Independent reported Darfur residents say years of wealthy, armed and trained fighters returning from Yemen has ratcheted up tensions in a region torn by continuous years of civil unrest.
Many fear it has unnaturally swelled the ranks of the RSF, which is accused by rights groups and in press reports of committing genocidal violence in Darfur and being responsible for brutal repression carried out recently against pro-democracy protesters in Khartoum and Omdurman. Critics say the generals’ money keeps the civilian government dependent on coup leaders for funding.
“Following decades of consolidated authoritarianism, Sudan has entered a rare period of instability in its balance of power. Neither Burhan, Hemedti, Hamdok, nor the FFC can currently hope to rule without the support of some of the others,” wrote Dr. Jean-Baptiste Gallopin, a visiting fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations.
“They all perform a kind of high-wire act as they contend with the influence of multiple regional powers and domestic groups within a highly fragmented political environment. This period is fraught with risks, but its volatility creates opportunities for radical change,” he said.
Follow @jehronmuhammad on Twitter.
Contact Us

Title: Almost 50 killed in Sudan Darfur tribal clashes: officials - Japan Today
JapanTodaySotokanda S Bldg. 4F5-2-1 SotokandaChiyoda-kuTokyo 101-0021JapanTel: +81 3 5829 5900Fax: +81 3 5829 5919Email:editor@japantoday.com©2024GPlusMedia Inc.
The requested article has expired, and is no longer available. Any related articles, and user comments are shown below.
Take pleasure in the heart of Niseko's green season. Presented by Hilton Niseko Village.
Watch the video special here!
Maybe the Darfur needs a UN peacekeeping mission again. Especially since that recent coup things have gone crazy again.
Use your Facebook account to login or register with JapanToday. By doing so, you will also receive an email inviting you to receive our news alerts.
Enter to win a 2-night VIP stay for two at the Hilton Niseko Village. Enjoy an unforgettable getaway with stunning views of Mt. Yotei, delicious cuisine and fun outdoor activities.
Learn More
Join the leaders of English Education for Children in Japan!
A mix of what's trending on our other sites
GaijinPot Blog
GaijinPot Travel
GaijinPot Travel
GaijinPot Travel
Savvy Tokyo
Savvy Tokyo
GaijinPot Blog
Savvy Tokyo
Savvy Tokyo
GaijinPot Blog
GaijinPot Blog
GaijinPot Travel

Title: 
	Sudan military used heavy weapons against protesters: NGOs - Frontline

Published :
Dec 15, 2021 16:50
IST
COMMents
SHARE
READ LATERSEE ALLRemove
The Rapid Support Forces in Sudan used anti-aircraft weapons to confront the demonstrators who rejected the military coup.
The deaths of at least 41 unarmed protesters in Sudan have caught the attention and condemnation of international observers. Despite the internet outage ordered by General Abdel-Fattah Burhan following the military coup on October 25, activists were able to document the use of anti-aircraft weapons and armor-piercing bullets. The footage shows clearly that the Sudanese Security Forces and militias such as the Rapid Support Forces confronted the demonstrators with weapons that are prohibited from being used against civilians and in cities.
Campaign to 'intimidate and suppress street protests'
Non-government organizations and rights groups have condemned the use of heavy arms against civilians as being in breach of humanitarian agreements that call for protecting civilians. Amnesty International has referred to the extremely violent military reaction in Sudan as "lethal force." "The deadly attack by Sudan's security authorities in the past two weeks was calculated to intimidate and suppress street protests against the military's takeover of power last month," Deprose Muchena, regional director for east and southern Africa at Amnesty International, commented in late November.
Meanwhile, the Sudan Doctors' Committee also has confirmed that Sudanese security forces used live ammunition to confront the demonstrators in Khartoum. Autopsy reports of at least 10 deaths received byDW Arabiafrom sources in Sudan show that gunshots caused the deaths. Sudanese security authorities — led by General Abdel-Fattah Burhan and the vice president of the Sudanese Sovereignty Council and commander of the RSF militia, General Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo — have denied any involvement in the demonstrators' deaths, saying they used "minimum force" to disperse anti-coup protesters.
What kind of weapons?
The Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), explained toDWwhat types of weapons mounted on four-wheel-drive vehicles can be seen in the videos.
1) ZPU-4 a towed anti-aircraft gun
This Russian anti-aircraft weapon is also produced and licensed in China as "56" and in Romania as MR-4. The first version of this weapon was the Soviet KPV 14.5 x 114 mm cannon, with a range of 8 km horizontally and about 5 km vertically.
2) ZU-23-2 anti-aircraft twin-barrelled autocannon
The Russian double-barrelled anti-aircraft weapon with a diameter of 23 mm has a range of about 2.5 km.
3) ZPU-2 14.5 mm anti-aircraft twin guns
The ZPU-2 anti-aircraft weapon comes with a 14.5 mm diameter barrel and has been used extensively in several countries, including Libya.
4) Khawad heavy machine gun 12.7 x 108 mm
Furthermore, the Swiss SMALL ARMS SURVEY Foundation, which monitors the movement of weapons around the world, has confirmed, by email toDW, the Russian origin of three anti-warcraft weapons, as well as the Sudanese production of the Chinese 'Dushka' model.
However, China is by far not new on Sudanese grounds. As early as 2017, China was named as the largest exporter of arms to Sudan, in a report by the Conflict Armament Research Institute. The report highlights the vast number of heavy weapons that have reached Sudan despite a ban on arms imports that was imposed in 1994 and complemented by the 2005-U.N. embargo following the Darfur crisis.
Who owns the weapons?
The Rapid Support Forces (RSF), a militia of around 40,000 men led by General Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo, owns the majority of the heavy weapons seen in the videos. The militia even shows the weapons in posts on social media.
"It is very concerning that they are using those kinds of weapons in a law enforcement context," Simon Bagshaw, a former policy adviser at the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in Geneva and New York, and an expert on the protection of civilians in armed conflict and forced displacement, toldDW. While Bagshaw said such weapons are not prohibited in and of themselves — according to international laws, "it is a fortiori that these heavy weapons should not be used against civilians, and if they are used, this is a violation of the law related to the use of force against civilians."
'Unjustified violence requires accountability'
Furthermore, Major General Mamoun Abu Nawar, a military expert from Amman, Jordan, pointed out that "the imbalance between the use of weapons and the reasons for using them leads to the occurrence of a war crime." "This is unjustified violence that requires accountability within the framework of the Geneva and Rome Conventions," he said. "There is no meaning for a military victory over simple, unarmed civilians."
In turn, Antoine Saad, an expert in international law and based in Beirut, Lebanon, said Sudan's transitional authority has turned into a repressive authority that apparently committed a type of crime against humanity and genocide. "Shootings of this magnitude were never proportional to peaceful demonstrations," he said. The Lebanese legal expert said, "The use of heavy weapons such as anti-aircraft and mechanisms down to ordinary live bullets constitutes a crime of genocide and a crime against humanity, especially if this act takes a collective pattern."
International sanctions?
Following the condemnation of excessive force, international sanctions "may start with a siege on the authorities that commit such crimes, economically and financially," Antoine Saad toldDW. For this, he suggested Sudanese activists prepare a legal file that includes complete documented evidence about specific killings and injuries, that activists try to identify the people who carried out the aggression and identify the judicial authorities that refrained from punishing them. "The file should also include the political leaders who supervised these events, and once this criminal file is completed it should be referred to the prosecutor's office as soon as possible," he said.
CONTRIBUTE YOUR COMMENTS
SHARE THIS STORY
BACK TO TOP
Terms & conditions|Institutional Subscriber
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide to our communityguidelinesfor posting your comment

Title: 
	Sudan military used heavy weapons against protesters: NGOs - Frontline

Published :
Dec 15, 2021 16:50
IST
COMMents
SHARE
READ LATERSEE ALLRemove
The Rapid Support Forces in Sudan used anti-aircraft weapons to confront the demonstrators who rejected the military coup.
The deaths of at least 41 unarmed protesters in Sudan have caught the attention and condemnation of international observers. Despite the internet outage ordered by General Abdel-Fattah Burhan following the military coup on October 25, activists were able to document the use of anti-aircraft weapons and armor-piercing bullets. The footage shows clearly that the Sudanese Security Forces and militias such as the Rapid Support Forces confronted the demonstrators with weapons that are prohibited from being used against civilians and in cities.
Campaign to 'intimidate and suppress street protests'
Non-government organizations and rights groups have condemned the use of heavy arms against civilians as being in breach of humanitarian agreements that call for protecting civilians. Amnesty International has referred to the extremely violent military reaction in Sudan as "lethal force." "The deadly attack by Sudan's security authorities in the past two weeks was calculated to intimidate and suppress street protests against the military's takeover of power last month," Deprose Muchena, regional director for east and southern Africa at Amnesty International, commented in late November.
Meanwhile, the Sudan Doctors' Committee also has confirmed that Sudanese security forces used live ammunition to confront the demonstrators in Khartoum. Autopsy reports of at least 10 deaths received byDW Arabiafrom sources in Sudan show that gunshots caused the deaths. Sudanese security authorities — led by General Abdel-Fattah Burhan and the vice president of the Sudanese Sovereignty Council and commander of the RSF militia, General Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo — have denied any involvement in the demonstrators' deaths, saying they used "minimum force" to disperse anti-coup protesters.
What kind of weapons?
The Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), explained toDWwhat types of weapons mounted on four-wheel-drive vehicles can be seen in the videos.
1) ZPU-4 a towed anti-aircraft gun
This Russian anti-aircraft weapon is also produced and licensed in China as "56" and in Romania as MR-4. The first version of this weapon was the Soviet KPV 14.5 x 114 mm cannon, with a range of 8 km horizontally and about 5 km vertically.
2) ZU-23-2 anti-aircraft twin-barrelled autocannon
The Russian double-barrelled anti-aircraft weapon with a diameter of 23 mm has a range of about 2.5 km.
3) ZPU-2 14.5 mm anti-aircraft twin guns
The ZPU-2 anti-aircraft weapon comes with a 14.5 mm diameter barrel and has been used extensively in several countries, including Libya.
4) Khawad heavy machine gun 12.7 x 108 mm
Furthermore, the Swiss SMALL ARMS SURVEY Foundation, which monitors the movement of weapons around the world, has confirmed, by email toDW, the Russian origin of three anti-warcraft weapons, as well as the Sudanese production of the Chinese 'Dushka' model.
However, China is by far not new on Sudanese grounds. As early as 2017, China was named as the largest exporter of arms to Sudan, in a report by the Conflict Armament Research Institute. The report highlights the vast number of heavy weapons that have reached Sudan despite a ban on arms imports that was imposed in 1994 and complemented by the 2005-U.N. embargo following the Darfur crisis.
Who owns the weapons?
The Rapid Support Forces (RSF), a militia of around 40,000 men led by General Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo, owns the majority of the heavy weapons seen in the videos. The militia even shows the weapons in posts on social media.
"It is very concerning that they are using those kinds of weapons in a law enforcement context," Simon Bagshaw, a former policy adviser at the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in Geneva and New York, and an expert on the protection of civilians in armed conflict and forced displacement, toldDW. While Bagshaw said such weapons are not prohibited in and of themselves — according to international laws, "it is a fortiori that these heavy weapons should not be used against civilians, and if they are used, this is a violation of the law related to the use of force against civilians."
'Unjustified violence requires accountability'
Furthermore, Major General Mamoun Abu Nawar, a military expert from Amman, Jordan, pointed out that "the imbalance between the use of weapons and the reasons for using them leads to the occurrence of a war crime." "This is unjustified violence that requires accountability within the framework of the Geneva and Rome Conventions," he said. "There is no meaning for a military victory over simple, unarmed civilians."
In turn, Antoine Saad, an expert in international law and based in Beirut, Lebanon, said Sudan's transitional authority has turned into a repressive authority that apparently committed a type of crime against humanity and genocide. "Shootings of this magnitude were never proportional to peaceful demonstrations," he said. The Lebanese legal expert said, "The use of heavy weapons such as anti-aircraft and mechanisms down to ordinary live bullets constitutes a crime of genocide and a crime against humanity, especially if this act takes a collective pattern."
International sanctions?
Following the condemnation of excessive force, international sanctions "may start with a siege on the authorities that commit such crimes, economically and financially," Antoine Saad toldDW. For this, he suggested Sudanese activists prepare a legal file that includes complete documented evidence about specific killings and injuries, that activists try to identify the people who carried out the aggression and identify the judicial authorities that refrained from punishing them. "The file should also include the political leaders who supervised these events, and once this criminal file is completed it should be referred to the prosecutor's office as soon as possible," he said.
CONTRIBUTE YOUR COMMENTS
SHARE THIS STORY
BACK TO TOP
Terms & conditions|Institutional Subscriber
Comments have to be in English, and in full sentences. They cannot be abusive or personal. Please abide to our communityguidelinesfor posting your comment

Title: MSN


Title: Sudan Forces Accused of Sexual Attacks, Using Live Ammunition - allAfrica.com
Prime Minister Abdallah Hamdok is considering submitting hisresignationafter theUN called for an investigation into reports of serious sexual violenceand the use of live ammunition against protesters.
Two protesters also died after being shot and 300 others were injured, some were hit by live ammunition or tear gas canisters or beaten by security forces, while others suffered breathing difficulties after inhaling tear gas, according to UN rights office spokesperson Liz Throssell.The Darfur Bar Association has confirmed several incidents of sexual violence against a number of young women by soldiers immediately following theDecember 19 marches in Khartoum. The lawyers said in a statement that it had heard testimonies from some of the survivors and witnesses. According to the testimonies of some of the women, the attackers threatened to open criminal reports against them for engaging in sex work in order to force them to remain silent.Sunday's marches were convened by Resistance Committees across Sudan, to mark the third anniversary of the revolution that overthrew the 30-year Al Bashir dictatorship in 2019, and to express their rejection of the military coup d'état of October 25, and the subsequent political agreement, signed by coup leader Geneneral Abdelfattah El Burhan and Sudan's Prime Minister Abdallah Hamdok.
Sudan:Call for Investigation Into Rape Cases During Demos in Sudan Capital
Dabanga, 24 December 2021
Yesterday, Khartoum witnessed massive protest marches and vigils in various neighbourhoods to protest the sexual violence women demonstrators faced during the December 19 Marches…Read more »
Sudan:PM Abdallah Hamdok 'Deeply Frustrated' By Sudan's Political Crisis
Dabanga, 23 December 2021
The news that Prime Minister Abdallah Hamdok was considering submitting his resignation on Tuesday evening provoked widespread reactions in Sudanese public opinion, because it did…Read more »
Sudan:The Impact of Numerous Internet Disruptions
IFEX, 23 December 2021
Sudan's Numerous Internet Disruptions Coupled With Contentious Legislation Impact Heavily On Freedom of Expression and Digital Rights.Read more »
Sudan:Authorities Urged to Protect Women and Children Following Violence and Protests in Sudan
UN News, 23 December 2021
Authorities in Sudan must protect boys and girls from violence, a senior official with the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) said on Thursday, following recent deadly inter-communal…Read more »
Sudan:Protests - Security Forces in Spotlight Over Sexual Violence Allegations
UN News, 21 December 2021
In Sudan, reports of serious sexual violence and the use of live ammunition against protesters at the weekend must be investigated immediately, the UN rights office, OHCHR, said on…Read more »
Sudan:International Outrage At Sudan Demo Rapes, Harassment
Dabanga, 23 December 2021
The international community has made its voice heard against reports of rape, sexual violence and harassment by security forces during the December 19 Marches of the Millions, in…Read more »
Sudan:Sexual Violence At Sudan Protests - Women's Groups Call for Swift Justice
Dabanga, 23 December 2021
Reports of rape, sexual violence and harassment by security forces during the December 19 Marches of the Millions, in Khartoum on Sunday, have prompted a chorus of condemnation. In…Read more »
Sudan:December 19 Demos 'A Dark Day' for Sudanese Journalists
Dabanga, 23 December 2021
The December 19 Marches of the Millions, in Khartoum on Sunday marked a dark day for journalists in Sudan, with several reports of violence, detentions, and injuries to media…Read more »
Sudan:What The UN Said About Sudan Sexual Violence
OHCHR, 21 December 2021
Spokesperson for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights: Liz ThrossellRead more »
Sudan:UN Confirms Second Death, Multiple Rapes in Crackdown
DW, 21 December 2021
The UNHCR has said Sudanese security forces shot a man in the head and raped several women during protests against the country's military leaders. More protests are expected over…Read more »
Sudan:One Dead, Two Raped, 300+ Injured in Sudan Protest Marches
Dabanga, 21 December 2021
Resistance Committees, doctors, lawyers, and activists have condemned the excessively violent response by the Sudan Armed Forces and associated paramilitaries, to the December 19…Read more »
Sudan:December 19 Demos Reach Republican Palace Despite Blockades
Dabanga, 20 December 2021
The strategy employed by the Sudan Armed Forces (SAF and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) to thwart the December 19 Marches of the Millions in the capital Khartoum, and…Read more »
A poster promoting the December 19, 2021 Marches of the Millions across Sudan to mark the anniversary of the 2019 revolution.
Sudan:UN Condemns Reports of Sexual Assaults On Peaceful Protesters in Sudan
VOA, 21 December 2021
U.N. human rights officials are calling on Sudanese authorities to investigate and bring to justice members of the security forces accused of sexually assaulting several women and…Read more »
Sudan:Sudan Protests - UN High Commissioner Decries Reports of Rape, Harassment
Dabanga, 21 December 2021
The office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (UNHCHR), Michelle Bachelet, urges "a prompt, independent, and thorough investigation" after "deeply disturbing…Read more »
Sudan:UN Spec Rep Pledges to Support Human Rights Protection in Darfur
Dabanga, 21 December 2021
The Deputy Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General (DSRSG), and Resident Coordinator and Humanitarian Coordinator in Sudan, Khardiata Lo N'Diaye, has paid…Read more »
A Sudanese protester was shot dead during a "savage" crackdown on mass pro-democracy rallies on Sunday December 19, 2021, medics said. The Health Ministiry said 125 other people ...Read more »
Tens of thousands of people took to the streets in Khartoum and other cities across Sudan on November 30, 2021. The "Marches of the Millions" were called by resistance committees ...Read more »
AllAfrica publishes around 500 reports a day from more than100 news organizationsand over500 other institutions and individuals, representing a diversity of positions on every topic. We publish news and views ranging from vigorous opponents of governments to government publications and spokespersons. Publishers named above each report are responsible for their own content, which AllAfrica does not have the legal right to edit or correct.
Articles and commentaries that identify allAfrica.com as the publisher areproduced or commissioned by AllAfrica. To address comments or complaints, pleaseContact us.
AllAfrica is a voice of, by and about Africa - aggregating, producing and distributing 500 news and information items daily from over 100 African news organizations and our own reporters to an African and global public. We operate from Cape Town, Dakar, Abuja, Johannesburg, Nairobi and Washington DC.
Get the latest in African news delivered straight to your inbox
By submitting above, you agree toour privacy policy.
Almost finished...
We need to confirm your email address.
To complete the process, please follow the instructions in the email we just sent you.
There was a problem processing your submission. Please try again later.

Title: MSN


Title: Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo (Hemeti) | Profile | Africa Confidential
Reporting Africa Since 196029 August 2024
SudanMohamed Hamdan Dagalo (Hemeti)Date of Birth:1974 or 1975Place of Birth:ChadDisplaying 1-10 out of 99 results.123456...NextVol65No17|SUDANBurhan risks isolation by boycotting Geneva peace talks17th August 2024Seizing the propaganda initiative  RSF Commander GeneralMohamed Hamdan Dagalo‘Hemeti's authorised his delegation to attend the meeting  insisting it was serious about peace (AC Vol 65 No 15  Burhan's forces falter as Hemeti takes more ground)...Its main target was SAF Commander General Abdel Fattah al Burhan who responded by ruling out any negotiations with GenMohamed Hamdan Dagalo‘Hemeti' and the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) just when his stance on talks was beginning to ease...Vol65No17|KENYAKenyatta’s favourite minister plans presidential bid14th August 2024Ben-Menashe's African clients include the military junta in Burkina Faso  Sudan's GeneralMohamed Hamdan Dagaloaka Hemeti  and Congo-Brazzaville's president Denis Sassou-Nguesso...Vol65No15|SUDANBurhan’s forces falter as Hemeti takes more ground12th July 2024The war between GeneralMohamed Hamdan Dagalo‘Hemeti' and General Abdel Fattah al Burhan's forces ebbs and flows with only one certainty – that the position of civilians caught in the fighting and those fleeing from it will continue to worsen...Vol65No15|SUDANAs the civil war threatens the region, the UAE boosts Hemeti’s militia11th July 2024By common consent  the most egregious is the UAE's backing for the GeneralMohamed Hamdan Dagalo‘Hemeti' and the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) militia...PEACE TALKS FAIL AS ABU DHABI HOLDS ITS COURSE While diplomacy stutters in the face of a humanitarian catastrophe  an insouciant United Arab Emirates stands firmly in the corner of GeneralMohammed Hamdan Dagalo‘Hemeti''s Rapid Support Forces (RSF)...PEACE TALKS FAIL AS ABU DHABI HOLDS ITS COURSE While diplomacy stutters in the face of a humanitarian catastrophe  an insouciant United Arab Emirates stands firmly in the corner of GeneralMohammed Hamdan Dagalo‘Hemeti''s Rapid Support Forces (RSF)...DISPATCHESVol65No15|SUDANEgypt-backed peace talks make slow progress9th July 2024He also played up the prospects of a meeting between Sudan's army leader  General Abdel Fattah al Burhan  and RSF commander GenMohamed Hamdan Dagalo‘Hemeti' in the coming weeks...READ FOR FREEVol65No14|ETHIOPIASOMALIAUNITED ARAB EMIRATESSOMALILANDAbiy Ahmed’s sovereignty deal with Muse Abdi risks more regional turmoil27th June 2024Also  Berbera is part of the logistics train of UAE support for the Sudanese Rapid Support Forces (RSF) of GeneralMohamed Hamdan Dagalo‘Hemeti'  local sources have told us...Vol65No12|CHADForegone electoral conclusion cements Kaka's grip4th June 2024His appointment is a reward for running the Amdjaress airport in the far east  where the United Arab Emirates sent its supplies forMohamed Hamdan Dagalo'Hemeti' in Sudan and masses of Sudanese refugees are concentrated...DISPATCHESVol65No12|SUDANMoscow changes sides4th June 2024The Kremlin-linked mercenary group Wagner had previously provided surface-to-air missiles to the Rapid Support Forces led by GeneralMohamed Hamdan Dagaloaka 'Hemeti' (AC Vol 64 No 10  A war that hits everyone all at once & Vol 64 No 15  Hemeti's grand plan is stalemated)...READ FOR FREEVol65No10|CHADCoup zone election pits votes against tanks6th May 2024Most of all  they disagree with the policy of supporting GeneralMohammed Hamdan Dagalo'Hemeti''s Rapid Support Forces (RSF) in Sudan which is arming itself for the looming battle for El Fasher...Most of all  they disagree with the policy of supporting GeneralMohammed Hamdan Dagalo'Hemeti''s Rapid Support Forces (RSF) in Sudan which is arming itself for the looming battle for El Fasher...Vol65No9|SUDANFacing no pressure, the generals escalate their war again25th April 2024It's worth remembering that Burhan was a leading enforcer for Beshir's regime – along with his current foe GenMohamed Hamdan Dagalo'Hemeti' – in the killing of some 300 000 people in opposition areas in Darfur in the early 2000s...Displaying 1-10 out of 99 results.123456...Next
Date of Birth:1974 or 1975Place of Birth:Chad
Displaying 1-10 out of 99 results.
Seizing the propaganda initiative  RSF Commander GeneralMohamed Hamdan Dagalo‘Hemeti's authorised his delegation to attend the meeting  insisting it was serious about peace (AC Vol 65 No 15  Burhan's forces falter as Hemeti takes more ground)...
Its main target was SAF Commander General Abdel Fattah al Burhan who responded by ruling out any negotiations with GenMohamed Hamdan Dagalo‘Hemeti' and the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) just when his stance on talks was beginning to ease...
Ben-Menashe's African clients include the military junta in Burkina Faso  Sudan's GeneralMohamed Hamdan Dagaloaka Hemeti  and Congo-Brazzaville's president Denis Sassou-Nguesso...
The war between GeneralMohamed Hamdan Dagalo‘Hemeti' and General Abdel Fattah al Burhan's forces ebbs and flows with only one certainty – that the position of civilians caught in the fighting and those fleeing from it will continue to worsen...
By common consent  the most egregious is the UAE's backing for the GeneralMohamed Hamdan Dagalo‘Hemeti' and the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) militia...
PEACE TALKS FAIL AS ABU DHABI HOLDS ITS COURSE While diplomacy stutters in the face of a humanitarian catastrophe  an insouciant United Arab Emirates stands firmly in the corner of GeneralMohammed Hamdan Dagalo‘Hemeti''s Rapid Support Forces (RSF)...
PEACE TALKS FAIL AS ABU DHABI HOLDS ITS COURSE While diplomacy stutters in the face of a humanitarian catastrophe  an insouciant United Arab Emirates stands firmly in the corner of GeneralMohammed Hamdan Dagalo‘Hemeti''s Rapid Support Forces (RSF)...
He also played up the prospects of a meeting between Sudan's army leader  General Abdel Fattah al Burhan  and RSF commander GenMohamed Hamdan Dagalo‘Hemeti' in the coming weeks...
Also  Berbera is part of the logistics train of UAE support for the Sudanese Rapid Support Forces (RSF) of GeneralMohamed Hamdan Dagalo‘Hemeti'  local sources have told us...
His appointment is a reward for running the Amdjaress airport in the far east  where the United Arab Emirates sent its supplies forMohamed Hamdan Dagalo'Hemeti' in Sudan and masses of Sudanese refugees are concentrated...
The Kremlin-linked mercenary group Wagner had previously provided surface-to-air missiles to the Rapid Support Forces led by GeneralMohamed Hamdan Dagaloaka 'Hemeti' (AC Vol 64 No 10  A war that hits everyone all at once & Vol 64 No 15  Hemeti's grand plan is stalemated)...
Most of all  they disagree with the policy of supporting GeneralMohammed Hamdan Dagalo'Hemeti''s Rapid Support Forces (RSF) in Sudan which is arming itself for the looming battle for El Fasher...
Most of all  they disagree with the policy of supporting GeneralMohammed Hamdan Dagalo'Hemeti''s Rapid Support Forces (RSF) in Sudan which is arming itself for the looming battle for El Fasher...
It's worth remembering that Burhan was a leading enforcer for Beshir's regime – along with his current foe GenMohamed Hamdan Dagalo'Hemeti' – in the killing of some 300 000 people in opposition areas in Darfur in the early 2000s...
Displaying 1-10 out of 99 results.
Looking for a specific issue? Search our online archive of over two decades of Africa Confidential
Volume:6564636261605958575655545352515049484746454443424140393837
Number:1716151413121110987654321


Title: ICRC Sudan to train Rapid Support Forces on humanitarian law - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) in Sudan signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Rapid Support Forces in Khartoum on Tuesday. The Communist Party of Sudan has accused the country’s military of destabilising the situation in Sudan’s western region out of self-interest.
The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) in Sudan signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Rapid Support Forces in Khartoum on Tuesday. The Communist Party of Sudan has accused the country’s military of destabilising the situation in Sudan’s western region out of self-interest.
ICRC Sudan and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) will work together “to ensure that RSF officers and soldiers are adequately trained on the scope and applicability of the Geneva Conventions and other provisions of Human Rights Law,” the head of the ICRC delegation, Pascal Cuttat,said in a tweet yesterday.
Following the signing of the MoU agreement that took place at the militia’s headquarters in Khartoum, RSF Commander and Deputy Chairman of the Sovereignty Council, Lt Gen Mohamed ‘Hemeti’ Dagalo said he considers the memorandum “a strategic step in line with international law and conducive to the development of the RSF in scholarly fields and acquiring knowledge and training”.
He added that he is looking forward “to the development of the partnership and its continuation in order to establish well trained, capable forces committed to international agreements”.
Cuttat emphasised in his speech the importance of the partnership based on the principles of international humanitarian law in accordance with the Geneva Conventions, as women and children in particular will be protected after the trainings.
Resources
The Communist Party of Sudan (CPoS) has accused Sudan’s military as well as the rebel movements of destabilising the situation in Darfur to realise their personal goals.
CPoS leading member Adam Sharif said in a press conference at the party’s premises in Khartoum II on Tuesday that the conflicts in Darfur are not tribal but economical. The “systematic and planned attacks” should be understood as attempts to gain control over gold and uranium resources.
Sharif said that the country’s crises can only be solved by a democratic government in a country where the Rule of Law is respected, displaced people and refugees can safely return to their places of origin, and where a single professional army exists, and the various militias including the RSF as well as rebel movements have been dissolved.
Ahmed Ishag, member of the Committee for Stopping the Massacres in West Darfur, told reporters in El Geneina on Sunday that the renewed attacks on villages in the region in the past weeks have nothing to do with tribal conflicts. The violence erupted during “harvest time” and is meant to destroy livelihoods and chase the people from the region, he said.
The Darfur region is arich repository of precious minerals and metalssuch as uranium, gold, iron, copper, and zinc.
In December 2019, Radio Dabanga reported that RSF Commander Hemeti started arrangementsto hand over the mining areasin North Darfur’s Jebel Amer, allegedly controlled and exploited by theAl Junaid companyhe is linked with, to the authorities in Khartoum.
Ghost towns
The RSF, Sudan’slargest paramilitary force since 2013, has reportedlycarried out attacksagainst towns, farms, and civilians in Darfur since 2016. A number of these villages have been destroyed and have turned into ghost towns after residents fled the area, satellite images from before and after the attacks show.
People in West Darfur reported aboutRSF vehicles being used in attackson the state capital and surroundings earlier this year, and most recently onKereinik town and villagesin the vicinity.

Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title:  Bangkok Post - Almost 50 killed in Sudan Darfur tribal clashes: officials
PUBLISHED : 6 Dec 2021 at 23:45
WRITER:AFP
KHARTOUM - Close to 50 people have been killed in the latest outbreak of tribal violence in Sudan's Darfur region, a government official and medics said on Monday.
The latest flareup brings to around 100 the number of people killed over about three weeks in Sudan's westernmost region, which has been ravaged by unrest for years.
"The violence began with an argument and it spiralled into killing six people on Saturday and then on Sunday more than 40 people were killed," West Darfur governor Khamis Abdallah told AFP.
The Doctors' Committee, an independent union, said that 48 people were killed in the Krink area of Darfur by live ammunition.
Krink is about 80 kilometres (50 miles) from the state capital El Geneina.
Fifty people were killed last month in days of fighting between herders, the UN said. More than 1,000 homes were also set on fire.
That violence broke out on November 17 between armed Arab herders in the rugged Jebel Moon mountains close to the border with Chad.
Darfur was ravaged by a civil war that erupted in 2003, pitting ethnic minority rebels who complained of discrimination against the Arab-dominated government of then president Omar al-Bashir.
Khartoum responded by unleashing the Janjaweed militia, blamed for atrocities including murder, rape, looting and burning villages.
- Paramilitary -
The violence resulted in one of the world's worst humanitarian catastrophes. More than 300,000 people died and 2.5 million were displaced during the conflict, according to the United Nations.
Thousands of Janjaweed were later integrated into the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces led by Mohamed Hamdan Daglo, currently the number two leader in Sudan's military-civilian transitional ruling council.
Apart from Darfur's tribal unrest, nearly 45 people have been killed throughout Sudan during street rallies met with a crackdown from security forces since an October 25 military coup.
Sudanese police fire tear gas on Monday when thousands rallied in the capital Khartoum against the military-dominated government.
Top general Abdel Fattah al-Burhan seized power and detained Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok but, following sustained political pressure domestically and internationally, reinstated Hamdok in a November 21 deal.
Bashir, who is wanted by the International Criminal Court on charges of genocide in Darfur, was ousted and jailed in April 2019 after mass protests against his three-decade rule.
A peace deal struck with key rebel groups last year saw the main conflict in Darfur subside, but the arid region has remained awash with weapons. Violence often erupts over land, access to agriculture or water.
West Darfur also hosts more than 305,000 internally displaced people who rely heavily on humanitarian assistance.
On Monday, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) said 14.3 million of Sudan's population of 47.9 million, including both citizens and refugees, will require humanitarian assistance next year making it "the highest in a decade".
A UN peacekeeping mission ended its mandate in Darfur last year.
By subscribing, you accept theterms and conditionsin ourprivacy policy.

Title: Almost 50 killed in Sudan Darfur tribal clashes: Officials | Kuwait Times Newspaper
Share Options
KHARTOUM: A Sudanese boy lifts a banner which reads in Arabic "imagine the fear of the military of chants on the streets", during a rally in the capital Khartoum, yesterday, to protest a deal that saw the Prime Minister reinstated after his ouster in a military coup in October.—AFP
KHARTOUM:Close to 50 people have been killed in the latest outbreak of tribal violence in Sudan's Darfur region, a government official and medics said yesterday. The latest flareup brings to around 100 the number of people killed over about three weeks in Sudan's westernmost region, which has been ravaged by unrest for years.
"The violence began with an argument and it spiralled into killing six people on Saturday and then on Sunday more than 40 people were killed," West Darfur governor Khamis Abdallah told AFP. The Doctors' Committee, an independent union, said that 48 people were killed in the Krink area of Darfur by live ammunition. Krink is about 80 kilometres (50 miles) from the state capital El Geneina.
Fifty people were killed last month in days of fighting between herders, the UN said. More than 1,000 homes were also set on fire. That violence broke out on November 17 between armed Arab herders in the rugged Jebel Moon mountains close to the border with Chad.
Darfur was ravaged by a civil war that erupted in 2003, pitting ethnic minority rebels who complained of discrimination against the Arab-dominated government of then president Omar al-Bashir. Khartoum responded by unleashing the Janjaweed militia, blamed for atrocities including murder, rape, looting and burning villages.
Paramilitary
The violence resulted in one of the world's worst humanitarian catastrophes. More than 300,000 people died and 2.5 million were displaced during the conflict, according to the United Nations. Thousands of Janjaweed were later integrated into the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces led by Mohamed Hamdan Daglo, currently the number two leader in Sudan's military-civilian transitional ruling council.
Apart from Darfur's tribal unrest, nearly 45 people have been killed throughout Sudan during street rallies met with a crackdown from security forces since an October 25 military coup. Sudanese police fire tear gas yesterday when thousands rallied in the capital Khartoum against the military-dominated government.
Top general Abdel Fattah al-Burhan seized power and detained Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok but, following sustained political pressure domestically and internationally, reinstated Hamdok in a November 21 deal. Bashir, who is wanted by the International Criminal Court on charges of genocide in Darfur, was ousted and jailed in April 2019 after mass protests against his three-decade rule.
A peace deal struck with key rebel groups last year saw the main conflict in Darfur subside, but the arid region has remained awash with weapons. Violence often erupts over land, access to agriculture or water. West Darfur also hosts more than 305,000 internally displaced people who rely heavily on humanitarian assistance.
Yesterday, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) said 14.3 million of Sudan's population of 47.9 million, including both citizens and refugees, will require humanitarian assistance next year making it "the highest in a decade". A UN peacekeeping mission ended its mandate in Darfur last year. - AFP

Share Options
Categories

Title: UNITAMS head to report to UN Security Council on Sudan - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
The Special Representative of the Secretary General of the United Nations for Sudan (SRSG) and head of the United Nations Integrated Transition Assistance Mission In Sudan (UNITAMS), says that he will travel to New York today to present a report to the UN Security Council on the situation in Sudan.
The Special Representative of the Secretary General of the United Nations for Sudan (SRSG) and head of the United Nations Integrated Transition Assistance Mission In Sudan (UNITAMS), says that he will travel to New York today to present a report to the UN Security Council on the situation in Sudan.
During a meeting with the Vice-President of the Sovereignty Council, Lt Gen Mohamed ‘Hemeti’ Dagalo, on Tuesday, Perthes indicated that helistened to all parties, including the youth, calling for the importance of setting indicators for a political transition.
Hemeti, who is also Commander-in-Chief of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF), affirmed the continuation of efforts to form joint forces from the Sudan Armed Forces, the RSF, and former rebel fighters, as well as continuing consultations with the parties to find a solution to the crisis in eastern Sudan.
Hemeti indicated that the situation is moving in the right direction by committing to implementing the political declaration, stressing their full readiness to provide everything that would help the Prime Minister to perform his duties.
On Sunday, Perthes, welcomed a group ofrepresentatives of the local Resistance Committeesin Khartoum to the headquarters of UNITAMS. This followed the SRSG’s invitation to various representatives of Resistance Committees to engage in discussion and share their views on political developments in Sudan and Sudan’s democratic transition, UNITAMS said in a statement after the meeting.
Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: يا البرهان وين مخرجك.. وين مهربك وين ملجأك؟ .. بقلم: عثمان محمد حسن - سودانايل


Title: Sudan: Military used heavy weapons against protesters – DW – 12/14/2021
Footage shows the Sudanese Rapid Support Forces used anti-aircraft weapons to confront unarmed protesters. Lawyers have said there could be grounds to accuse military authorities of crimes against humanity.
The deaths of at least 41unarmed protestersin Sudan have caught the attention and condemnation of international observers.
Despite the internet outage ordered by General Abdel-Fattah Burhan following themilitary coupon October 25, activists were able to document the use of anti-aircraft weapons and armor-piercing bullets.
The footage shows clearly that theSudanese Security Forcesand militias such as the Rapid Support Forces confronted the demonstrators with weapons that are prohibited from being used against civilians and in cities.
Non-government organizations and rights groups have condemned the use of heavy arms against civilians as being in breach of humanitarian agreements that call for protecting civilians.
Amnesty International has referred to the extremely violent military reaction in Sudan as "lethal force."
"The deadly attack by Sudan's security authorities in the past two weeks was calculated to intimidate and suppress street protests against the military's takeover of power last month," Deprose Muchena, regional director for east and southern Africa at Amnesty International,commentedin late November.
Meanwhile, also the Sudan Doctors' Committee has confirmed that Sudanese security forces usedlive ammunitionto confront the demonstrators in Khartoum.
Autopsy reports of at least 10 deaths received by DW Arabia from sources in Sudan show that gunshots caused the deaths.
Sudanese security authorities — led byGeneral Abdel-Fattah Burhanand the vice president of the Sudanese Sovereignty Council and commander of the RSF militia, General Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo — have denied any involvement in the demonstrators' deaths, saying they used "minimum force" to disperse anti-coup protesters.
TheStockholm International Peace Research Institute(SIPRI), explained to DW what types of weapons mounted on four-wheel-drive vehicles can be seen in the videos.
1) ZPU-4 a towed anti-aircraft gun
This Russian anti-aircraft weapon is also produced and licensed in China as "56" and in Romania as MR-4. The first version of this weapon was the Soviet KPV 14.5 x 114 mm cannon, with a range of 8 km horizontally and about 5 km vertically.
2) ZU-23-2 anti-aircraft twin-barrelled autocannon
The Russian double-barrelled anti-aircraft weapon with a diameter of 23 mm has a range of about 2.5 km.
3) ZPU-2 14.5 mm anti-aircraft twin guns
The ZPU-2 anti-aircraft weapon comes with a 14.5 mm diameter barrel and has been used extensively in several countries, including Libya
4) Khawad heavy machine gun 12.7 x 108 mm
Furthermore, theSwiss SMALL ARMS SURVEYFoundation, which monitors the movement of weapons around the world, has confirmed, by email to DW, the Russian origin of three anti-warcraft weapons, as well as the Sudanese production of the Chinese 'Dushka' model.
However, China is by far not new on Sudanese grounds.
As early as 2017, China was named as the largest exporter of arms to Sudan, in areportby the Conflict Armament Research Institute.
The report highlights the vast number of heavy weapons that have reached Sudan despite a ban on arms imports that was imposed in 1994 and complemented by the 2005-UN embargofollowing the Darfur crisis.
The Rapid Support Forces (RSF), a militia of around 40,000 men led by General Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo, owns the majority of the heavy weapons seen in the videos. The militia even shows the weapons inposts on social media.
"It is very concerning that they are using those kinds of weapons in a law enforcement context," Simon Bagshaw, a former policy adviser at the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in Geneva and New York, and an expert on the protection of civilians in armed conflict and forced displacement, told DW.
While Bagshaw said such weapons are not prohibited in and of themselves — according to international laws, "it is a fortiori that these heavy weapons should not be used against civilians, and if they are used, this is a violation of the law related to the use of force against civilians."
Furthermore, Major General Mamoun Abu Nawar, a military expert from Amman, Jordan, pointed out that "the imbalance between the use of weapons and the reasons for using them leads to the occurrence of a war crime."
"This is unjustified violence that requires accountability within the framework of the Geneva and Rome Conventions," he said. "There is no meaning for a military victory over simple, unarmed civilians."
In turn,  Antoine Saad, an expert in international law and based in Beirut, Lebanon, said Sudan'stransitional authorityhas turned into a repressive authority that apparently committed a type of crime against humanity and genocide.
"Shootings of this magnitude were never proportional to peaceful demonstrations," he said.
The Lebanese legal expert said, "The use of heavy weapons such as anti-aircraft and mechanisms down to ordinary live bullets constitutes a crime of genocide and a crime against humanity, especially if this act takes a collective pattern."
Following the condemnation of excessive force, international sanctions "may start with a siege on the authorities that commit such crimes, economically and financially," Antoine Saad told DW.
For this, he suggested Sudanese activists prepare a legal file that includes complete documented evidence about specific killings and injuries, that activists try to identify the people who carried out the aggression and identify the judicial authorities that refrained from punishing them.
"The file should also include the political leaders who supervised these events, and once this criminal file is completed it should be referred to the prosecutor's office as soon as possible," he said.

This article has been adapted into English by Jennifer Holleis.

Title: Sudan: Military used heavy weapons against protesters – DW – 12/14/2021
Footage shows the Sudanese Rapid Support Forces used anti-aircraft weapons to confront unarmed protesters. Lawyers have said there could be grounds to accuse military authorities of crimes against humanity.
The deaths of at least 41unarmed protestersin Sudan have caught the attention and condemnation of international observers.
Despite the internet outage ordered by General Abdel-Fattah Burhan following themilitary coupon October 25, activists were able to document the use of anti-aircraft weapons and armor-piercing bullets.
The footage shows clearly that theSudanese Security Forcesand militias such as the Rapid Support Forces confronted the demonstrators with weapons that are prohibited from being used against civilians and in cities.
Non-government organizations and rights groups have condemned the use of heavy arms against civilians as being in breach of humanitarian agreements that call for protecting civilians.
Amnesty International has referred to the extremely violent military reaction in Sudan as "lethal force."
"The deadly attack by Sudan's security authorities in the past two weeks was calculated to intimidate and suppress street protests against the military's takeover of power last month," Deprose Muchena, regional director for east and southern Africa at Amnesty International,commentedin late November.
Meanwhile, also the Sudan Doctors' Committee has confirmed that Sudanese security forces usedlive ammunitionto confront the demonstrators in Khartoum.
Autopsy reports of at least 10 deaths received by DW Arabia from sources in Sudan show that gunshots caused the deaths.
Sudanese security authorities — led byGeneral Abdel-Fattah Burhanand the vice president of the Sudanese Sovereignty Council and commander of the RSF militia, General Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo — have denied any involvement in the demonstrators' deaths, saying they used "minimum force" to disperse anti-coup protesters.
TheStockholm International Peace Research Institute(SIPRI), explained to DW what types of weapons mounted on four-wheel-drive vehicles can be seen in the videos.
1) ZPU-4 a towed anti-aircraft gun
This Russian anti-aircraft weapon is also produced and licensed in China as "56" and in Romania as MR-4. The first version of this weapon was the Soviet KPV 14.5 x 114 mm cannon, with a range of 8 km horizontally and about 5 km vertically.
2) ZU-23-2 anti-aircraft twin-barrelled autocannon
The Russian double-barrelled anti-aircraft weapon with a diameter of 23 mm has a range of about 2.5 km.
3) ZPU-2 14.5 mm anti-aircraft twin guns
The ZPU-2 anti-aircraft weapon comes with a 14.5 mm diameter barrel and has been used extensively in several countries, including Libya
4) Khawad heavy machine gun 12.7 x 108 mm
Furthermore, theSwiss SMALL ARMS SURVEYFoundation, which monitors the movement of weapons around the world, has confirmed, by email to DW, the Russian origin of three anti-warcraft weapons, as well as the Sudanese production of the Chinese 'Dushka' model.
However, China is by far not new on Sudanese grounds.
As early as 2017, China was named as the largest exporter of arms to Sudan, in areportby the Conflict Armament Research Institute.
The report highlights the vast number of heavy weapons that have reached Sudan despite a ban on arms imports that was imposed in 1994 and complemented by the 2005-UN embargofollowing the Darfur crisis.
The Rapid Support Forces (RSF), a militia of around 40,000 men led by General Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo, owns the majority of the heavy weapons seen in the videos. The militia even shows the weapons inposts on social media.
"It is very concerning that they are using those kinds of weapons in a law enforcement context," Simon Bagshaw, a former policy adviser at the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in Geneva and New York, and an expert on the protection of civilians in armed conflict and forced displacement, told DW.
While Bagshaw said such weapons are not prohibited in and of themselves — according to international laws, "it is a fortiori that these heavy weapons should not be used against civilians, and if they are used, this is a violation of the law related to the use of force against civilians."
Furthermore, Major General Mamoun Abu Nawar, a military expert from Amman, Jordan, pointed out that "the imbalance between the use of weapons and the reasons for using them leads to the occurrence of a war crime."
"This is unjustified violence that requires accountability within the framework of the Geneva and Rome Conventions," he said. "There is no meaning for a military victory over simple, unarmed civilians."
In turn,  Antoine Saad, an expert in international law and based in Beirut, Lebanon, said Sudan'stransitional authorityhas turned into a repressive authority that apparently committed a type of crime against humanity and genocide.
"Shootings of this magnitude were never proportional to peaceful demonstrations," he said.
The Lebanese legal expert said, "The use of heavy weapons such as anti-aircraft and mechanisms down to ordinary live bullets constitutes a crime of genocide and a crime against humanity, especially if this act takes a collective pattern."
Following the condemnation of excessive force, international sanctions "may start with a siege on the authorities that commit such crimes, economically and financially," Antoine Saad told DW.
For this, he suggested Sudanese activists prepare a legal file that includes complete documented evidence about specific killings and injuries, that activists try to identify the people who carried out the aggression and identify the judicial authorities that refrained from punishing them.
"The file should also include the political leaders who supervised these events, and once this criminal file is completed it should be referred to the prosecutor's office as soon as possible," he said.

This article has been adapted into English by Jennifer Holleis.

Title: Sudan is Backsliding Dangerously | Human Rights Watch
Since the October 25 military takeover, violent repression has returned in full force. Can the international community support the rule of law?
MoOsman88
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
In September, I sat down in Khartoum with the mother of a medical student killed by security forces during Sudan’s 2018-2019 protests.
“The reason why I wake up every day is that I have a little hope that I can find justice for my son,” she confided. “This will not be only for him, but to prevent other parents from having to face the devastation of losing their children because of state violence.”
In this period of uncertainty for Sudan, one thing is clear: It would be fundamentally wrong and dangerous to jettison justice for serious past and more recent abuses in the name of political expediency.
Our research and that of many other organizations to document widespread abuses in Sudan over the last three decades shows that rampant impunity for atrocities has fueled ongoing violations and insecurity. This impunity has long allowed abusers sitting at the head of the command chain to wield more power.
Key leaders within the military side of the power-sharing government that was ousted by the military on October 25 were themselves a carryover from the regime that was ousted in April 2019, with their own share of unanswered alleged abuses. In fact, just a few months before the signing of the transitional agreement in August 2019, these same military leaders — including Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo (“Hemedti”), the commander of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) — oversaw theviolent dispersal of the protesters’ sit inin Khartoum.
Sudan’s transition has been a turbulent one from the get-go. The transitional government had to deal with the heavy legacy of past repression, including how to handle former president Omar al-Bashir and two other high level officialswantedby the International Criminal Court on charges of genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes. All this while tackling a terrible economic reality.
Abuses continued during the transition, and impunity for serious crimes remained largely the norm.
While some small but important progress was made on accountability — notably through a handful of prosecutions for protest killings, embryoniclegal reforms, andimproved cooperationwith the International Criminal Court — Sudan’s partners could have done more to bolster the reforms on which success of the transition toward civilian rule depended.
Instead, security forces were able to continue to push back on essential actions for ensuring justice, including lifting immunity, handing over members of the security forces, and security sector reform. Many Sudanese became increasingly frustrated that not enough attention was being given to their calls for justice.
The impact was felt throughout the country, and nowhere more than in restive Darfur, the site of decades of atrocities by the former regime.
Over the last two years, West Darfur’s capital, Al-Genaina, has been wracked by three bouts of serious fighting, which left hundreds dead, thousands displaced, and resulted in massive destruction of civilian property. After the hybrid peacekeeping mission in the region had withdrawn, the government was charged with protecting civilians, but our research has shown how RSF forces — the very forces responsible for years of abuses there — attacked civilians while other security forces stood by.
The military takeover on October 25 punctured the hopes for Sudan’s transition to civilian rule. In the days that followed, the gloves came off, and the security forces resorted to their well-trodden and brutal tactics. They used excessive, including lethal, force against peaceful protesters; forcibly disappeared over two dozen high-level officials and protest leaders; and shut down the internet. At least 38people have been killedin Khartoum, and hundreds have been injured across the country.
As protests against the takeover have continued, domestic, regional, and international actors have offered to mediate to reach a political deal. Among others, the UN Integrated Mission to Support the Transition in Sudanhad offered its good officesto assist such dialogue.
Protesters are concerned by the lack of transparency surrounding these multiple initiatives and fear these processes could yet again end up allowing abusers, including military commanders, off the hook. Media reports on discussions underway have not included any reference to accountability.
If the international community wants to put a sustainable end to cycles of instability and repression in Sudan, it needs to prioritize justice and send an unambiguous message that committing abuses will no longer be a means to operate, far less succeed. It is also the essential starting block to build a society based on respect for rule of law and rights.
All political processes in Sudan need to guarantee that there will be no rollbacks on gains made during the transition, no immunity handed out, and that international actors cannot afford to put justice on the back-burner. The last two weeks have shown all too well that this doesn’t end well. It only empowers the abusers.
UK and US Forced Displacement of the Chagossians and Ongoing Colonial Crimes
The Special Criminal Court, a New Opportunity for Victims in the Central African Republic
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
Human Rights Watch defends the rights of people in close to 100 countries worldwide, spotlighting abuses and bringing perpetrators to justice
Get updates on human rights issues from around the globe. Join our movement today.
Every weekday, get the world’s top human rights news, explored and explained by Andrew Stroehlein.
Human Rights Watchis a 501(C)(3) nonprofit registered in the US under EIN: 13-2875808

Title: Afropages : l’actualité de la presse africaine








Agence Olloweb: Etude et conduite de projet, prototypage, graphisme, codage de l'environnement graphique -Publinoves communication: Logotype -Orthographe Plus: Rédactionnels -Ovh: Hébergement -Google: Statistiques, polices de caractères -Développement: HTML5, CSS3, JQUERY, PHP7 -Applications: Adobe® Photoshop®, Adobe® Illustrator®, Panic® Nova® -Année/projet: 2022-2023

Title: بيان من شبكة دعم الثورة السودانية بالسويد - سودانايل


Title: Sudan Gunmen Loot UN Food Aid Warehouse in Darfur
Sudanese gunmen have looted a World Food Programme warehouse containing about 1,900 tonnes of food aid in Darfur amid a surge of violence in the western region, officials said Wednesday.
Residents of El Fasher, the capital of North Darfur state, reported heavy shooting near the warehouse late Tuesday, and the local authorities have imposed a night-time curfew on the town after the attack, state news agencySUNAreported.
“We heard intense gunfire,” local residentMohamed SalemtoldAFP.
A WFP official said the organization was “conducting an audit into what was stolen from the warehouse, which contained some 1,900 tonnes of food products”, intended to be lifesaving supplies for some of the most vulnerable people.
“One in three people in Sudan needs humanitarian assistance,” saidKhardiata Lo N’diaye, the UN humanitarian coordinator for Sudan. “Humanitarian assistance should never be a target.”
On Twitter, Darfur GovernorMini Minawidenounced a “barbaric act” and said those responsible “will face justice.”
The vast, arid, and impoverished region awash with guns is still reeling from a conflict that broke out under former president Omar al-Bashir in 2003, leaving hundreds of thousands dead.
The unrest pitted ethnic minority rebels, who complained of discrimination, against the Arab-dominated government of then-presidentOmar al-Bashir.
Khartoum responded by unleashing the Janjaweed militia, blamed for atrocities including murder, rape, looting and burning villages.
Thousands of Janjaweed were later integrated into the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces led byMohamed Hamdan Daglo, currently the number two in Sudan’s ruling council.
Bashir is wanted by the International Criminal Court oncharges of genocide in Darfur. He was ousted and jailed in April 2019 after mass protests against his three-decade rule.
While the main conflict in Darfur has subsided under a peace deal struck with key rebel groups last year,violence continues to erupt.
The region has seen a spike in conflict since October triggered by disputes over land, livestock, and access to water and grazing, with around 250 people killed in fighting between herders and farmers.
Tens of thousands have been forced to flee their homes, according to the International Organization for Migration (IOM).
The violence has occurred while Sudan reels from political turbulence in thewake of a coup led by military chiefGeneralAbdel Fattah al-Burhanon October 25.
Last week, United Nations Secretary-GeneralAntonio Guterrescondemned looting and reported violence near a former UN logistics base in El Fasher that had been handed over to the local authorities days earlier.
A joint UN and African Union mission, UNAMID, ended 13 years of peacekeeping operations in December last year, but Guterres said “substantial amounts of equipment and supplies” from the looted base were intended to be used by Sudanese communities.
More than 14 million Sudanese will need humanitarian aid next year, according to the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, the highest level for a decade.
The Defense Post aims to publish a wide range of high-quality opinion and analysis from a diverse array of people – do you want to send us yours?Click here to submit an Op-Ed

Title: ما وراء الإستهداف الممنهج ضد النازحين والمدنيين في السودان ولا سيما في إقليم دارفور - سودان تربيون
سودان تربيون
أخبار السودان وتقارير حصرية لحظة بلحظة
سودان تربيون
أخبار السودان وتقارير حصرية لحظة بلحظة
بقلم: آدم رُجال
آدم رجاللا شك أن الشعب السوداني يتابع وبصمت، الأوضاع الأمنية الملتهبة في جميع أنحاء السودان، وخاصة في إقليم دارفور، لا سيما مدن ومحليات غرب وشمال وجنوب ووسط دارفور، حيث حشود المليشيات المُسلحة، الجنجويد بمعظم مناطق الموارد الطبيعية، ومعسكرات النازحين.
يعتري النازحين في خضم هذا الحشد المسلح، الذي يعد جزء من تجليات الوضع الأمني الذي صار أكثر انزلاقا نحو الفوضى الخلاقة في هذا الإقليم الذي عانا طويلاً من الحرب العبثية التي تقودها الحكومة السودانية ضد شعبها الأعزل، فكل يوم تتواتر الأخبار الصادمة، المحزنة وكأن القتل والتشريد أصبح يلازم ويرافق الإنسان الهادئ في الهامش السوداني، وانه أصبح هدفاً أساسياً، للمليشيات العسكرية التي استباحت حياة السودانيين.
رغم القضاء على سيطرة الرئيس المخلوع عمر البشير، عن السلطة في ابريل 2019م، غير ان الحكومة الانتقالية، التي شُكلت كنتيجة لثورة ديسمبر، والتي إنڨلب عليها عبدالفتاح البرهان، تواطأت مع الجنجويد وبسند من حكوة الإقليم «الكيزانية» للسير في نهج القتل الجماعي والفردي والاغتصاب والسلب والنهب والاختطاف والحرق والتعذيب، دون أن تكن ثمة عدالة.
إن قضية تحقيق العدالة، في السودان، باتت كأنها امر مستحيلا، وما يدلل ذلك ان معظم الأحزاب والقادة السياسيين، يتحدثون عنها قبل وصولهم الي السلطة ويستمر ذلك حتى بعده، بيد ان ذلك تحقيق العدالة مجرد مفردة تستخدم في الخطاب لزيادة حلاوة طعمه، ويبقى القليل من هؤلاء الخطباء لديه ضمير إنساني والتزام أخلاقي، للتضامن هؤلاء الضحايا والعمل على وقف انتهاك حقوقهم، ويصبح السؤال الثابت إزاء هذه الوضع، الم يكن نحن بشر مثل الأخيرين؟!، وأليس لدينا حقوقا إنسانية كالأخرين؟! أليس من حق العيش بكرامة اسوة بالأخرين؟!.
لقد ارتكبت مليشيات الجنجويد، ضدنا، أبشع انواع الجرائم، ولكن لا حياة لمن تنادي، إلى متي نستمر في هذه الحالة؟! وإلى متي تستمر الحكومات السودانية المتعاقبة، في انتهاكات حقوقنا المكفولة إقليميا ودوليا، ورغم اصالتنا السودانية التي لا غوبار عليها.
على اية حال لن نغفر قط للمجرمين الذين ارتكبوا ضدنا جرائم الإبادة الجماعية وجرائم التطهير العرقي وجرائم ضد الإنسانية وجرائم الحرب، في أي مكان، وستظل لعنة الدمار الشامل الذي خلفوه في إقليم دارفور، وجبال النوبة، والنيل الأزرق، وشرق السودان، وأقصى الشمال النوبي، وفي الكنابي، وفي أي بقعة من بقاء السودان تطاردهم، كما لم ولن نتنازل عن قضيانا وسنظل ندافع عنها الي أن يسود العدل في قمم الجبال أو أن نموت دون ذلك.
ولطالما الحرية والعدل والسلام والديمقراطية حقوقا مكفولة لنا، فلن نتنازل عنها حتى ولو كلفت ارواح، وأن بقية شخص واحد فقط فينا حر لكي يعيش بسلام ونعيم أفضل من أن نعيش في ظل استمرار الانتهاكات البشعة كما فعل النظام البائد، الذي كان يقف وراء معظم الاستهداف الممنهج ضد النازحين والمدنيين في السودان.
[email protected]
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

جميع الحقوق محفوظة @ 2024  | سودان تريبيون