Title: Vorwurf gegen Saudi-Arabien wegen Einsatz von Kindersoldaten | SN.at
von
0 Kommentare
Artikel drucken
Artikel teilen
Die SOS-Kinderdörfer weltweit werfen Saudi-Arabien vor, im Krieg im Jemen sudanesische Kindersoldaten einzusetzen. Mehr als 2.000 Kämpfer aus dem Sudan seien dort bereits gestorben, darunter viele Kinder, wie die Organisation am Mittwoch in München laut Kathpress mitteilte. Die Kämpfer aus dem nordafrikanischen Land würden in dem Konflikt an vorderster Front eingesetzt.
Nach Angaben der Helfer werden die Kinder von der paramilitärischen sudanesischen Gruppe RSF (Rapid Sudanese Forces) im Auftrag der Regierung rekrutiert und dann von Saudi-Arabien im Jemen eingesetzt. "Die Familien der Kinder kommen alle aus der Darfur-Region und leben in bitterer Armut, da sind die Eltern leicht zu ködern", sagte Abdelrahman Mubarak, Leiter der Hilfsorganisation im Sudan.
Etliche Kinder und Jugendliche seien zudem von der RSF gekidnappt worden und hätten bereits im sudanesischen Bürgerkrieg gekämpft. Wer Kindersoldaten einsetze, begehe ein Kriegsverbrechen, mahnten die Helfer.
Im Jemen unterstützt seit mehr als drei Jahren eine von Saudi-Arabien angeführte Koalition die sunnitisch geprägte Regierung im Kampf gegen die schiitischen Houthi-Rebellen, die vom Iran unterstützt werden. Hilfsorganisationen warnen vor einer der schlimmsten humanitären Katastrophen der vergangenen Jahrzehnte.

Title: Sudan’s Omar al-Bashir blames infiltrators for anti-government protest deaths | CNN
Sudan’s President Omar al-Bashir blamed infiltrators for the recent deaths of anti-government protesters a speech Sunday while vowing to respect the will of the people in the 2020 elections.
The speech marked a month since the protests against Bashir’s government began on December 19.
The President said his forces had arrested men who confessed that they “were instructed to infiltrate the protests and kill the protesters in order to fuel the conflict, instigate sedition, and destroy the country.”
Demonstrations first began over fuel shortages and a hike in food prices but have now morphed into full-fledged protests calling for Bashir to step down. The authoritarian President has ruled Sudan with an iron grip for 30 years.
Related articleJanjaweed, ghost squads and a divided nation: How Sudan's Bashir stays in power
“The Sudanese people decide who rules them,” he told hundreds of his supporters in the White Nile state. “This decision is made through the ballot boxes. 2020 is not far. We have a year until then. After a year, the Sudanese people will decide who will rule them.”
Bashir added: “We stand by the choice of the Sudanese people. We respect people’s choice. We gave power to citizens to choose their … MPs and their government … through free elections.”
A doctor, a teenager and another manwere killed Thursdayin the ongoing anti-government protests, according to the Sudan Doctors’ Union and activists.
The doctor, Abdel Hamid, died after being shot in the head “while resuscitating other protesters,” according to the Sudan Doctors’ Union and another protester on the scene who witnessed his death. The witness has asked CNN not to disclose her name for safety reasons.
The Sudanese government has confirmed the deaths of 24 people in the course of the protests, according to the UN statement, “but other credible reports suggest the death toll may be nearly twice as high.” Many other people have been injured, the UN said.
On Friday, four human rights organizations voiced concern in a news release over the arrest of at least 816 people since January 7, citing the Sudanese Interior Ministry. The news release said those detained include protesters, doctors, journalists, lawyers and opposition party leaders.
In 2010 the International Criminal Court charged Bashir with crimes against humanity, including genocide, related to the Darfur conflict in Sudan.
Sudan is oil-rich but poverty is rife in the country, with many of Bashir’s critics attributing its economic woes to widespread corruption.
© 2024 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.

Title: Doctor, teenager killed in Sudan protests | CNN
A doctor, a teenager and another man were killed on Thursday inongoing anti-government protestsin Sudan, according to the Sudan Doctors’ Union and activists.
The demonstrations first began over fuel shortages and a hike in food prices but have now morphed into full-fledged protests calling for President Omar al-Bashir to step down. The authoritarian Bashir has ruled Sudan with an iron grip for 30 years.
Thursday’s deaths occurred during unrest in the Bahri neighborhood in the north of the capital, Khartoum.
Related articleJanjaweed, ghost squads and a divided nation: How Sudan's Bashir stays in power
The doctor, Abdel Hamid, died after being shot in the head “while resuscitating other protesters,” according to the Sudan Doctors’ Union and another protester on the scene who witnessed his death. The witness has asked CNN not to disclose her name for safety reasons.
The Sudan Doctors’ Union said a “child” called Mohammed Obeid also died in the protests after being shot in the head. The same eyewitness told CNN she knows the younger victim’s family and that he was only 14 years old.
The third death was that of Moawiya Bashir, who was shot to death after security forces accused him of hosting protesters inside his house, the Sudan Doctors Union said in a statement posted in Arabic on Facebook.
An activist who is a member of the network of professionals organizing the demonstrations and was present at the protests also confirmed his death to CNN.
Bahri has been the site of some of the largest of Sudan’s demonstrations since they began on December 19. Protesters described a heavy security presence there Thursday.
Sudanese state media has not reported any government reaction to Thursday’s deaths. A spokesman for the governing National Congress Party declined to comment on the matter to CNN.
Related videoDemonstrators, police clash in Sudan protests
The protests are being organized and documented by multiple groups, including the Sudan Professionals Association and a media working group, with no centralized leadership.
The groups are made up of a network of Sudanese activists, journalists, doctors and filmmakers who are documenting, archiving and sharing videos, photos and witness accounts.
Security forces have sought to quashprevious protestsby shooting live rounds and tear gas into crowds of peaceful demonstrators, witnesses have told CNN.
UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet expressed concern Thursday over the government’s response to the protests and urged it to resolve the situation through dialogue.
“A repressive response can only worsen grievances,” Bachelet said in a statement issued before the latest deaths were reported.
“I am very concerned about reports of excessive use of force, including live ammunition, by Sudanese State Security Forces during large-scale demonstrations in various parts of the country since 19 December. The government needs to ensure that security forces handle protests in line with the country’s international human rights obligations by facilitating and protecting the right to peaceful assembly.”
Related articleSudan opposition leader arrested after protest crackdown, party says
The Sudanese government has confirmed the deaths of 24 people in the course of the protests, according to the UN statement, “but other credible reports suggest the death toll may be nearly twice as high.” Many other people have been injured, the UN said.
Four human rights organizations voiced concernin a news release Fridayover the arrest of hundreds of protesters across the country since the protests began.
The news release cited the Sudanese Interior Ministry as saying at least 816 people had been detained as of January 7. They include protesters, doctors, journalists, lawyers and opposition party leaders, the rights groups said.
“The number of arbitrary arrests related to the recent protests is huge, and the government seems intent on pursuing more arrests, repression, and other abuses as long as the protests continue,” said Mossaad Mohammed Ali, executive director of the African Centre for Justice and Peace Studies, one of the four organizations involved.
“Violence won’t help Sudan overcome its many problems,” said Jehanne Henry, associate Africa director at Human Rights Watch, another of the signatories. “Rather than using violence and abuses to clamp down on dissent, Sudan needs to engage peacefully with protesters’ concerns.”
In 2010, the International Criminal Court charged Bashir with crimes against humanity, including genocide, related to the Darfur conflict in Sudan.
Sudan is oil-rich, but poverty is rife in the country, with many of Bashir’s critics attributing its economic woes to widespread corruption.
CNN’s Katie Polglase and Radina Gigova contributed to this report.
© 2024 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.

Title: The Crisis of the Sudanese Regime | libcom.org
It was the tripling of bread prices which sparked off the current revolt in Sudan. People first took to the streets in the town of Atbara in north eastern Sudan on 19 December 2018, but they did not restrict their demands to bread even though some had not managed to find any in four days. They had had enough of the brutal military dictatorship of Omar Hassan al-Bashir which has ruled the country since 1989. The protestors not only demanded “freedom, peace, and justice” but also echoed the slogan of the 2011 Arab Spring that “the people want the fall of the regime.” As a symbol of their wider political demands, the ruling party headquarters in Atbara was burned to the ground.
The regime of Omar al-Bashir is no stranger to crisis or to protests, and Sudanese popular movements have already overthrown two military dictatorships since 1964. Al-Bashir is well aware of this. He has carried out all kinds of brutal acts to stay in power since his coup in 1989 which overthrew the last elected government of Sadiq al-Mahdi. Many of his fellow officers from that time were executed as he made the army his source of power. His brutality and mismanagement has not gone unchallenged. In the last few years there have been demonstrations against attempts to cut fuel and bread subsidies (demanded usually by the IMF as the price for any loan). The first was in 2012, but in September 2013 200 peaceful protesters against fuel price rises were shot dead by his police, and further protests were similarly dealt with in 2015, in January 2017 and again in February 2018. Doctors, students, and leaders of opposition political parties have all been hanged for their opposition, and many professional associations, unions and parties have been banned.
The regime has also learned from past insurrections. In October 1964 Ibrahim Abboud’s military dictatorship was overthrown, followed by that of Jafaf Nimeiri in April 1985.1Popular uprisings of students, professionals and workers succeeded when troops in the capital Khartoum, who were supposedly loyal to the regime, went over to the side of the insurgents. Today those troops are largely dispersed to the regions, whilst dealing with the current resistance in Khartoum is left to riot police and al-Bashir’s own praetorian guard plus the Rapid Support Forces (also know as the Janjaweed militia).
“The government has declared a state of emergency and imposed curfews in towns where some of the first protests took place. Schools and universities have been closed. National newspapers have been censored or shut down. The Internet has been disrupted, and several phone carriers have restricted access to WhatsApp and other social media sites. Security forces have deployed tear gas and live ammunition against protesters as the death toll reaches 37 and continues to rise.”2
In addition, journalists and ordinary citizens taking photos have been arrested, beaten or harassed as the government attempts to impose a news blackout. However, indications are that the strategy of dispersing troops to local regions may be backfiring. Unconfirmed reports on social media suggest that troops in places like Atbara (a former stronghold of the Sudanese working class) have already removed their uniforms and joined in the demonstrations. This is not quite the decisive conduct of their predecessors but has increased the sense of unease amongst the al-Bashir and his ruling class cronies.
Already 22 parties including the influential Umma party, which was part of the government of al-Bashir, have called for his (peaceful, of course) replacement. The rats are deserting a sinking ship. There are good reasons for this.
An Economic Basket Case…
In a globally stagnant capitalist world peripheral zones like Sudan suffer the most. Sudan ranks 174th on the wealth list, making it one of the poorest countries in the world. However there are local factors which have kicked in to make matters worse. In 2005 South Sudan, after years of war, finally set up as a separate state taking with it two thirds of Sudan’s main export commodity, oil. Although Sudan has managed to recoup some of this (since it charges a high price for South Sudan’s oil exports through its Red Sea ports) GDP fell by over 10%, and helped produce a great hole in state finances. Sudan already has debts of over $56 billion whilst, according to Reuters, the central bank only has $1.1 billion in reserves or about enough to pay for about seven weeks of imports. The government solution has been to print money to keep functioning. As a consequence, the value of the Sudan pound has fallen and inflation has now reached 70%. 46.5% of the population live below the poverty line (living on less than $1.90 a day3). In some regions like Northern Darfur that figure climbs to two thirds of the population.
…Proliferating Barbarism
Sudan’s designation as a “state sponsor of terrorism” with a war criminal indicted for “genocide” and “crimes against humanity” at its head has made it difficult to get international investors to commit to any project. The atrocities committed in the war in Darfur have continued to haunt the regime. Here 300,000 were killed and 1.2 million displaced as the Government wreaked revenge on a region where an independence movement had arisen. Again, the bulk of the rapes and murders were largely carried out by the so-called Rapid Support Force or Janjaweed militia.4
Despite this, imperialist games elsewhere have allowed al-Bashir to undergo something of a rehabilitation with the US. The Washington Post informs us that:
“In September 2017, Sudan was quietly dropped from the United States’ travel ban list. A few days later, the Trump administration partially lifted sanctions in place for almost 20 years. Analysts have linked these developments to the Sudanese government’s support of the U.S.-backed, Saudi-led war in Yemen. In return for sending thousands of Sudanese soldiers to provide the kind of “boots on the ground engagement” that the Saudis and Emiratis are unwilling to risk themselves, Persian _Gulf diplomats stepped up their lobbying efforts on Sudan’s behalf in Washington”5
According to David D Kirkpatrick of the New York Times6, Sudan has sent as many as 14,000 soldiers to Yemen.7Grotesquely these include both members of the Janjaweed militia and their victims. These are the child soldiers from Darfur who are there because the civil war robbed their families of their livelihoods. Now they serve under the Janjaweed. Kirkpatrick cites the case of one Darfuri boy who was recruited by the Saudis for $10,000 at age 14. The story of Sudan’s unacknowledged involvement in Yemen first came to light in September 2017 when a Janjaweed General, Mohammad Hamdan Daqlu, inadvertently admitted that 412 Sudanese had been killed there.8Given that over 60% of Sudan’s exports end up in Saudi Arabia or the UAE, and that the Gulf States are alleged to have given Sudan a $2 billion loan in 2015, it is perhaps not surprising that this alliance of convenience on both sides has developed. What the whole sordid episode shows is that any idea of outside pressure on the war criminal al-Bashir in the current crisis can be forgotten. Already al-Sisi, the Egyptian dictator, who might fear the same fate one day has openly announced his support for the al-Bashir regime (a further 15% of Sudan’s exports go to Egypt).
The Social Base of the Uprising
So where does this leave the balance of forces in the current struggle? It is perhaps no accident that the current crisis was sparked off in the North Eastern Nile town of Atbara. Nicknamed “The City of Steel and Fire” by workers, it was the main railway centre in the country. This was the town of the stronghold of the Sudanese working class and “became one of the most dynamic and militant labor movements in Africa and the Middle East”.9Led by the railway workers’ union and the Sudanese Communist Party (at its height – when it was the largest Communist Party in Africa – it was a Stalinist offshoot but today it is a smaller nationalist outfit which thinks it can somehow represent “socialism” in a “democratic” government!), the workers of Atbara were not only in the vanguard of the struggle against colonialism but also in bringing down Abboud in 1964 and Nimeiri in 1985.
However, the ongoing global crisis of capitalist accumulation has undermined working class social cohesion in the Sudan, just as it has done throughout the main centres of capitalism.
“The economic mainstay of many towns outside Khartoum has been destroyed. The suffocation of the railway industry, for example, spelled the death of Atbara—Sudan’s first real industrial city from the turn of the 20th century in northeast River Nile state.”10
As a result, although Atbara remains a working class centre it is numerically much diminished given this neglect of investment in the railways. Alongside economic decline al-Bashir has, over the years, destroyed most of the organisational bases of any movements that might have formed the focus of opposition. This may not be entirely a bad thing as
“the absence of formal trade unions and independent local governing structures did not prevent people from forming alternative grass-roots structures for mobilizing against political repression. Youth movements and independent farmer and worker formations have multiplied over the last decade as people lost faith in established opposition parties and politics. Most notably, from 2012 to 2014, students and the urban poor held a variety of creative protests before being repressed by the regime.”11
But this “urban poor” has a broad and mixed character. Two million of them live on the outskirts of Khartoum where over a fifth of the population is concentrated. Their numbers have swollen in the last two decades with the influx of refugees from the conflicts in the South and in Darfur. They are divided in many ways by tribe, race and religion which tends to undermine any sense of class solidarity. After the previous revolts the united opposition would end up fighting each other for the tribal or clientelist leader that they thought represented their grouping.
However, today Sudan faces the same (if not more blatant) disparities, between the ever more bloated rich and the desperately poor masses, as in every other state in the world. It is apparent that even the once prosperous middle class, who gave parts of Khartoum the air of being like any other functioning city, have suffered. Many have lost their livelihoods or left to find a better life elsewhere. It is no surprise therefore that today the main organisers of the demonstrations are the professional associations of teachers, doctors and engineers. Once much respected in Sudanese society, these groups have seen a massive decline in their living standards over the last two decades. Doctors, for example now earn as little as $30 a month.12
At the same time
"Nearly all Sudan’s wealth and assets are now located in Khartoum and Port Sudan, and these have been long since acquired by a narrow set of political elites, regime loyalists, and their business allies."13
Three quarters of the state budget goes to the military whilst those who have access to state contracts have a source of corrupt finance. This elite class are the ones who travel abroad, engage in conspicuous luxury consumption ($2 billion worth of cosmetics are imported by them each year, and the wedding industry now puts on massive extravagant displays lasting for days at a time). As one Sudanese journalist put it, as al-Bashir’s “cronies whizz around the city in their trademark white Land Cruisers, people have grown tired of a regime that cannot be bothered to hide its corruption.”14However, the money currently flowing to the security forces ensures the loyalty of those killing protestors on the streets.
The Next Bloodbath?
Sudan today, like so many places, is at an impasse. In Africa it is not alone. Since the global financial speculative bubble burst in 2008, the number of riots and conflicts in Africa has gone from around 300 a year to nearly 4000.15Sudan's economy is close to collapse and the population have reached that point of desperation in which they see they have no option but to demand “the fall of the regime”. But if the social movement against the regime is determined in its goal, al-Bashir is equally unable to back down. More blood will be shed before this situation is played out, unless there is an internal coup within the ruling party.
It is known to be divided, but so far there is no evidence that anyone has made any move to get rid of their leader. Al-Bashir thinks he can ride out the storm (and has the added incentive to hang on since, if he is deposed, the International Criminal Court will be awaiting his handover). He appears to think that a combination of repression (he has called on the riot police to “exact penance” on demonstrators), the usual denunciation of the protestors as the tools of foreign powers, and a few concessions will be enough to placate the wrath of the population. He thinks the crisis can be resolved by simply reintroducing targeted subsidies, increasing civil servant pay, stabilising the Sudanese pound, or just sacking this or that minister as a scapegoat.16As long as he has the loyalty of the army, and keeps control of the National Intelligence Service, he has a good chance of facing down yet another challenge to his 29 year rule.
And even if the protestors pull off the downfall of al-Bashir what will they achieve? The liberal press in the West are once again talking up the prospects of democracy in the Sudan but as the experience of the rest of Africa shows mere political change will not solve the implacable economic crisis. What we are seeing in Sudan is a movement (not unlike the gilets jaunes in France, but in even more desperate economic circumstances) which points the finger at a global capitalist system which is bankrupt. It cannot satisfy the basic needs of the many whilst the wealth of the few continues to expand obscenely. These movements also demonstrate that they no longer have faith in a political process which works only for the capitalist class.
However, in themselves they can only pose these questions – they cannot answer them. Indeed, the answer cannot be found in this or that country or with the undifferentiated mass of the “the people”. There is only one class which carries within it the seeds of a programme based on previous collective experience which is the antithesis of capitalism and that is the world working class. Only a conscious working class, the majority of the world’s population, acting in concert can pose the alternative to the increasing misery which is the daily lot of so many. Not only will we abolish the profits system which is based on the exploitation of billions of workers across the globe, not only will we control production and revolutionise it by producing for the real needs of human beings but we will also abolish the capitalist state, including its military apparatus and replace it with an internationally coordinated system of workers councils which will bring the benefits of the worlds wealth to all. In Sudan, as elsewhere, the question of socialism or barbarism has been posed. Sooner or later the world working class will have to give its response.
Jock7 January 2019
Scheveningen
5 years 7 months ago
In reply toWelcomebylibcom.org

It is no surprise therefore that today the main organisers of the demonstrations are the professional associations of teachers, doctors and engineers. Once much respected in Sudanese society, these groups have seen a massive decline in their living standards over the last two decades.
While reading Reddebrek's library pieces on the previous movements against ruling military government (1964, 1985) I noticed that professionals were featured in both. Were they close to the Communist Party? I know that many urban professionals in Iraq were close to the CP as they supported its modernizing policies (or perhaps they were a preferential recruitment target for the party), so it wouldn't surprise me if the same happened in Sudan. If that's the case, they must've been at odds with the government for most of the country's independent history.

Title: No title found
' . $twentytwentyone_next_label . $twentytwentyone_next . '
%title
' . $twentytwentyone_prev . $twentytwentyone_previous_label . '
%title

Title: La Colmena: The U.S. Is on the Side of Terrorists and War Criminals in Yemen
“La sabiduría de la vida consiste en la eliminación de lo no esencial. En reducir los problemas de la filosofía a unos pocos solamente: el goce del hogar, de la vida, de la naturaleza, de la cultura”. 
Lin Yutang

Title: Only 657 Sudanese troops are in Yemen: military spokesperson - Sudan Tribune
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
Sudan has dispatched thousands of troops to Yemen since 2015 (Sky News Arabia photo)January 14, 2020 (KHARTOUM) – Sudan has reduced its troops deployed in Yemen to over six hundreds soldiers, said Brig. Gen. Jamal Adam the spokesperson of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) on Tuesday.
“A minor group of 657 Sudanese military personnel remained in Yemen, Adam told the Turkish Anadolu Agency.
“Even the command of the Sudanese forces [in Yemen] returned to Khartoum,” he further said.
Last December, Prime Minister Abdallah Hamdok stated that there were some five thousand troops in Yemen.
“The number of troops had reached 15,000 soldiers and now it has drawn down to 5000,” he said after his return from Washington.
In October 2019, a member of the Sovereign Council and RSF General Commander Mohamed Hamdan Daglo (Hemetti) told a joint meeting held with the ruling Forces for Freedom and Change (FFC) that the army had withdrawn 10,000 troops from Yemen.
In 2015, Sudan’s ousted President Omer al-Bashir dispatched thousands of ground troops and several fighter jets fighting to Yemen as part of the Saudi-led coalition to fight Iran-backed Houthi rebels.
The decision was criticized by the opposition but after the revolution, the army leadership maintained the troops and pledged to reduce it gradually in agreement with Saudi Arabia.
Also, the peace negotiations with the Houthi encouraged the Saudi-led coalition to drop down its operations in Yemen.
(ST)
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Copyright @ 2024 | Sudan Tribune. All rights reserved.

Title: Sudanese journalist beaten in Omdurman home during protest - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Journalist Difaf Mousa of El Tayyar newspaper reported that during the peaceful procession on Wednesday, a group of armed men, some dressed in civilian clothes and one wearing military uniform, stormed her house El Morada in Omdurman, beat her and terrified her children.
Journalist Difaf Mousa ofEl Tayyarnewspaper reported that during the peaceful procession on Wednesday, a group of armed men, some dressed in civilian clothes and one wearing military uniform, stormed her house El Morada in Omdurman, beat her and terrified her children.
Mousa told Radio Dabanga that a group of demonstrators who being chased by men driving a Land Cruiser without licence plates, took refuge in her house. The armed men first threatened to fire tear gas into her home, then opened the door and forcibly searched the house, beat her severely, and abused her verbally.
Mousa said that the security force official told her that “the country is governed by the law of the jungle”. She explained that she and her children have been in a state of panic since the armed group broke into their house. She wondered what forces they represented as the security services have kept denying breaking into houses.
On Tuesday, the National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS) banned the issuing ofEl Jareedanewspaper. During pre-publication censorship, the NISS demanded the deletion of the front page and the news of the arrests and detentions, but the newspaper refused to comply with security requirements, so it was forced not to print.
The security apparatus also on Tuesday confiscated all the print copies of the newspaperEl Intibaha. They banned columnist Shamayel El Nour from publishing atEl Tayyarnewspaper and forced the newspaper to remove the column name permanently from the last page.
Yesterday, the Sudanese Journalists Network appealed in a statement to launch a campaign of material and moral support forEl Jareedanewspaper, in coordination with the administration of the newspaper to survive its ordeal.
Journalists Ageel Naeem, Kamal Karrar, Gurashi Awad, Ismail Bilal, and Omar Juma are still being held in a NISS detention centre.
Sit-in
The NISS detained 28 journalists for several hours ahead of a plannedsit-in to protest the pre-publication censorship on Sudanese newspaperson Monday.
The sit-in was planned to be held in front of the headquarters of the security department in El Mak Nimir Street in downtown Khartoum. The crowd would present a memorandum against the security service’s repeated confiscation and prevention of publication ofEl JareedaandEl Baathnewspapers.
The NISS demands newspapers remove any news articles about the ongoing demonstrations in Sudan, as well as any columns about the events that have been taking place in Khartoum, cities and towns across Sudan in the past four weeks.
Reporters Without Borders (RSF)
Reacting to the new arrests, International press freedom watchdog Reporters Without Borders (RSF) has reiterated its alarm about the clampdown on Sudan’s media and persecution of media personnel.
“We unreservedly condemn these new arrests, the latest escalation in the government’s harassment of media outlets and journalists who try to cover the ongoing events in their country,” said Arnaud Froger, the head of RSF’s Africa desk. “The policy of systematically confiscating newspapers and arbitrarily arresting reporters is reaching alarming levels. This persecution of journalists and clampdown on news coverage must stop.”
Since the protests began on 19 December, RSF has registered more than 90 press freedom violations, including 62 arrests and 21 seizures of newspapers by the NISS.El Jareedaissues have been confiscated 11 times.
Sudan is ranked 174th out of 180 countries inRSF’s 2018 World Press Freedom Index.

Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: No title found
' . $twentytwentyone_next_label . $twentytwentyone_next . '
%title
' . $twentytwentyone_prev . $twentytwentyone_previous_label . '
%title

Title: Kindersoldaten im Jemen: Kanonenfutter für die Front / Saudi-Arabien setzt sudanesische Kinder ein
Kupfer wird oft als „das Gold der Energiewende“ bezeichnet, weil es aufgrund seiner hervorragenden elektrischen Leitfähigkeit eine zentrale Rolle in vielen Technologien spielt, die für nachhaltige Energiesysteme entscheidend sind. Experten gehen aufgrund der Angebotsknappheit von einem Superzyklus aus.
Korrektur als Einstiegschance
Nach Höchstständen im Mai korrigierte das rote Metall stark. Die Abwärtsspirale verstärkte sich in den vergangenen Tagen aufgrund schwacher Konjunkturdaten aus den USA und China. Langfristig könnte sich die aktuell laufende Korrektur als exzellente Einstiegsmöglichkeit herausstellen.
3 Kupferaktien mit hohem Potential
Im neuen, kostenlosen Spezialreport stellen wir drei aussichtsreiche Unternehmen vor, die bei einem weiteren Anstieg überproportional profitieren könnten.
Handeln Sie jetzt und sichern Sie sich Ihren kostenfreien Report!

Title: Omar Al Bashir, the stick-wielding autocrat strangling dissent in Sudan | The National

22 January, 2019
During a 29-year reign that has seen the Sudanese president preside over devastating wars, economic ruin and the secession of the south, Omar Al Bashir has also achieved the dubious distinction of becoming the first sitting head of state to be indicted for genocide.
Throughout it all, the 75-year old former military leader has insisted that he is a force for stability in Sudan. Now as the longest protests of his rule demand he step down, his single-minded focus on clinging to power suggests he may only be removed in the same way he came in – by force.
Mr Al Bashir was born in 1944 to a family farming near the banks of the Nile in Hosh Bannaga. The family left the agrarian village when he was young, travelling 200 kilometres south to settle in the capital, Khartoum.
He joined the the army at 16, studying at a military college in Cairo before fighting with the Egyptian military in the 1973 October war against Israel.
Mr Al Bashir served as the Sudanese military attache in the UAE in 1975. Returning home, he rose through the ranks to play a leading role in fighting against South Sudanese rebels.
In 1989, he led the bloodless coup that overthrew the elected government. At a rally afterwards, brandishing a Quran and a Kalashnikov rifle, he swore that “anyone who betrays the nation does not deserve the honour of living”.
Supported by hardliner Hasan Al Turabi, he increasingly Islamised the country, which deepened division with the Christian south. The new military government outlawed political parties and carried out a purge, imprisoning and executing opponents.
After he appointed himself president in 1993, Mr Al Bashir assumed all executive and legislative powers. He also embraced the image of an ultra-conservative leader, harbouring former Al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in 1991, which led to the US listing Sudan as a state sponsor of terror.
The stick-wielding Mr Al Bashir, who still favours military uniforms when not wearing a white turban and robe, has been re-elected three times in suspect ballots. No candidate stood against him in 1996 and in 2000 he was re-elected after ousting former ally Turabi in a palace coup a year earlier. Elections in 2010 were marred by vote rigging, corruption and intimidation.
_______________
Read more:
Sudan's professionals lead calls for Omar Al Bashir to step down
Sudan's doctors say they are state targets in anti-Bashir protests
Sudan women join protests to fight for their rights
_______________
A transitional government from 2005 to 2010 brought an end to the civil war with the south but from 2003 a new civil war began in Darfur. To quell the uprising, Mr Al Bashir enlisted Arab Janjaweed militiamen, who carried out widespread atrocities against civilians. In 2009, the International Criminal Court issued an arrest warrant for Mr Al Bashir for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Darfur.
Secession of the south in 2011 led to the loss of three quarters of Sudan’s oil revenue. This along with corruption and economic mismanagement led to the unrest behind current protests, which began in December following bread price hikes.
As with previous short-lived protests in 2011 and 2014, Mr Al Bashir has refused calls to step down, saying he will only leave if voted out of office in 2020.
Engine:2.3-litre, turbo four-cylinder
Transmission:10-speed auto
Power:300hp
Torque:420Nm
Price:Dh189,900
On sale:now
Prince Khaled bin Alwaleed bin Talal's new plant-based menu will launch at Four Seasons hotels in Dubai this November. A desire to cater to people looking for clean, healthy meals beyond green salad is what inspired Prince Khaled and American celebrity chef Matthew Kenney to createFolia. The word means "from the leaves" in Latin, and the exclusive menu offers fine plant-based cuisine across Four Seasons properties in Los Angeles, Bahrain and, soon, Dubai.
Kenney specialises in vegan cuisine and is the founder of Plant Food + Wine and 20 other restaurants worldwide. "I’ve always appreciated Matthew’s work," says the Saudi royal. "He has a singular culinary talent and his approach to plant-based dining is prescient and unrivalled. I was a fan of his long before we established our professional relationship."
Folia first launched at The Four Seasons Hotel Los Angeles at Beverly Hills in July 2018. It is available at the poolside Cabana Restaurant and for in-room dining across the property, as well as in its private event space. The food is vibrant and colourful, full of fresh dishes such as the hearts of palm ceviche with California fruit, vegetables and edible flowers; green hearb tacos filled with roasted squash and king oyster barbacoa; and a savoury coconut cream pie with macadamia crust.
In March 2019, the Folia menu reached Gulf shores, as it was introduced at the Four Seasons Hotel Bahrain Bay, where it is served at the Bay View Lounge. Next, on Tuesday, November 1 – also known as World Vegan Day – it will come to the UAE, to the Four Seasons Resort Dubai at Jumeirah Beach and the Four Seasons DIFC, both properties Prince Khaled has spent "considerable time at and love".
There are also plans to take Folia to several more locations throughout the Middle East and Europe.
While health-conscious diners will be attracted to the concept, Prince Khaled is careful to stress Folia is "not meant for a specific subset of customers. It is meant for everyone who wants a culinary experience without the negative impact that eating out so often comes with."
The Abu Dhabi Supreme Petroleum Council was established in 1988 and is the highest governing body in Abu Dhabi’s oil and gas industry. The council formulates, oversees and executes the emirate’s petroleum-related policies. It also approves the allocation of capital spending across state-owned Adnoc’s upstream, downstream and midstream operations and functions as the company’s board of directors. The SPC’s mandate is also required for auctioning oil and gas concessions in Abu Dhabi and for awarding blocks to international oil companies. The council is chaired by Sheikh Khalifa, the President and Ruler of Abu Dhabi while Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed, Abu Dhabi’s Crown Prince and Deputy Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, is the vice chairman.
Engine:Two-litre four-cylinder turboPower:235hpTorque:350NmTransmission:Nine-speed automaticPrice:From Dh167,500 ($45,000)On sale:Now
Powertrain:Single electric motorPower:201hpTorque:310NmTransmission:Single-speed autoBattery:53kWh lithium-ion battery pack (GS base model); 70kWh battery pack (GF)Touring range:350km (GS); 480km (GF)Price:From Dh129,900 (GS); Dh149,000 (GF)On sale:Now
Company name:Klipit
Started:2022
Founders:Venkat Reddy, Mohammed Al Bulooki, Bilal Merchant, Asif Ahmed, Ovais Merchant
Based:Dubai, UAE
Industry:Digital receipts, finance, blockchain
Funding:$4 million
Investors:Privately/self-funded
UAE coins
Dh5 note
Dh10 note
Dh20 note
Dh50 note
Director:Vikas BahlStarring:Ajay Devgn, R. Madhavan, Jyothika, Janaki BodiwalaRating:3/5
Elena Rybakina (Kazakhstan)Ons Jabeur (Tunisia)Maria Sakkari (Greece)Barbora Krejčíková (Czech Republic)Beatriz Haddad Maia (Brazil)Jeļena Ostapenko (Latvia)Liudmila SamsonovaDaria KasatkinaVeronika KudermetovaCaroline Garcia (France)Magda Linette (Poland)Sorana Cîrstea (Romania)Anastasia PotapovaAnhelina Kalinina (Ukraine)Jasmine Paolini (Italy)Emma Navarro (USA)Lesia Tsurenko (Ukraine)Emma Raducanu (Great Britain) – wildcard
Japan v QatarFriday, 6pmZayed Sports City Stadium, Abu Dhabi
Bhuvan BamInstagramfollowers: 16.1 millionBhuvan Bam is a 29-year-old comedian and actor from Delhi, who started out with YouTube channel, “BB Ki Vines” in 2015, which propelled the social media star into the limelight and made him sought-after among brands.Kusha KapilaInstagramfollowers: 3.1 millionKusha Kapila is a fashion editor and actress, who has collaborated with brands including Google. She focuses on sharing light-hearted content and insights into her life as a rising celebrity.Diipa KhoslaInstagramfollowers: 1.8 millionDiipa Khosla started out as a social media manager before branching out to become one of India's biggest fashion influencers, with collaborations including MAC Cosmetics.Komal PandeyInstagramfollowers: 1.8 millionKomal Pandey is a fashion influencer who has partnered with more than 100 brands, including Olay and smartphone brand Vivo India.Nikhil SharmaInstagramfollowers: 1.4 millionNikhil Sharma from Mumbai began his online career through vlogs about his motorcycle trips. He has become a lifestyle influencer and has created his own clothing line.Source: Hireinfluence, various
Company name:FassetStarted:2019Founders:Mohammad Raafi Hossain, Daniel AhmedBased:DubaiSector:FinTechInitial investment:$2.45 millionCurrent number of staff:86Investment stage:Pre-series BInvestors:Investcorp, Liberty City Ventures, Fatima Gobi Ventures, Primal Capital, Wealthwell Ventures, FHS Capital, VN2 Capital, local family offices
Job: Fitness entrepreneur, body-builder and trainer
Favourite superhero: Batman
Favourite quote: We must become the change we want to see, by Mahatma Gandhi.
Favourite car: Lamborghini
Who are the bidoon?
Company name:RevibeStarted:2022Founders:Hamza Iraqui and Abdessamad Ben ZakourBased:UAEIndustry:Refurbished electronicsFunds raised so far:$10mInvestors:Flat6Labs, Resonance and various others
Name:Haltia.aiStarted:2023Co-founders:Arto Bendiken and Talal ThabetBased:Dubai, UAEIndustry:AINumber of employees:41Funding:About $1.7 millionInvestors:Self, family and friends
How our nine-month-old has made the Canadian winter a little bit warmer for us
Canadians rallying around a targeted Syrian restaurant is telling about attitudes to migrants
Don Cherry and the real issue with being one of 'you people'
Engine:1.5-litre 4-cylinder petrol
Power:154bhp
Torque:250Nm
Transmission:7-speed automatic with 8-speed sports option
Price:From Dh79,600
On sale:Now
Name:RahaStarted:2022Based:Kuwait/SaudiIndustry:Tech LogisticsFunding:$14 millionInvestors:Soor Capital, eWTP Arabia Capital, Aujan Enterprises, Nox Management, Cedar Mundi VenturesNumber of employees:166
Kesari
Rating: 2.5/5 starsProduced by: Dharma Productions, Azure EntertainmentDirected by: Anubhav SinghCast: Akshay Kumar, Parineeti Chopra
Huroob Ezterari
Director: Ahmed Moussa
Starring: Ahmed El Sakka, Amir Karara, Ghada Adel and Moustafa Mohammed
Three stars
Name:+ThndrStarted:+2019Co-founders:+Ahmad+Hammouda+and+Seif+AmrSector:+FinTechHeadquarters:+EgyptUAE+base:+Hub71,+Abu+DhabiCurrent+number+of+staff:+More+than+150Funds+raised:+$22+million+
Graphene is extracted from graphite and is made up of pure carbon.
It is 200 times more resistant than steel and five times lighter than aluminum.
It conducts electricity better than any other material at room temperature.
It is thought that graphene could boost the useful life of batteries by 10 per cent.
Graphene can also detect cancer cells in the early stages of the disease.
The material was first discovered when Andre Geim and Konstantin Novoselov were 'playing' with graphite at the University of Manchester in 2004.
Starring:Cate Blanchett, Kevin Hart, Jamie Lee Curtis
Director:Eli Roth
Rating:0/5
Dr Nawal Al-Hosany:Why more women should be on the frontlines of climate action
Samar Elmnhrawy:How companies in the Middle East can catch up on gender equality
The National Editorial:Is there much to celebrate on International Women's Day 2021?
Justin Thomas:Challenge the notion that 'men are from Mars, women are from Venus'
Engine:+1.5-litre+turbo
Power:+181hp
Torque:+230Nm
Transmission:+6-speed+automatic
Starting+price:+Dh79,000
On+sale:+Now
Engine:Long-range dual motor with 400V batteryPower:360kW / 483bhpTorque:840NmTransmission:Single-speed automaticMax touring range:628km0-100km/h:4.7secTop speed:210kphPrice:From Dh360,000On sale:September
Starring:Rose, Jisoo, Jennie, Lisa
Directors:Min Geun, Oh Yoon-Dong
Rating:3/5
Developer:Sucker Punch ProductionsPublisher:Sony Computer EntertainmentConsole:PlayStation 2 to 5Rating:5/5
This article is part of a guide on where to live in the UAE. Our reporters will profile some of the country’s most desirable districts, provide an estimate of rental prices and introduce you to some of the residents who call each area home.
Name:Hassan Mohsen Elhais
Position:legal consultant with Al Rowaad Advocates and Legal Consultants.
Starring:Ajay Devgn, Tabu, Shantanu Maheshwari, Jimmy Shergill, Saiee Manjrekar
Director:Neeraj Pandey
Rating:2.5/5
Started: December 2016Founder: Ibrahim KamalmazBased: UAESector: Finance / legalSize: 3 employees, pre-revenueStage: Early stageInvestors: Founder's friends and Family
Name:Direct Debit SystemStarted:Sept 2017Based:UAE with a subsidiary in the UKIndustry:FinTechFunding:UndisclosedInvestors:Elaine JonesNumber of employees:8
Bryant Harris:What Joe Biden did during his first week as US President
Kareem Shaheen:Omar Alghabra outshines the racists who malign him
Kareem Shaheen:Canada is failing those who bear its greatest Covid-19 burdens
Starring:Bruce Willis, Toni Collette, Hayley Joel Osment
Director:M. Night Shyamalan
Rating:5/5
Company name:AlmouneerStarted:2017Founders:Dr Noha Khater and Rania KadryBased:EgyptNumber of staff:120Investment:Bootstrapped, with support from Insead and Egyptian government, seed round of$3.6 million led by Global Ventures
Engine:2.0-litre 4-cyl
Power:153hp at 6,000rpm
Torque:200Nm at 4,000rpm
Transmission:6-speed auto
Price:Dh99,000
On sale:now
Name: Abeer Al Shahi
Emirate: Sharjah – Khor Fakkan
Education: Master’s degree in special education, preparing for a PhD in philosophy.
Favourite activities: Bungee jumping
Favourite quote: “My people and I will not settle for anything less than first place” – Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid.
Favourite hobby: taking his rescue dog, Sally, for long walks.
Favourite book: anything by Stephen King, although he said the films rarely match the quality of the books
Favourite film: The Shawshank Redemption stands out as his favourite movie, a classic King novella
Favourite music: “I have a wide and varied music taste, so it would be unfair to pick a single song from blues to rock as a favourite"
The Laughing Apple
Yusuf/Cat Stevens
(Verve Decca Crossover)
The Punishment of LuxuryOMD100% Records
Dr Nawal Al-Hosany:Why more women should be on the frontlines of climate action
Shelina Janmohamed:Why shouldn't a spouse be compensated fairly for housework?
Samar Elmnhrawy:How companies in the Middle East can catch up on gender equality
The National Editorial:Is there much to celebrate on International Women's Day 2021?
Directed by:Tom Beard
Narrated by: Sir David Attenborough
Stars: 4

Title: Soudan. La révolte du pain fait vaciller Omar El Béchir - L'Humanité
En ce moment
Je soutiens l’Humanité.
Les manifestations contre la vie chère ont pris un tour politique. Lâché par ses alliés, le dictateur soudanais joue, avec la répression, sa dernière carte pour se maintenir au pouvoir.
Offrir
«Ça fait longtemps qu’on me traite de dictateur. » Il y a quatre ans, quelques semaines avant sa « réélection » à la tête du Soudan avec 94,5 % des suffrages, Omar El Béchir faisait dans la crânerie du satrape sûr de tenir le pouvoir à vie. Le voilà qui vacille : le brasier social allumé mi-décembre par le triplement du prix du pain menace désormais d’emporter le régime islamo-militaire qu’il a installé il y a trente ans. Lundi, dans un communiqué conjoint rendu public au cours d’une conférence de presse à Khartoum, vingt-deux partis ont appelé à l’établissement d’un « nouveau régime dans le pays, qui puisse gagner la confiance du peuple soudanais ». Le spectre politique de cette initiative en dit long sur la fragilisation du régime : il s’agit pour l’essentiel de formations islamistes, jusqu’ici alliées d’Omar El Béchir, qui quittent le navire. La fronde gagne même, semble-t-il, certains secteurs du parti du Congrès national au pouvoir, qui désignait, pourtant, en août dernier le dictateur comme candidat à sa propre succession en 2020, au mépris de la Constitution qui limite à deux le nombre de mandats présidentiels. Si le dictateur soudanais est ainsi lâché par les siens, c’est que le soulèvement populaire en cours désagrège son assise politique dans le pays.
Les mots-clés associés à cet article
Soudan. La révolte du pain fait vaciller Omar El Béchir
Articles les plus lus dans cette rubrique
Guerre en Ukraine : Pourquoi Vladimir Poutine lâche Koursk pour le Donbass
La Suisse en passe d’abandonner sa neutralité historique
Plan de paix, négociations, sommets… les débuts d’une voie diplomatique pour mettre fin à la guerre en Ukraine ?
à lire aussi
Macklemore annule son concert aux Émirats arabes unis en soutien au peuple soudanais
Culture et savoir
Publié le 28 août 2024
Ce qu’il faut savoir de l’alerte de MSF sur « le coût humain » de la guerre au Soudan
Monde
Publié le 22 juillet 2024
Ahmed Al-Sharif Ahmed Abosaham, l'activiste Soudanais arrêté par l'armée
Monde
Publié le 13 juin 2024
Vidéos les plus vues
Les images de l'opération militaire lancée par Israël à Jérusalem-Est et en Cisjordanie
Publié
          le Publié le 29 août 2024
Pourquoi Macron n'a pas voulu nommer Lucie Castets, selon Gaspard Gantzer
Publié
          le Publié le 28 août 2024
Sur les plateaux, l'offensive permanente contre le NFP continue
Publié
          le Publié le 28 août 2024
Du centre à l'extrême droite, les mêmes arguments contre le NFP
Publié
          le Publié le 27 août 2024
Pour le Medef, pas de changement de politique économique après les élections
Publié
          le Publié le 26 août 2024
Sans les communistes, pas de Libération populaire de Paris
Publié
          le Publié le 24 août 2024
Offrez un article
Avec un abonnement à l’Humanité, vous pouvezoffrir 10 articles chaque mois
Vous êtes abonné-e ?Connectez-vous
Offrir
Nos Rubriques
Nos thèmes
Nos services

Title: 
	Tolerance.ca® - Soudan: RSF dénonce une escalade de la répression contre la presse

Lire l'article complet

Title: الحوثي يعلق على مزاعم تجنيد السعودية لأطفال سودانيين في الحرب اليمنية - 04.01.2019, سبوتنيك عربي
وكتبالحوثيعبر حسابه الشخصي بموقع التواصل الاجتماعي "تويتر"، "تجنيد أطفال من دارفور السودان فضيحة تدلل على جريمة بشعه يرتكبها النظام السعودي".
وأضاف رئيس اللجنة الثورية العليا بجماعة "أنصار الله"، "تلك الجريمة تضاف إلى جرائمه البشعة الذي يحفل بها سجله الإجرامي بقتله لأطفال اليمن مرور بالمجازر المروعة والبشعة في الصالة الكبرى، وسنبان، والزيدية، وأطفال ضحيان، وغيرها بالإضافةإلى جريمةخاشقجي"، حسب قوله.
تجنيد أطفال من دارفور السودان فضيحة تدلل على جريمة بشعه يرتكبهاالنظام السعودي تضاف إلى جرائمه البشعه الذي يحفل بها سجله الإجرامي بقتله لأطفال اليمن مرور بالمجازر المروعة والبشعة في الصالة الكبرى،وسنبان،والزيدية،وأطفال ضحيان،وغيرها بالإضافةإلى جريمةخاشقجيلذلك أنصحهم بتغيير سلوكهمpic.twitter.com/WMMEF6xsAt
وقدم الحوثي مجموعة من النصائح للمملكة العربية السعودية، قائلا "لذلك أنصحهم بتغيير سلوكهم، وأنصحهم أيضا بالآتي، أطلقوا الناشطات المعتقلات، التزموا بتحقيق شفاف في قضية خاشقجي، لتحسين صورتكم لدى الغرب، وأوقفوا ابتزاز السودان لتجنيد أطفال من دارفور للعدوان على اليمن".
واختتم رئيس اللجنة الثورية العليا بجماعة "أنصار الله"، "حينها قد يحلو للنظام السعودي أن يعكس الهجمة الخارجية عليه في سجله الإنساني باستباق الهجوم على أبناء الشعب اليمني".
وانصحهم ايضابالاتياطلقوا الناشطات المعتقلاتالتزموا بتحقيق شفاف في قضيةخاشقجي لتحسين صورتكم لدى الغربواوقفواابتزاز السودان لتجنيد اطفال من قتلوا في دارفوربالعدوان ع اليمنوحينهاقديحلواللنظام السعودي ان يعكس الهجمةالخارجيةعليه في سجله الانساني بإستباق الهجوم ع ابناءالشعب اليمني
وكان المتحدث الرسمي لقوات الدعم السريع في السودان، العميد الصوارمي خالد سعد، نفى في تصريحات صحيفة، السبت 30 ديسمبر / كانون الأول، ما أوردته صحيفة "نيويورك تايمز" الأمريكية، حول إرسال قوات الدعم السريع أطفالا قصرا للمشاركة في حرب اليمن، وذلك وفقا لموقع "النيلين".
وقال الصوارمي، إن "قوات الدعم السريع بريئة كل البراءة من تجنيد الأطفال، مؤكدا أن كافة ملفاتها مفتوحة وظاهرة للعيان".
وكانت صحيفة "نيويورك تايمز" الأمريكية، قالت، في تقرير لها من الخرطوم، نشر أمس السبت، إن "السعودية استخدمت ثروتها النفطية الهائلة لتجنيد العشرات من الناجين اليائسين من الصراع في دارفور، غربي السودان، للقتال في اليمن، مؤكدة أن بين 20 إلى 40% منهم أطفال".
وأضافت أنه منذ أربع سنوات يقاتل في اليمن نحو 14 ألفا من أفراد مليشيات سودانية، قتل منهم المئات، مشيرة إلى أن معظم هؤلاء ينتمون إلى مليشيا الجنجويد، التي ألقي باللوم على أفرادها في ارتكاب فظائع بإقليم دارفور.
وجاء في التقرير، أن "بعض الأهالي التواقين للمال يعمدون إلى رشوة قادة المليشيات فيدارفور، وذلك للسماح لأبنائهم بالذهاب للقتال في اليمن"، مضيفة أن الجنود السودانيون يقاتلون لوحدهم في الحرب البرية بينما يكتفي الضباط الإماراتيون والسعوديون بإدارة المعركة عبر أجهزة اتصالات وتحديد الإحداثيات (الجي، بي، إس) من أماكن بعيدة وآمنة.

Title: أغلبية ضئيلة من قراء "إيلاف": تظاهرات السودان ستطيح نظام البشير
إيلاف من دبي: الاحتجاجات مستمرة في السودان، ورقعتها تتسع لتعم المدن والبلدات كافة، في حركة تستعيد من الذاكرة تظاهرات شعبية أطاحت نظام إبراهيم عبود في عام 1964، ونظام جعفر النميري في عام 1985، على الرغم من وجود اختلافات جذرية بين اليوم وأمس. في ضوء التطورات السودانية المتسارعة، سألت "إيلاف" قراءها: "هل تطيح تظاهرات السودان نظام الرئيس عمر البشير؟".شارك في الاستفتاء 724 قارئًا، أجاب 391 منهم بـ "نعم"، بنسبة 54 في المئة، بينما أجاب 333 قارئا&بـ "لا"، بنسبة 46 في المئة.وهج الربيع العربييبدو أن وهج الربيع العربي لم يخف تمامًا. على الرغم من أن هذا الربيع لقي طعنات كثيرة ومميتة في كل الدول التي هبت رياحه التغيرية فيها، فإن تفضيل أغلبية ولو ضئيلة من قراء "إيلاف" الإجابة بـ "نعم"، والقول إن التظاهرات ستطيح الرئيس السوداني عمر البشير، دليل واضح على أن القارئ العربي ما زال متعلقًا بحبال الهواء، ولو كانت آماله واهية.بدأ الحراك السوداني احتجاجًا على رفع أسعار المواد الأساسية، نتيجة وصول نسبة التضخم الاقتصادي إلى ٧٣ في المئة، ورزوح نصف سكان السودان تحت خط الفقر وفقًا لتقارير الأمم المتحدة والبنك الدولي، لكنه تغير وتسيّس سريعًا، ليرتفع الشعار الكبير "إرحل"... أي المطالبة برحيل عمر البشير، الشعار الذي يذكر بما تردد في مصر وتونس وسوريا واليمن وليبيا ابتداءًا من عام 2011. هذا الشعار رفع منسوب ثقة المعارضة السودانية بنفسها وبقدرتها على تحدي النظام أول مرة منذ عام 1990، بعدما امتنع الجيش عن قمع التظاهرات في مدن عدة، وعزفت ميليشيات الجنجويد عن المشاركة في التصدي للاحتجاجات.الأميركيون يقولون إن سقوط البشير مسألة وقت. فمدير برنامج بناء السلام في معهد دراسات حقوق الإنسان بجامعة كولومبيا دايفيد فيليبس دعا إلى إجراء تحقيق دولي في القمع الذي تنفذه قوات الأمن السودانية بحق المتظاهرين، وطالب الإدارة الأميركية إدانة حملة نظام الخرطوم ومليشياتها المستمرة ضد الأبرياء.وقال إن السودان عانى كثيرًا، والبشير مجرم حرب، ويجب أن يكون في قفص الاتهام وليس رئيسًا. واكد أنه في حال ارتفعت مطالب المحتجين السودانيين بإسقاط النظام السوداني، فالغرب سيقدم الدعم لهم.مسألة مستبعدةلكن، غير ذلك... الأدلة كلها تشير إلى أن سقوط البشير مسألة مستبعدة، إذ تتضافر عوامل خارجية وداخلية لترجيح الكفة لصالح النظام السوداني.كما يبدو، الخارج برمّته يدعم البشير. فالرئيس المصري عبد الفتاح السيسي أكد حرص مصر على أمن واستقرار السودان، ودولة الإمارات العربية المتحدة توفر الوقود لدعم نظام البشير، والنظام السوري يجاهر بدعم الرئيس العربي الوحيد الذي زار دمشق، وتركيا تؤكد كل يوم تمسكها بالاتفاقات الموقعة بين البلدين، ويبلغ عددها نحو عشرين اتفاقية تجارية واستثمارية، والسعودية تؤكد على لسان سفيرها في الخرطوم وقوفها الدائم إلى جانب حكومة السودان وشعبه، وروسيا ترسل قوات مرتزقة لمساعدة الأجهزة السودانية في مواجهة المتظاهرين، والصين تدعو الأمم المتحدة لمراجعة العقوبات الدولية على السودان تمهيدًا لإلغائها.أما داخليا، فيقول مراقبون إن النظام السوداني متماسك، فلا انشقاقات في الجيش لأسباب عدة، في مقدمها الخطاب الاحتجاجي نفسه الذي ينادي باجتثاث الإسلاميين ومعاقبتهم، بغض النظر عما إذا كانوا من أنصار النظام أو ممن انشقوا عنه؛ والخوف السوداني من المجهول والفوضى العارمة التي ستعم البلاد إذا سقط النظام من دون توافر بديل سريع يمسك بزمام الأمور، وإلا تكون السودان ليبيا أخرى.أما عن المعارضة السودانية فحدّث ولا حرج، فقواها المختلفة، لم تنجح إلى حدّ الآن في استثمار الاحتجاجات السلمية، وتحويلها إلى ثورة حقيقية تطيح بالنظام، وربما يعود ذلك لتركيبة المعارضة نفسها.كما غيرها من المعارضات العربية، تبدو المعارضة السودانية منقسمة ومتناحرة، حيث تدهورت العلاقة بين التحالفين المعارضين الأكبر في البلاد (تحالف نداء السودان) و(تحالف قوى الإجماع الوطني)، وذلك على الرغم من تعاونهم سابقا.ومن غير المرجح أن تتمكّن حركات المعارضة الرسمية السودانية، رغم كونها قديمة، من العمل معا بشكل فعال لجعل تلك الاحتجاجات "جبهة موحدة" ضد النظام الحالي، خاصة في ظل الاختلافات بينهما حول قضايا مثل الموقف من جنوب السودان، وحول كيفية مشاركة أحزاب المعارضة في الحكومة الحالية. ومع ذلك، لم تمنع تلك الاختلافات قادة المعارضة من دعم الاحتجاجات من حيث المبدأ.قصارى القول، يبدو أنّ الدعم الدولي والتماسك الداخلي وتشتت المعارضات، عوامل مهمة في بقاء البشير في السلطة إلى اليوم، ولو أتى ذلك على حساب السودانيين الذين يقمعهم نظامهم بالحديد والنار.سيناريوهات محتملةيرسم تقرير حديث لمجموعة الأزمات الدولية ثلاثة خيارات أمام الحكومة السودانية حيال التظاهرات العارمة، أولها الاستمرار في المواجهة الأمنية للمظاهرات، وفي هذه الحالة ستتبخر بصفة نهائية آمال البشير برفع بلده من قائمة الدول الداعمة للإرهاب، وإعفاء الديون المتراكمة، وجذب الاستثمارات والمنح.أما السيناريو الثاني فهو أن تؤدي المظاهرات إلى عزل البشير، بواسطة حزب المؤتمر الوطني الحاكم، أو الجيش، أو جهازه الأمني.ويبرز في هذا السيناريو المخيف، إسمان يتم تداولهما مؤخرا، الأول هو الجنرال "كمال عبد المعروف" رئيس الأركان، والذي ُيُعرف لدى السودانيين بدوره في تحرير مدينة "هجليج" الغنية بالنفط، والواقعة على الحدود الجنوبية، بعد أسابيع من احتلالها من قبل دولة جنوب السودان، وقد عُرف عنه كذلك انضباطه وسيطرته داخل الجيش، وقد كانت هناك شكوك حول دوره في محاولة الانقلاب الفاشلة التي حاول العميد "ود إبراهيم" القيام بها في نوفمبر 2012.أما المرشح الثاني للقيام بعزل البشير، فهو الجنرال صلاح قوش رئيس جهاز المخابرات الذي ترأس جهاز الأمن لخمس سنوات، قبل أن يطيح به البشير من منصبه ويلقيه في السجن على خلفية اتهامه بالضلوع في محاولة الانقلاب. لكنّ الرئيس البشير فاجأ الجميع في عام 2018 بإعادة قوش إلى رئاسة جهاز الأمن والمخابرات الوطني، والمتوقع أن ولاء قوش للرئيس لن يمنعه من المشاركة في أي محاولة انقلابية مستقبلية إذا ما توفرت الظروف المناسبة، بحسب محللين.أما السيناريو الثالث الذي تطرحه "الأزمات الدولية"، فهو أن يتنازل البشير عن السلطة ويتغير بذلك هرم الحكم، خصوصاً أن بعض حلفاء البشير وكبار المسؤولين&يشجعونه على التنحي وعدم الترشح في الانتخابات المزمع إجراؤها عام 2020. وهذا الاتجاه، بحسب التقرير، ربما يجد قبولاً من طرف المتظاهرين. لكن يظل&هذا السيناريو مستبعدا الآن، لأن البشير يخشى في حال تنازله عن السلطة أن تحمّله الحكومة الجديدة تبعات فترة حكمه، بما في ذلك تسليمه إلى المحكمة الجنائية الدولية.
إيلاف من دبي: الاحتجاجات مستمرة في السودان، ورقعتها تتسع لتعم المدن والبلدات كافة، في حركة تستعيد من الذاكرة تظاهرات شعبية أطاحت نظام إبراهيم عبود في عام 1964، ونظام جعفر النميري في عام 1985، على الرغم من وجود اختلافات جذرية بين اليوم وأمس. في ضوء التطورات السودانية المتسارعة، سألت "إيلاف" قراءها: "هل تطيح تظاهرات السودان نظام الرئيس عمر البشير؟".
شارك في الاستفتاء 724 قارئًا، أجاب 391 منهم بـ "نعم"، بنسبة 54 في المئة، بينما أجاب 333 قارئا&بـ "لا"، بنسبة 46 في المئة.
وهج الربيع العربي
يبدو أن وهج الربيع العربي لم يخف تمامًا. على الرغم من أن هذا الربيع لقي طعنات كثيرة ومميتة في كل الدول التي هبت رياحه التغيرية فيها، فإن تفضيل أغلبية ولو ضئيلة من قراء "إيلاف" الإجابة بـ "نعم"، والقول إن التظاهرات ستطيح الرئيس السوداني عمر البشير، دليل واضح على أن القارئ العربي ما زال متعلقًا بحبال الهواء، ولو كانت آماله واهية.
بدأ الحراك السوداني احتجاجًا على رفع أسعار المواد الأساسية، نتيجة وصول نسبة التضخم الاقتصادي إلى ٧٣ في المئة، ورزوح نصف سكان السودان تحت خط الفقر وفقًا لتقارير الأمم المتحدة والبنك الدولي، لكنه تغير وتسيّس سريعًا، ليرتفع الشعار الكبير "إرحل"... أي المطالبة برحيل عمر البشير، الشعار الذي يذكر بما تردد في مصر وتونس وسوريا واليمن وليبيا ابتداءًا من عام 2011. هذا الشعار رفع منسوب ثقة المعارضة السودانية بنفسها وبقدرتها على تحدي النظام أول مرة منذ عام 1990، بعدما امتنع الجيش عن قمع التظاهرات في مدن عدة، وعزفت ميليشيات الجنجويد عن المشاركة في التصدي للاحتجاجات.
الأميركيون يقولون إن سقوط البشير مسألة وقت. فمدير برنامج بناء السلام في معهد دراسات حقوق الإنسان بجامعة كولومبيا دايفيد فيليبس دعا إلى إجراء تحقيق دولي في القمع الذي تنفذه قوات الأمن السودانية بحق المتظاهرين، وطالب الإدارة الأميركية إدانة حملة نظام الخرطوم ومليشياتها المستمرة ضد الأبرياء.
وقال إن السودان عانى كثيرًا، والبشير مجرم حرب، ويجب أن يكون في قفص الاتهام وليس رئيسًا. واكد أنه في حال ارتفعت مطالب المحتجين السودانيين بإسقاط النظام السوداني، فالغرب سيقدم الدعم لهم.
مسألة مستبعدة
لكن، غير ذلك... الأدلة كلها تشير إلى أن سقوط البشير مسألة مستبعدة، إذ تتضافر عوامل خارجية وداخلية لترجيح الكفة لصالح النظام السوداني.
كما يبدو، الخارج برمّته يدعم البشير. فالرئيس المصري عبد الفتاح السيسي أكد حرص مصر على أمن واستقرار السودان، ودولة الإمارات العربية المتحدة توفر الوقود لدعم نظام البشير، والنظام السوري يجاهر بدعم الرئيس العربي الوحيد الذي زار دمشق، وتركيا تؤكد كل يوم تمسكها بالاتفاقات الموقعة بين البلدين، ويبلغ عددها نحو عشرين اتفاقية تجارية واستثمارية، والسعودية تؤكد على لسان سفيرها في الخرطوم وقوفها الدائم إلى جانب حكومة السودان وشعبه، وروسيا ترسل قوات مرتزقة لمساعدة الأجهزة السودانية في مواجهة المتظاهرين، والصين تدعو الأمم المتحدة لمراجعة العقوبات الدولية على السودان تمهيدًا لإلغائها.
أما داخليا، فيقول مراقبون إن النظام السوداني متماسك، فلا انشقاقات في الجيش لأسباب عدة، في مقدمها الخطاب الاحتجاجي نفسه الذي ينادي باجتثاث الإسلاميين ومعاقبتهم، بغض النظر عما إذا كانوا من أنصار النظام أو ممن انشقوا عنه؛ والخوف السوداني من المجهول والفوضى العارمة التي ستعم البلاد إذا سقط النظام من دون توافر بديل سريع يمسك بزمام الأمور، وإلا تكون السودان ليبيا أخرى.
أما عن المعارضة السودانية فحدّث ولا حرج، فقواها المختلفة، لم تنجح إلى حدّ الآن في استثمار الاحتجاجات السلمية، وتحويلها إلى ثورة حقيقية تطيح بالنظام، وربما يعود ذلك لتركيبة المعارضة نفسها.
كما غيرها من المعارضات العربية، تبدو المعارضة السودانية منقسمة ومتناحرة، حيث تدهورت العلاقة بين التحالفين المعارضين الأكبر في البلاد (تحالف نداء السودان) و(تحالف قوى الإجماع الوطني)، وذلك على الرغم من تعاونهم سابقا.
ومن غير المرجح أن تتمكّن حركات المعارضة الرسمية السودانية، رغم كونها قديمة، من العمل معا بشكل فعال لجعل تلك الاحتجاجات "جبهة موحدة" ضد النظام الحالي، خاصة في ظل الاختلافات بينهما حول قضايا مثل الموقف من جنوب السودان، وحول كيفية مشاركة أحزاب المعارضة في الحكومة الحالية. ومع ذلك، لم تمنع تلك الاختلافات قادة المعارضة من دعم الاحتجاجات من حيث المبدأ.
قصارى القول، يبدو أنّ الدعم الدولي والتماسك الداخلي وتشتت المعارضات، عوامل مهمة في بقاء البشير في السلطة إلى اليوم، ولو أتى ذلك على حساب السودانيين الذين يقمعهم نظامهم بالحديد والنار.
سيناريوهات محتملة
يرسم تقرير حديث لمجموعة الأزمات الدولية ثلاثة خيارات أمام الحكومة السودانية حيال التظاهرات العارمة، أولها الاستمرار في المواجهة الأمنية للمظاهرات، وفي هذه الحالة ستتبخر بصفة نهائية آمال البشير برفع بلده من قائمة الدول الداعمة للإرهاب، وإعفاء الديون المتراكمة، وجذب الاستثمارات والمنح.
أما السيناريو الثاني فهو أن تؤدي المظاهرات إلى عزل البشير، بواسطة حزب المؤتمر الوطني الحاكم، أو الجيش، أو جهازه الأمني.
ويبرز في هذا السيناريو المخيف، إسمان يتم تداولهما مؤخرا، الأول هو الجنرال "كمال عبد المعروف" رئيس الأركان، والذي ُيُعرف لدى السودانيين بدوره في تحرير مدينة "هجليج" الغنية بالنفط، والواقعة على الحدود الجنوبية، بعد أسابيع من احتلالها من قبل دولة جنوب السودان، وقد عُرف عنه كذلك انضباطه وسيطرته داخل الجيش، وقد كانت هناك شكوك حول دوره في محاولة الانقلاب الفاشلة التي حاول العميد "ود إبراهيم" القيام بها في نوفمبر 2012.
أما المرشح الثاني للقيام بعزل البشير، فهو الجنرال صلاح قوش رئيس جهاز المخابرات الذي ترأس جهاز الأمن لخمس سنوات، قبل أن يطيح به البشير من منصبه ويلقيه في السجن على خلفية اتهامه بالضلوع في محاولة الانقلاب. لكنّ الرئيس البشير فاجأ الجميع في عام 2018 بإعادة قوش إلى رئاسة جهاز الأمن والمخابرات الوطني، والمتوقع أن ولاء قوش للرئيس لن يمنعه من المشاركة في أي محاولة انقلابية مستقبلية إذا ما توفرت الظروف المناسبة، بحسب محللين.
أما السيناريو الثالث الذي تطرحه "الأزمات الدولية"، فهو أن يتنازل البشير عن السلطة ويتغير بذلك هرم الحكم، خصوصاً أن بعض حلفاء البشير وكبار المسؤولين&يشجعونه على التنحي وعدم الترشح في الانتخابات المزمع إجراؤها عام 2020. وهذا الاتجاه، بحسب التقرير، ربما يجد قبولاً من طرف المتظاهرين. لكن يظل&هذا السيناريو مستبعدا الآن، لأن البشير يخشى في حال تنازله عن السلطة أن تحمّله الحكومة الجديدة تبعات فترة حكمه، بما في ذلك تسليمه إلى المحكمة الجنائية الدولية.
إيلاف في السوشال ميديا:
تطبيقات إيلاف:
جميع الحقوق محفوظة © 2001 - 2024 إيلاف للنشر المحدودة Elaph Publishing Limited ©

Title: La inteligencia sudanesa intensifica el control sobre los medios
Otra información es posible









Title: “Overthrow the regime and prepare the future” - International Viewpoint - online socialist magazine
Sudan
Tuesday 22 January 2019

Tweet
Rashid Saeed Yagoub is a journalist and former militant of the Sudanese Communist Party. In exile in France since 1992, he is an active member of the networks supporting the ongoing popular uprising in Sudan.
Can you summarize the current situation in Sudan?
The military-Islamist regime of Al Bashir has been in power since 1989, that is almost 30 years, and is now facing the worst economic crisis in its history. The Sudanese pound has lost most of its value in 6 months. The price of bread has increased from 1 to 3 pounds. There is a general shortage of gasoline, and the country is cut off from the outside world.
The Sudanese government is on the verge of bankruptcy and is trying to secure regional allies. There is an economic partnership with China. The essential fact is that there is no more money, the country is on the verge of bankruptcy. Wealth exists, but it is monopolized by a clique linked to the regime.
What do you think about the current mobilizations?
The regime is facing unprecedented demonstrations. This movement exists in all major cities in the country with the exception of a few conurbations. There are broad social categories mobilized, the impoverished middle class is very present. Many women are participating. It should be noted that these demonstrations are peaceful. The government is responding with excessive use of force.
What are the demonstrators’ goals?
Mobilization began in response to measures that significantly increased the prices of basic necessities. From the first week, it was totally clear that this was a mainly political uprising, focused on demanding regime change. "The people want the regime to fall" is the unifying slogan. The professional associations, the Sudanese Professionals Association, which independently brings together official pro-regime trade unions, Sudanese professionals, doctors, engineers, etc...... has been the unifying group of this mobilization. The political parties opposed to the regime have also come together around a "Declaration for Freedom and Change". The axes are clear: the overthrow of the regime by peaceful means, and above all, organising the transition to a democratic regime with the right to free expression, freedom of assembly, and putting an end to the concentration of wealth in the hands of an Islamic-autocratic minority.
How can these goals be achieved?
The calls for general mobilization, initiated by and around the Sudanese Professionals Association, have made it possible to organize massive and regular mobilizations in the workplace and in the neighbourhoods. Spontaneous night demonstrations also take place and are really massive. The regime has blocked Facebook and Whats’App, but videos are still being broadcast daily by demonstrators, informing the media and the Sudanese diaspora around the world. Rallies in support of the popular uprising have been held in a significant number of countries, but it must be acknowledged that there has been relatively little media coverage and external support.
According to professional associations, the overthrow of the regime requires a massive uprising, a strategy of peaceful civil disobedience and the goal of a general strike. There is no support to be expected from the official trade unions controlled by the government, they are content to ask for the legitimacy of the regime to be respected and wait for the 2020 elections. Today these structures are out of the game. What is at the heart of the political debate is the immediate fall of the regime.
What is the position of the various Sudanese political parties?
The parties opposed to the regime have been participating in the uprising since the beginning, without being in the driving seat. They have joined the collective framework coordinated by the Association of Professionals. Today, there are three main blocs of parties with different strategies.
The Sudan Call is a group of a number of organizations that had participated in previous negotiations with the Sudanese government under the aegis of the African Union. It includes the Ummma party of former Prime Minister Sadek al-Mahdi, overthrown in 1989 by the Al-Bashir coup, Malik Agar’s SPLM North, Minni Minawi’s SLM, Gibril Ibrahim’s Justice and Equality Movement, the Sudanese Civil Society Confederation.
The Sudan Consensus Force is a group whose fundamental focus is the refusal in principle to negotiate with the regime. It includes the Sudanese Communist Party, Arab and Nasserian nationalist parties. It is a progressive group.
Les Unionistes, is a grouping around the Democratic Unionist Party, one of Sudan’s major institutional parties. To this must be added other structures that are, to get to the point, former splits of this Party. The Unionists act for the peaceful overthrow of the regime.
A word must also be said about the armed movements that play an important role in conflict areas. The Sudan Liberation Movement of Abdulwahid Al Nur in Darfur, and the Sudan People Liberation Movement in the Nuba Mountains region. These movements also categorically reject negotiations with the regime, and act independently of the political groupings mentioned above.
During the first days of the uprising, premises of the Al-Bashir National Congress Party were burnt down. The regime then accused the Sudan Liberation Movement of being at work, allegedly with the complicity of Israeli intelligence. Fortunately, this propaganda did not find a response. The response of the demonstrators was to refuse to let themselves be divided, the slogan on everyone’s lips was "we are all darfuris".
Can you describe the strategy of the regime?
I would say there are three main axes.
First, there is the assertion that the demonstrations are the work of foreigners, that parties and professional associations obey foreign embassies by which we should essentially understand the Western powers.
Then there is the assertion that demonstrations can lead the country to chaos, as in Syria and Yemen. The current regime prides itself on providing stability.
Finally, the regime is playing on racist discourse. Al-Bashir dares to say "If the regime falls, the darfuris will dominate the country".  That means the black populations in Sudan. Arab and Muslim culture is said to be under threat. There is a strong racial and ethnic component centred in this discourse. Fortunately, this kind of talk does not succeed in dividing and demobilizing. This type of propaganda no longer works.
A word must be said about the role of the army. With each major popular uprising in Sudan’s history, 1964 and 1985, the army has played an important role in the transition. Today, the army has been completely rebuilt by the regime, it is an ideological and ideologized army. The ex-Janjaweed militias affiliated to the regime, responsible for the genocide in Darfur, were integrated into the armed forces in 2017 under the name of Rapid Support Forces. The army is considered non-independent, composed of some ethnic groups in northern Sudan. The decisive factor is that today the army is no longer able to play a soft transition role within the regime as it once did.
What about the current mobilizations in support of the Sudanese people’s mobilization?
The Sudanese in exile have mobilized strongly, particularly in France. There have been civil society positions. Unfortunately, for the time being, this has been done in relative isolation from those most affected.
Western governments are taking prodent positions, they condemn violence against demonstrators, but no firm positions against the regime.
In conclusion, I would say that it is up to Sudanese abroad to meet with democratic organizations and political parties, to broaden support, to act to overthrow the regime and to prepare for the future.
If you like this article or have found it useful, please consider donating towards the work ofInternational Viewpoint. Simply follow this link:Donatethen enter an amount of your choice. One-off donations are very welcome. But regular donations by standing order are also vital to our continuing functioning. See the last paragraph ofthis articlefor our bank account details and take out a standing order. Thanks.
International Viewpoint is published under the responsibility of the Bureau of the Fourth International. Signed articles do not necessarily reflect editorial policy. Articles can be reprinted with acknowledgement, and a live link if possible.
We need your help to get our message across! Send donations payable to International Viewpoint 10b Windsor Rd N7 6JG, Britain - or why not donate online:
Site Map|Log in|Contact|RSS 2.0

Title: BBC World Service - Newsday, Using puppets to mock Sudan’s leadership

Ganja Mohamed Chakado is a young Sudanese actor from the Nuba mountains who created a satirical web series called "Bisha TV" to depict what's happening in his homeland during the conflict between government forces and rebel fighters. Using puppets, the show follows Sudan's two strong men - President Omar al-Bashir and Hemeti, the commander of Sudan's Rapid Support Forces, as they pursue their violent campaign across the country.Over one million people have watched "Bisha TV". Unfortunately, the success of his show has meant Ganja Chakado has had to flee Sudan and is now in a refugee camp in Uganda, from where he told us his story.
(Picture: Ganja Chakado with the puppet of president Omar al-Bashir. Credit: Courtesy of Roopa Gogineni)
2 minutes
Following the historic protests that led to the ousting of the President
Duration: 03:28
Duration: 01:25
Duration: 06:29
Duration: 04:27

Title: SLM-AW: ‘Darfur village raised by shelling’ - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
The Sudan Liberation Movement faction under the leadership of Abdelwahid El Nur (SLM-AW) reports that government forces, stationed at Gobo area south of Jebel Marra have burned the entire village of Saboun El Fagur with artillery shells, causing a number of deaths and injuries.
The Sudan Liberation Movement faction under the leadership of Abdelwahid El Nur (SLM-AW) reports that government forces, stationed at Gobo area south of Jebel Marra have burned the entire village of Saboun El Fagur with artillery shells, causing a number of deaths and injuries.
In an interview with Radio Dabanga, Mohamed El Nayer, the spokesman for the movement condemned targeting the unarmed civilian villages in the strongest terms, considering it “an attempt by the regime to divert attention from the real crisis it is experiencing as a result of the peaceful popular uprising organised in most parts of the country”.
Armed robbery
Ibrahim Abdelkarim, a resident of the Northern Nierteti Camp for the displaced was shot dead in a robbery, allegedly by army soldiers, on Tuesday night.
One of the camp sheikhs told Radio Dabanga that five members of the army attacked Abdelkarim at 7 pm on Tuesday, shot him dead, stole his possessions of a mobile phone and money and then fled.
‘Hard to monitor’
The stricken village is specifically mentioned in the latestperiodic report by UN Secretary-General António Guterres to the UN Security Councilof January 14.
In his report, Guterres laments: “The ability of Unamid to independently monitor and verify reported violations of international humanitarian law and human rights law remained a challenge, owing to lack of access to Jebel Marra, in particular in Feina and Saboun El Fagur localities in Central Darfur. Victims and witnesses interviewed reported serious human rights concerns involving the Sudanese Armed Forces, Military Intelligence, the National Intelligence, and Security Services, and Rapid Support Forces (RSF), including alleged indiscriminate killings, sexual violence in the form of rape, arbitrary arrests and illegal detention.
“Notwithstanding sustained and positive engagement between state authorities and Unamid, corroborating reports on human rights incidents in Central Darfur continued to be a challenge.”
Guterres notes that this is owing in part to lack of willingness by law enforcement and judicial authorities to share information with Unamid.
Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: RSF expects concrete measures from Serbian president  -  B92

Reporters Without Borders (RSF) expects positive changes for press freedom in the biggest Balkan country, which aspires to join the European Union.
Izvor:RSF
Thursday, 24.01.2019.
11:16

Ovo su ljudi koje, iako ste jako ljuti, ne možete izvređati. Njihovo vaspitanje i pristup će vas momentalno razoružati.
18:00
27.8.2024.
1d
Rat u Ukrajini – 916. dan.
23:34
28.8.2024.
17h
Uzastopne seizmičke aktivnosti koje već dva meseca potresaju Svetu goru i priobalna područja opštine Aristotel na Halkidikiju, mobilisale su lokalne vlasti.
15:23
28.8.2024.
1d
Rat u Ukrajini – 915. dan.
23:40
27.8.2024.
1d
Fudbaleri Crvene zvezde izborili su još jedan plasman u grupnu fazu Lige šampiona.
0:46
29.8.2024.
16h
Podeli:
Državni inspektorat Hrvatske obavestio je potrošače o opozivu proizvoda "PROBIOBOOST CONFORT GASTRIKUE“ – dodatak ishrani.
17:19
29.8.2024.
2min
Predsednik Republike Srpske Milorad Dodik izjavio je danas da šef  Delegacije EU Јohan Satler i na odlasku kleveće Republiku Srpsku i da izgleda da ništa nije shvatio tokom boravka u BiH.
17:17
29.8.2024.
4min
Dosadašnji fudbaler Atalante, Holanđanin Teun Kopmajners potpisao je ugovor sa Juventusom do 2029. godine, saopštio je italijanski klub.
17:11
29.8.2024.
10min
Crvena zvezda danas saznaje sa kim će igrati u Ligi šampiona. Žreb grupne faze pratite uživo uz B92.sport (18.00).
17:03
29.8.2024.
18min
Najmanje 179 ljudi je poginulo, a desetine hiljada je raseljeno tokom nekoliko nedelja poplava u Nigeriji, saopštila je danas Nacionalna agencija za upravljanje vanrednim situacijama.
17:02
29.8.2024.
19min
Predsednik Republike Srpske Milorad Dodik izjavio je danas da šef  Delegacije EU Јohan Satler i na odlasku kleveće Republiku Srpsku i da izgleda da ništa nije shvatio tokom boravka u BiH.
17:17
29.8.2024.
4min
Najmanje 179 ljudi je poginulo, a desetine hiljada je raseljeno tokom nekoliko nedelja poplava u Nigeriji, saopštila je danas Nacionalna agencija za upravljanje vanrednim situacijama.
17:02
29.8.2024.
19min
Republički hidrometeorološki zavod Srbije objavio je novu najavu za područje Srbije.
16:46
29.8.2024.
35min
Policija Nju Hempšira upucala je i usmrtila muškarca osumnjičenog da je ubio svoje dete na mostu na reci Piskatakva, koji povezuje države Nju Hempšir i Mejn, prenosi AP.
16:30
29.8.2024.
51min
"Više od 50 sela povezuje ova reka", rekao je Milan Krkobabić, ministar za brigu o selu povodom održane manifestacije Miholjski susreti sela u Ljuboviji, uz regatu na Drini.
16:21
29.8.2024.
1h
Tik pred početak 11. Festivala duodrame u Topoli, organizatorima ovog festivala stigao je dopis reditelja Luke Jovanova u kome se "otkazuje" nastup zbog učešća Branislava Lečića.
16:50
29.8.2024.
31min
Jedan Britanac sa hrvatskom adresom stanovanja, koji objavljuje na TikTok profilu pod imenom "Life in Croatia", požalio se na veliki problem u Hrvatskoj.
16:26
29.8.2024.
55min
Musi inače živi i radi u Dubaiju, a u Englesku je stigao poslovno.
15:26
29.8.2024.
1h
Interesovanje ogromno, ulaznice se prodaju neverovatnom brzinom.
15:06
29.8.2024.
2h
Švedska pop grupa ABBA danas je zatražila od bivšeg predsednika SAD Donalda Trampa da prestane da koristi njihovu muziku na predizbornim skupovima.
14:56
29.8.2024.
2h
Državni inspektorat Hrvatske obavestio je potrošače o opozivu proizvoda "PROBIOBOOST CONFORT GASTRIKUE“ – dodatak ishrani.
17:19
29.8.2024.
2min
Britanska vlada navodno razmatra zabranu pušenja u nekim spoljašnjim prostorima kako bi poboljšala javno zdravlje, piše agencija dpa.
15:58
29.8.2024.
1h
Testiranje prve vakcine protiv raka pluća stiglo je do faze provere efikasnosti na pacijentima. Kliničko ispitivanje je počelo i odvijaće se u sedam zemalja širom sveta.
14:09
29.8.2024.
3h
Svetska zdravstvena organizacija upozorila je danas na povećan rizik od seksualno prenosivih infekcija, kao i od neželjene trudnoće zbog smanjene upotrebe sredstava za kontracepciju među mladima.
12:24
29.8.2024.
4h
Kalijum je jedan od onih esencijalnih minerala koje većina ljudi svakodnevno ne dobija dovoljno u telu.
8:08
29.8.2024.
9h
Stiven King nikada nije oklevao da kritikuje filmske adaptacije svojih knjiga.
12:48
29.8.2024.
4h
Glumica Sigorni Viver (74) ovogodišnja je dobitnica Zlatnog lava za životno delo na otvaranju 81. Venecijanskog filmskog festivala.
9:06
29.8.2024.
8h
Nikol Kidman u novom intervjuu za "L’Officiel“ otkrila je da joj novac nije najvažniji kada glumi u velikim holivudskim produkcijama, piše Variety.
8:08
29.8.2024.
9h
Studio Warner Bros Pictures je objavio zvanični trejler za dugo očekivani dokumentarac Super/Man: Priča o Kristoferu Rivu.
21:47
28.8.2024.
19h
Rajan Rejnolds je prošlog meseca oduševio milione ljudi filmom Deadpool & Wolverine, poslednjim filmom o Deadpoolu.
17:59
28.8.2024.
23h
Beograd, Buenos Aires, Bukurešt i Astana će biti domaćini četiri PGL događaja tokom 2025. godine, sa nagradnim fondom od 1.250.000 dolara za svaki događaj.
13:52
28.8.2024.
1d
Naši reprezentativci će se takmičiti u grupi C, zajedno sa Litvanijom, Španijom i Albanijom.
14:13
27.8.2024.
2d
Izgleda da Valve ipak ume da broji do tri.
18:52
26.8.2024.
2d
Ako ste očekivali preslikanog Puppet Mastera iz HoN-a, razočaraćete se.
12:32
23.8.2024.
6d
Naši reprezentativci će se takmičiti u grupi A, zajedno sa Belgijom, Jermenijom i Švedskom.
14:38
22.8.2024.
7d
Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Zaječar ordered new, additional expert reports as part of the investigation it is conducting against two workers of the "Waterworks" PUC, on the suspicion that they killed Danka Ilić (2) on March 26 in Banjsko Polje.
13:25
29.8.2024.
3h
From September 1 to the end of October, citizens will be able to buy 81 types of products, where there are actually 700 products, in 2,500 retail stores at prices that are more favorable than the promotional ones.
12:12
29.8.2024.
5h
Germany has ordered the Iranian head of the recently banned Islamic Center in Hamburg (IZH), Imam Mohammad Hadi Mofatteh, to leave the country within 14 days, the authorities in Hamburg announced today.
11:45
29.8.2024.
5h
CNN's analysis says that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky is throwing all his cards on the table to try to get tangible results before the US elections change the fate of Ukraine.
11:19
29.8.2024.
6h
Vladica Cvetković, founder of the opposition ProGlas, full professor of the Faculty of Mining and Geology, full member of SANU and one of the biggest mining experts in Serbia, in an interview with Radar, attacked all conspiracy theories about lithium mining.
10:08
29.8.2024.
7h
Dolazeća konzola PlayStation 5 Pro, kompanije Sony, će uskoro biti predstavljena, a sada se pojavila potencijalna cena uređaja.
16:10
29.8.2024.
1h
Jedna od najboljih video igara svih vremena dobija novu kompilaciju.
14:30
29.8.2024.
2h
Novi izveštaji sugerišu da NATO od jedne belgijske kompanije želi da nabavi podvodne dronove za uklanjanje mina.
12:48
29.8.2024.
4h
Ukrajinski predsednik Volodimir Zelenski je saopštio da je ta zemlja uspešno razvila prvu balističku raketu lokalne proizvodnje.
11:39
29.8.2024.
5h
Apple će predstaviti iPhone 16 seriju 9. septembra, ali sledeća generacija, iPhone 17, već privlači pažnju tehnološkog sveta.
10:59
29.8.2024.
6h
Na najnovijem testu sajta Polovni automobili našao se još jedan kineski model na tržištu.
15:45
29.8.2024.
1h
Nedavno su vlasnici automobila  žestoko kritikovali brend Zeekr nakon što je proizvođač lansirao ažuriranu verziju vozila 001, samo šest meseci nakon poslednje promene modela.
13:53
29.8.2024.
3h
U Nemačkoj se od 1. oktobra menjaju propisi koji se tiču zimskih guma.
12:49
29.8.2024.
4h
Fiat Topolino je mali automobil koji deli šasiju sa modelima Citroën Ami i Opel Rocks Electric, košta manje od 10.000 evra i nudi motor od 8 KS.
11:00
29.8.2024.
6h
Ako želite da kupite jeftini novi EV, možda ćete morati da se preselite u Kinu.
10:13
29.8.2024.
7h
Prošlo je 30 godina otkako je "Definitivno možda" preselio braću Galager iz mančesterske dnevne sobe na najveće svetske bine.
14:11
29.8.2024.
3h
Za neke devojčice u Indiji bicikl je jedan od glavnih uslova da se obrazuju, jer moraju da prelaze mnogo kilometara do škola.
14:09
29.8.2024.
3h
Nepogoda je počela oko osam časova ujutru po lokalnom vremenu, saopštila je Japanska meteorološka agencija.
13:26
29.8.2024.
3h
Među 4.400 takmičara na Paraolimpijskim igrama naći će se i 68 sportista iz bivših jugoslovenskih republika, a neki od njih braniće odličja iz Tokija.
12:45
29.8.2024.
4h
Međunarodni sud pravde je naložio da Izrael mora da spreči javne izjave koje podstiču na genocid - da li se to dešava u praksi?
9:57
29.8.2024.
7h
Skini aplikaciju
© 1995 - 2024, B92

Title: Improving Prospects for a Peaceful Transition in Sudan | Crisis Group
Popular protests are rumbling across Sudan, shaking President Omar al-Bashir’s 30-year grip on power. The authorities have cracked down hard and, as the demonstrations intensify, they may ratchet up the repression. External powers should urge restraint and offer Bashir a way to the exit.
What’s new?Protests across Sudan flared up as the government cut a vital bread subsidy. Economic grievances are fuelling demands for political change, with protesters calling on President Omar al-Bashir, in power since 1989, to resign. Authorities have responded with violence, killing dozens and arresting many more.
Why does it matter?In the past, President Bashir and his government have been able to ride out popular demonstrations. But these newest protests, demanding Bashir resign because of economic mismanagement and corruption, have spread to loyalist regions and coincide with rising discontent in his party.
What should be done?Foreign governments influential in Khartoum should continue to publicly discourage violence against demonstrators, with Western powers signalling that future aid and, in the U.S.’s case, sanctions relief are at stake. They should seek to improve prospects for a peaceful transition by creating incentives for Bashir to step down.
Protests engulfing Sudanese towns and cities have seen dozens killed in crackdowns by security forces and could turn bloodier still. Demonstrators express fury over subsidy cuts and call for President Omar al-Bashir to resign. Discontent within the ruling party, the depth of the economic crisis and the diverse makeup of protests suggest Bashir has less room to manoeuvre than before. He may survive, though likely by suppressing protests with levels of violence that would reverse his recent rapprochement with Western powers and deepen Sudan’s economic woes. Another scenario would entail his ouster by parts of the security apparatus, though this could also prove destabilising. Better would be for Bashir to negotiate his exit, perhaps induced by some form of conditional immunity. Outside powers should keep discouraging crackdowns, with Western leaders underscoring that continuing to use violence against protestors will scuttle aid and sanctions relief. They should also create incentives for Bashir to resign and signal to Sudanese elites the economic lifeline on offer were that to happen.
Protests broke out in mid-December in Atbara, a mid-size town 350km from the capital Khartoum, and quickly spread to towns and cities across the country. People from all parts of Sudanese society initially took to the streets to protest the rising cost of staples, particularly bread; anger had been bubbling for years but heightened when the government lifted wheat subsidies in January 2018 without putting in place social protections to offset deteriorating living conditions. Now, many protesters focus their ire on the president himself and demonstrations feature chants calling on him and other top officials to step down.
President Bashir has weathered many such protests in the past, but a number of factors this time around are different. Protesters have gathered in Bashir’s strongholds, mostly in the wealthier centre of the country, and attacked several ruling party offices. The police and other security agencies, including the National Intelligence and Security Services (NISS), have at times responded brutally but the army has shown greater restraint than before and, noting this, the opposition has urged generals to remove Bashir. The feared Rapid Support Forces, a government militia renowned for its brutal counterinsurgency tactics, has been active, particularly in Khartoum, but less prominent than during previous protests, when they were responsible for many deaths. Within the ruling party and security elites, ever-louder voices question whether the country can escape its economic doldrums with Bashir at the helm, given that his presidency is the greatest obstacle to obtaining foreign aid or loans.
Three scenarios appear possible. One is that the president survives, though without funds to offer protesters significant reforms, he will likely have to subdue them by force. This in turn would slow Western re-engagement with Khartoum and almost certainly end prospects of the U.S. lifting its remaining sanctions, including its designation of Sudan as a state sponsor of terrorism, which in effect bars Sudan from international debt relief or bailouts. A second scenario could see protests gathering pace and prompting the president’s ouster by elements within his party or security elites. This might usher in a new government and fresh direction, though it could also trigger further instability. To insulate against coups, Bashir has regularly shuffled security chiefs, marginalised rivals and kept the security forces factionalised. A takeover by another senior figure could prompt infighting among divided security factions.
A third scenario would see Bashir resign. This would allow for a leadership change that could mollify protesters. Many see Bashir as emblematic of an unaccountable and self-interested elite that has led the country into long-term economic crisis, isolated Sudan and stubbornly refused to implement substantial reforms to resolve these problems. Some of Bashir’s allies and former senior officials are encouraging him to step down in 2020; the president pledging not to contest the 2020 vote would be positive, though this carries a risk that he later reneges. For now, he shows few signs of stepping down. Indeed, the president has strong incentives not to do so, fearing the next government would hold him accountable for corruption at home or, if he leaves Sudan, delivery to the International Criminal Court, which has indicted him for atrocities in Darfur.
For outside powers, the first priority should be to minimise bloodshed on the streets. Foreign governments with sway in Khartoum should publicly discourage violence against demonstrators and call on the government to maintain forces, especially the Rapid Support Forces, in check. Western powers should continue to signal that future cooperation, aid and, in the U.S.’s case, normalisation of ties, are at stake. They should warn commanders of the various security forces that they could face travel bans, asset seizures and prosecution abroad for indiscriminate violence against demonstrators.
More broadly, those governments should seek to improve prospects for a peaceful transition; doing so is as critical as taking immediate steps to deter violence. Behind the scenes, they should press the president to step down or at least pledge not to seek re-election in 2020. They might also signal to Sudanese political and security elites that greater aid and investment would likely be forthcoming without Bashir. The UN Security Council might also offer to request the ICC defer investigation or prosecution of Bashir’s case for one year, pursuant to the Rome Statute’s Article 16, were he to resign or to leave office in 2020; the deferral could be extended provided Bashir stayed out of – and did not interfere in any way with – Sudanese politics. The downsides to deferring his case would be enormous, but without a pledge along these lines, Bashir is unlikely to step down.
Protests broke out on 19 December in Atbara, a town about 350km from the capital Khartoum and the historic home of Sudan’s once-powerful national labour movement.[fn]For past Crisis Group work on the implications of Sudan’s long-term economic crisis and the prospects of full re-engagement with Western powers, see, Crisis Group Africa Reports N°194,Sudan: Major Reform or More War, 29 November 2012; N°174,Divisions in Sudan’s Ruling Party and the Threat to the Country’s Future Stability, 4 May 2011 and Crisis Group Africa Briefing N°128,A New Roadmap to Make U.S. Sudan Sanctions Relief Work, 29 September 2017. Sudan’s national labour movement was historically influential, playing a lead role in the agitation for the end of Anglo-Egyptian rule and demands for expansion of political space after independence. Bashir banned independent unions and imprisoned leading figures in the labour movement after taking power in 1989 but unions are still allowed to organise by sector and an alliance of professional unions is spearheading this latest wave of protests. The date 19 December is also significant as it marks the day when, in 1955, Sudanese nationalists kicked off a campaign for independence from the Anglo-Egyptian condominium that ruled Sudan between 1899 and 1956.Hide FootnoteThis followed a cut that same month in the government subsidy on bread in River Nile state, where Atbara is located, which tripled its price. Demonstrations quickly spread across the country to at least 28 towns and cities, including major centres such as Port Sudan, El-Gadarif and, eventually, the twin cities of Khartoum and Omdurman, the country’s political and economic centres. Videos posted on social media, circulating despite the government’s attempt to shut down the internet, showed protesters calling for Bashir to step down from power.[fn]See, “Protesters call on Sudan’s President Bashir to step down”, BBC,4 January 2019.Hide FootnoteUnusually, protests are taking place in riverine areas, which are close to Sudan’s wealthier centre and traditionally loyal to Bashir, making them all the more threatening to his rule.[fn]Crisis Group interviews, academics, security figures and National Congress Party (NCP) officials, Khartoum, December 2018–January 2019. Unlike in 2013, the protests do not mainly include just opposition supporters. Some affiliates of the ruling party have broken with the government and backed the demonstrators; the response of many senior officials to calls for change has been muted. One NCP official said it was significant that senior officials apart from Bashir have come out to condemn the protesters or to defend the government. He said this uncertainty about events but also a general frustration with Bashir’s administration, including among ruling party supporters unhappy with the economy and wanting a change of direction.Hide FootnoteProtesters have attacked offices of the ruling National Congress Party (NCP) in a number of towns, ransacking and sometimes burning the buildings; rarely in the past have such attacks occurred outside Darfur or Sudan’s other conflict zones.
Protesters come from mixed political and economic backgrounds. They include members of Sudan’s longstanding leftist movements, the Sudanese Communist Party and the Sudanese Congress Party (whose members are particularly active on social media) and a number of other political parties, along with professional trade unions, notably doctors, who are currently on strike.[fn]Sudan’s opposition parties have joined protesters in urging Bashir to step down. A number of smaller parties affiliated with the NCP also on 1 January asked Bashir to leave power and form a government of technocrats to resolve the crisis. Protesters on the streets, however, have been keen to emphasise their non-affiliation with any of the mainstream political parties.Hide FootnoteThe newly-formed Sudanese Professionals Association – an umbrella group encompassing several professional unions – organised a march on the presidential palace on 25 December and again on 31 December demanding Bashir’s resignation. The association is coordinating withGirifna, a loose coalition of youth movements formed by anti-regime university students in 2009 to agitate for reform in Sudan and a change in the country’s leadership.[fn]Girifnameans “We are fed up” in Arabic.Hide FootnoteThe bulk of the protesters, however, are ordinary Sudanese with no strong political affiliation and who blame their dire economic plight on the NCP’s economic mismanagement and kleptocracy.
So far, the Sudanese government’s response has largely involved deploying its four security organs: the police, the Sudan Armed Forces (SAF), the National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS) and Rapid Support Forces militia.[fn]In an effort to prevent a coup, Bashir has deliberately created numerous separate security and intelligence units, with loyalties to different leaders.Hide FootnoteThose forces, accustomed to violent tactics, have shot into crowds and hurled teargas at protesters. Amnesty International stated on 24 December that it had “credible reports” that 37 people had already been killed.[fn]“Amnesty International: 37 killed in Sudan protests”, Associated Press,25 December 2018.Hide FootnoteThat said, security forces have not yet unleashed the level of brutality witnessed in 2013, when militias indiscriminately killed almost 200 protesters then opposing the removal of a fuel subsidy.[fn]‘Sudan: Five years later and no justice for 185 protesters shot dead by security forces’, Amnesty International,9 October 2018.Hide Footnote
Bashir has labelled the protesters “vandals and looters” and in a speech, delivered in the NCP’s stronghold of Gezira state, just south of Khartoum, describing them as “traitors, mercenaries, agents and heretics”.[fn]“Sudan’s Omar al-Bashir: ‘Our duty is to stop looting’”, Al Jazeera,31 December 2018;“Sudan’s protests points to weaknesses in Bashir’s rule”, Associated Press,27 December 2018.Hide FootnoteBut at the same time, he has urged the police not to use “excessive force”.[fn]“Sudan’s Bashir tells police to rein in force against protesters”,Daily Nation,31 December 2018. In 2013, Bashir opted for a violent response, sending militias out to the streets to shoot into crowds. He did not issue statements acknowledging the legitimacy of protesters’ grievances as he has in 2018.Hide FootnoteReportedly, some senior security officials have counselled against using indiscriminate violence, fearing this could provoke a larger public backlash and weaken the government’s relationship with Western countries, who have already condemned the violence.[fn]Crisis Group telephone interview, Sudanese academic, December 2018. The head of the intelligence service, Salah Gosh, is said to be coordinating the regime’s response to the protests and he has reportedly advised against a harsh crackdown. The UK, Norway, the U.S. plus Canada, the “Troika” of countries coordinating talks that could lead to full re-engagement between Khartoum and the West warned 8 January that the actions of Sudanese authorities in response to protests would have an impact on efforts at re-engagement. See p. 12, also “Troika countries say human rights violations during Sudan protests may affect engagement with Khartoum”,Sudan Tribune,9 January 2019.Hide Footnote
Encouraged by the army’s reticence, a coalition of political parties including some Islamists previously allied with Bashir, has urged the military to seize power.[fn]See, “No objection to handing power to the army: Sudanese president”,Sudan Tribune,9 January 2019.Hide FootnoteAlthough protesters favour the wholesale fall of the government, many would welcome a transition that sees Bashir leave, offers a chance for economic relief and opens the way to political reform.[fn]Crisis Group telephone interview, Sudanese civil society activist, December 2018.Hide FootnoteResponding to calls for a military intervention, Bashir declared 8 January that he was open to handing over to the military but not, in words he uses to describe the political opposition, to “traitors”.[fn]See, “Bashir scoffs at Sudan protesters, says army won’t back traitors”, Africa News, 9 January 2019 and “al-Bashir hints at handing power to army”, allafrica.com, 9 January 2019.Hide Footnote
President Bashir’s government has weathered protests and contended with economic discontent in the past. But entering 2019, it has fewer options for generating the revenue necessary to assuage protesters. It has faced a severe economic crisis since the start of 2018,consistently refused to cut exorbitant state spending in the security sector and lost potential investment due to sanctions, international isolation and a failure to develop an attractive environment for investors. The country’s already-high levels of debt mean that it will be difficult to borrow funds to finance its deficits, and its chief financial backers in the Gulf are less generous than in the past.
Sudan’s economic crisis originates in part from South Sudan’s secession in 2011, which led to the loss of nearly three quarters of Sudan’s oil reserves. Previously, oil production generated around half of all tax revenues and two thirds of Sudan’s foreign exchange earnings.[fn]Sudan: 2013 Article IV Consultation”, IMF Country Report No. 13/317, October 2013, p. 4.Hide FootnoteThe secession agreement sought to cushion the impact of South Sudan’s independence through a series of lump-sum payments from the now oil-rich Juba to Khartoum amounting to some $3 billion. But this arrangement only went so far in compensating for fundamental damage to the Sudanese economy and, in any case, Juba has been unable to pay up since South Sudan’s civil war broke out in December 2013.[fn]More than two decades of easy oil money had also made Sudan’s large agricultural economy uncompetitive. See Kabbashi Suliman, “Understanding and Avoiding the Oil Curse in Sudan”, in Ibrahim Elbadawi and Hoda Selim (eds.),Understanding and Avoiding the Oil Curse in Resource-rich Arab Economies(Cambridge, 2016), pp. 421-460. Khartoum subsequently took oil in lieu of cash payment.Hide Footnote
While the economic shock of South Sudan’s secession was inevitable, Khartoum also failed to prepare for it. Long-term economic mismanagement, pervasive graft and high military expenditure have contributed to unaffordable levels of spending.[fn]Sudan is rated 175 out of 180 on Transparency International’s corruption perception index. See, “Sudan, South Sudan, near bottom of 2017 corruption perceptions index”, dabangasudan.com,23 February 2018.Hide FootnoteInternational isolation caused by U.S. sanctions, introduced in the late 1990s, inhibited attempts to diversify the economy through foreign investment, leaving Sudan with a crippling lack of foreign-exchange reserves, which has resulted in shortages, particularly of fuel.[fn]“Sudan: Staff Report for the 2017 Article IV Consultation”, IMF Country Report No. 17/364, 13 November 2017, p. 25.Hide FootnoteA small gold boom since 2011 has not made up for the loss of oil revenue, in part because traders avoided selling to the Central Bank and instead smuggled gold out of Sudan to countries where prices were higher.[fn]Crisis Group interview, Sudanese politician, Khartoum, 22 February 2018.Hide FootnoteFurthermore, Sudan’s $55 billion in external debt prevents the government from accessing new foreign credit, except ad hoc loans mostly from Gulf allies. Sudan would normally be eligible for debt relief under the joint International Monetary Fund (IMF)-World Bank Heavily Indebted Poor Country Initiative (HIPC), but cannot gain that while it remains on the U.S.’s list of state sponsors of terrorism.[fn]For countries on the U.S. state sponsors of terrorism list (SSTL), sanctions are applied under four main categories: restrictions on U.S. foreign assistance, a ban on defence exports and sales, certain controls over exports of dual use items, and miscellaneous financial and other restrictions. Most importantly, this means the U.S. government cannot support World Bank debt relief assistance to Sudan. Due to the influential positions the U.S. holds within international financial institutions (World Bank and IMF) this effectively means that the U.S. government can veto debt relief or major economic assistance programs for Sudan. “State Sponsors of Terrorism”, U.S. Department of State.Hide Footnote
Authorities in Khartoum like to blame U.S. sanctions for all the country’s economic woes. But their own failure to encourage dynamism contributes significantly to economic dysfunction. Investors talk of encountering a sclerotic bureaucracy which insists on imposing byzantine rules for simple transactions, causing many to stay away. The security establishment’s overbearing control of economic policy, including in determining allocation of foreign currency, does little to improve conditions for business.[fn]
The government’s limited attempts at belt tightening have both failed to address the economic crisis and fuelled discontent. In January 2018, its annual budget included a cut to wheat subsidies. The World Bank and IMF had encouraged such measures, seeing subsidies as a costly and ineffective method to help the poor, but recommended Khartoum offset these cuts by increasing spending on social protection, such as making cash transfers to needy families.[fn]Crisis Group interviews, World Bank and IMF economists, Khartoum, February 2018.Hide FootnoteThe government did not do so. Moreover, because its efforts to reduce spending focused on eliminating subsidies rather than downsizing the military budget or recovering revenues lost to corruption, they hit the poor hardest.[fn]According to the government, spending on security and defence was 23.9 per cent of total expenditures. “Projected General Budget Expenditure of the National Government for the Year 2018 on the Basis of Sectors”, Government of the Republic of Sudan, December 2017, p. 80. Hard copy seen by Crisis Group.Hide FootnoteIn response to the wheat subsidy cut, bread prices doubled and the cost of other staples, particularly sorghum and millet, increased as the market reacted to extra demand.[fn]Wheat smuggling was rife, with traders buying the subsidised wheat in Sudan and selling it at a high price in neighbouring countries. Crisis Group interviews, Sudanese economist and politician, Khartoum, February 2018; “Food Price Monitoring and Analysis Bulletin”, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, 16 February 2018.Hide Footnote
At the same time, the government devalued the Sudanese pound from seven to eighteen pounds per U.S. dollar and then later to 30 pounds per dollar. Following the first devaluation in early January 2018, the illegal parallel market rate, which had fluctuated between eighteen and twenty Sudanese pounds per dollar, rapidly increased to 31 and later doubled to 60 pounds per dollar.[fn]“Sudan pound slides to widest over official rate since devaluation”, Reuters,10 December 2018.Hide FootnoteThe government then became concerned about the possibility of uncontrollable hyperinflation and, from February 2018, put in place limits on the amount of money Sudanese could withdraw from banks.[fn]Crisis Group interview, Sudanese economist, Khartoum, 15 February 2018.Hide FootnoteIn November 2018, the official inflation rate stood at 68.93 per cent, one of the world’s highest.[fn]“Sudan’s inflation rises to 68.93 per cent as dollar price hits record high”,Sudan Tribune,11 December 2018.Hide Footnote
Already in January and February 2018, the combined effects of the subsidy cuts and the currency devaluation stimulated a number of well-coordinated protests. Many demonstrators were committed anti-government activists and some were linked to established opposition political parties; the protests failed to attract the broader social base that has taken to the streets today and were not large enough to threaten Bashir. Still, security forces arrested over a hundred protesters and held them without charge for weeks.[fn]Dozens arrested in Sudan as protests over price hikes continue”, Sudan Tribune, 17 January 2018; Crisis Group interview, Sudanese opposition activist detained by government January – April 2018, phone, April 2018.Hide FootnoteNewspapers that covered the events had entire print runs confiscated and some journalists were temporarily detained. The harsh measures the government used illustrated its nervousness about potential public anger at the economic downturn.
While Sudan’s relations with Western powers, particularly the U.S. and European Union, have improved, they have yet to pay economic dividends. Over the past few years, Khartoum has skilfully used its advantages as a partner on counter-terrorism (particularly regarding jihadist groups in neighbouring Libya), its influential role in South Sudan and its cooperation with the EU on migration management to slowly build better relations with Western countries. Western diplomats also cite Sudan’s strategically important location and the need to prevent further economic decline that could lead to political instability and conflict as drivers of their gradual re-engagement.[fn]Crisis Group interviews, Senior EU diplomat, Khartoum, 20 February 2018; EU officials, Brussels, January 2018; U.S. government officials, Washington D.C., March 2018.Hide FootnoteThough European concerns over migration attract the most press coverage, diplomats say they worry most about the economy’s structural fragility and the possibility of state collapse that could further destabilise the region.[fn]Crisis Group interview, European ambassador, Khartoum, June 2018.Hide Footnote
In October 2017, the U.S. lifted some economic sanctions, which had been in place since the late 1990s. As yet, however, this has not had a notable effect. Khartoum remains deeply in debt and considered a risky investment destination. The second phase of U.S. sanctions relief, the program for which was announced in November 2018 – requiring Khartoum to make improvements in six areas, including in its respect for human rights – should be more significant, potentially leading to Sudan’s eventual removal from the U.S.’s state sponsors of terrorism list. This could allow the country to secure debt relief or a full World Bank or IMF bailout.[fn]“Sudan Commits to Strengthening Cooperation and Meaningful Reforms”, U.S. State Department, 8 November 2018.Hide FootnoteSudanese officials also argue that the country’s continued designation as a state sponsor of terrorism has kept foreign investors and banks away. The country’s foreign minister has said Khartoum would quickly ask for a bailout by the IMF if the designation is lifted.[fn]See, “Trump administration gives Sudan a way to come in from the cold”,Foreign Policy,8 November 2018.Hide Footnote
In recent years, Khartoum has relied heavily on assistance from Gulf partners, particularly Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Qatar, to prop up its ailing economy. According to the IMF, Gulf monarchies deposited an estimated $2.5 billion into the Central Bank of Sudan in 2015-16.[fn]“Sudan: Staff Report for the 2017 Article IV Consultation—Debt Sustainability”, IMF Country Report No. 17/364, 13 November 2017, p. 3.Hide FootnoteThis was, in part, a payment for Khartoum’s 2014 decision to break off relations with Tehran and committing thousands of Sudanese forces to the Saudi-led war against the Huthis in Yemen. In return, Riyadh also lobbied the U.S. for the repeal of economic sanctions.
These warming ties suffered a setback in June 2017 due to the Gulf crisis, which saw Saudi Arabia, the UAE and a number of their allies sever diplomatic relations with and impose an economic blockade on Qatar.[fn]This has had far-reaching and destabilising effects on the Horn of Africa region beyond Sudan. Crisis Group Commentary,“A Dangerous Gulf in the Horn: How the Inter-Arab Crisis is Fuelling Regional Tensions”, 3 August 2017.Hide FootnoteDespite pressure from Riyadh and Abu Dhabi, and unlike some other African governments, Sudan has not picked a side in the Gulf dispute, preferring maintain good relations across the board. That said, despite its nominally neutrality, Sudan is ideologically closer to the more Islamist-leaning administrations in Qatar and its main ally, Turkey. Though Khartoum has maintained cordial ties to Saudi Arabia and UAE (and retains troops in Yemen), financial assistance from those two powers has mostly dried up at a critical moment, in part, perhaps, because they view Khartoum as insufficiently loyal but also because they see investment in Sudan as risky.[fn]Crisis Group interviews, Emirati government figures and think-tank officials, Abu Dhabi, July 2018. Officials say they appreciate Sudan’s assistance in Yemen, where Sudanese troops are deployed in some of the most dangerous front lines, but find Bashir erratic and that his precise loyalties are unclear.Hide FootnoteThis has contributed to the vulnerable position in which President Bashir now finds himself.
President Bashir has shown himself capable of weathering popular unrest in the past. This time around, however, he has fewer options to placate demonstrators and is widely seen, including by many within his own ruling party, as part of the country’s malaise rather than an antidote to it. Even so, the critical questions at this juncture are whether protests calling for Bashir’s resignation will gather force and, if so, whether this will change the calculations of the security forces and elites who still support him. Three different scenarios could unfold.
The first, and seemingly most probable, is that the security services step up repression to disperse protesters, deter future demonstrations and crack down on the unions and associations organising them. As in the past, such a campaign could see protests dwindle without any immediate threat to Bashir’s hold on power. This would ensure Bashir’s short-term survival, but greater repression risks backfiring and prompting more public outrage. A crackdown would likely slow, if not halt, Sudan’s improving relations with Western powers and lifting of U.S. sanctions, thus blocking its path to debt relief or a World Bank or IMF bailout and leaving the government no good option to improve economic conditions. Bashir would simply store up more problems for the future, when unaddressed grievances could potentially trigger even greater protest.
In this scenario, countries that remain friendly to Khartoum will almost certainly be unwilling or unable to provide the funds necessary to reverse the economic slide. Bashir may look to the Gulf, as he has in the past. But while Gulf leaders on both sides of the 2017 intra-Gulf spat (Saudi Arabia and the UAE, on one side, and Qatar on the other) can be described as allies and Riyadh and Abu Dhabi in particular want Sudanese troops to remain in Yemen, they will probably not provide game-changing support.[fn]Ibid.Hide FootnoteAn injection of cash from the Gulf – most likely from Qatar – might, in other words, buy Bashir time but would not address the country’s underlying economic challenges. While Turkey and Russia, both relatively new players in Khartoum, have growing business and diplomatic interests in the country, those interests are not sufficiently large or important to motivate a more serious, direct investment in the government.[fn]Crisis Group interview, Turkish diplomat, Khartoum, February 2018. The Bashir administration has sought to deepen ties with Russia in recent years although it is unclear if Moscow deems these budding relations sufficiently significant for them to invest directly in the government’s survival. President Bashir visited Moscow in July 2018 and urged the Russians to broaden their engagement with Sudan in the face of what he described as Western hostility. He also travelled to Syria, a key ally of Russia, with Moscow’s apparent encouragement, in the third week of December. The head of Sudan’s defence subcommittee said 13 January that a draft agreement had been signed that could pave the way for Russia to build a military base on Sudanese territory. “Sudan says Russia could set up military base in Red Sea”,Sudan Tribune,13 January 2019.Hide FootnoteChina’s involvement in Sudan, traditionally focused on developing the oil industry, has diminished since the south’s secession.
A second scenario might involve the president’s removal by elements within his own security forces, particularly if protests continue to spread and Bashir still refuses to step down. This scenario might arise if protests grow in force, the economic crisis deepens and the situation threatens the survival of not only Bashir but also other top officials. Still, given Bashir’s repeated reshuffles of leadership positions in the security agencies, such a scenario could provoke infighting among security factions to determine the succession of leadership.
For now, however, a successful coup appears a remote prospect. It is unclear that any figure could unite the factionalised security sector behind such a move. True, the military so far has shown less appetite to confront protesters than it has in the past. Some evidence suggests soldiers share protesters’ frustration over grim economic conditions.[fn]Crisis Group interviews, security officials, Khartoum, January 2019.Hide FootnoteBut no evidence suggests Bashir’s ouster is imminent. Senior generals issued a statement backing the president a few days after the protests kicked off in response to reports of divisions within their ranks.[fn]“Sudan’s military pledges to stand by embattled president”,Washington Post,23 December 2018.Hide FootnoteMany have engaged in war crimes and serious corruption themselves and worry about retribution were Bashir gone. Senior officials also express concern about the potential revival of insurgencies in Darfur were Bashir to depart.[fn]Crisis Group interview, Sudanese security official, Khartoum, December 2018.Hide Footnote
Bashir reportedly trusts his intelligence services, key members of which hail from his own riverine ethnic group, more than he does the army, which recruits from a wider pool and whose loyalty is more ambiguous. Salah Gosh, the National Intelligence and Security Services (NISS) chief, now seen as the second most powerful man in the country, was accused of coup-plotting in 2012, and spent six months in prison. But after Bashir restored him as security chief in February 2018, he played a key role in purging anti-Bashir elements from the NCP and NISS in 2018 and is likelier to be a central figure in suppressing protesters than taking up their cause.[fn]“Sudanese president replaces security and intelligence chief”, Reuters, 11 February 2018; Crisis Group interviews, Sudanese political analysts and journalists, Khartoum, February 2018.Hide Footnote
Nor do leaders of other security agencies appear inclined to make such a move. On 25 December, chief of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) – a pro-government militia recruited mainly from the Darfur and Kordofan regions – Mohamed Hamdan Daglo “Hametti” made a speech in Khartoum state to a unit recently arrived from North Darfur, in which he urged the government to provide more services to the people.[fn]“Bashir haemorrhaging domestic support as Sudanese protests rage”,Middle East Eye,28 December 2018.Hide FootnoteThough his statement received wide attention and seemed an implicit criticism of the government, he has shown no sign of acting against Bashir.[fn]Sudan has sent thousands of RSF fighters to fight with the Saudi-led alliance in Yemen. Recent reports suggest that RSF soldiers are deployed in the most bitterly contested front lines and taken substantial casualties, breeding discontent. Crisis Group phone interview, Sudan analyst, December 2018; “On the front line of the Saudi war in Yemen: Child soldiers from Darfur”,New York Times, 28 December 2018.Hide FootnoteIn any case, while the RSF are a major element of the security architecture, they remain mobile and relatively lightly armed, accustomed to counterinsurgency campaigns in Darfur. Those forces are not strong enough to take on the Sudanese army, assuming it remains loyal to Bashir.
A third and optimal scenario would see the president resigning or pledging not to contest the 2020 election, with the encouragement and pressure of allies within the ruling party or security agencies and foreign governments. Bashir’s decision to seek another term had already divided the NCP and provoked some consternation within elements of the security services; this latest wave of protests has left him further weakened.[fn]Crisis Group telephone interview, Sudan analyst, December 2018.Hide FootnoteDissenters within the party, or those sidelined by the president, view him and his style of government – decision-making concentrated in the presidential palace and a small circle of advisors, with technocratic ministers marginalised – as a liability.[fn]Crisis Group interview, former senior Sudanese government official, Khartoum, June 2018. The official said he was fed up with Bashir’s heavy-handed rule. He said Bashir made all key decisions and was mercurial and erratic, rendering it impossible to conduct government business in a professional manner.Hide FootnoteA negotiated transition, in which Bashir himself agreed to hand over power to a new government, potentially including moderate NCP and military figures, would be the best way out of the crisis. It could set the country on a path to receiving emergency aid and undertaking necessary reforms to end repeated cycles of conflict.
The odds of Bashir taking this route also appear slim. Nothing in his track record suggests he will give up power easily; the recent moves to amend the constitution and remove term limits suggest he already is manoeuvring to retain power beyond 2020. Moreover, he has strong incentives to hold on. Out of power, he would likely fear for his safety, whether at home or living in asylum in a friendly country. He could orchestrate a handover to a loyal general, but he and his family would still risk facing accountability for corruption or other crimes. His ICC indictment for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes in Darfur narrows his options for seeking refuge abroad. Those Gulf countries that would be his most probable hosts, chiefly Saudi Arabia, are not parties to the Rome Statute. But settling there would still be a gamble for Bashir, as any shift in geopolitical winds or his host country’s domestic policy might leave him exposed to international justice.[fn]If Bashir stays in Sudan at the end of a transition process, he would still fear facing Slobodan Milošević’s fate, betrayal by successors and being handed over to international jurisdiction. If he goes to a country not party to the ICC, he would fear changed circumstances that might eventually result in his delivery to an international court as occurred with Charles Taylor. Taylor reportedly received international guarantees that he would avoid prosecution before his resignation as Liberian President in August 2003. In March 2006, reportedly under U.S. pressure, Nigerian authorities, who had granted Taylor exile, arrested and extradited him to Liberia, where he was handed over to the Special Court for Sierra Leone, an international tribunal.Hide Footnote
For Western and other outside powers, the immediate priority should be to avert further violence during protests. On 8 January, the Troika – the UK, Norway and the U.S. plus Canada – issued a strong statement demanding that Khartoum undertake political reform and warning that further indiscriminate violence against protesters would have consequences for future re-engagement between Sudan and the West. This was an encouraging first step. These parties should continue to press the Sudanese authorities to exercise restraint, release political prisoners and address the protesters’ legitimate demands. The U.S. should explicitly pin further sanctions relief on the government switching to a more measured response toward the protesters.
More broadly, outside actors should do everything in their power to improve prospects for a peaceful transition. The optimal scenario would be some form of negotiated exit whereby Bashir steps down and Sudanese elites form a government more open to political and economic reform and that has less troubled relationships with key outside powers.[fn]Crisis Group interview, western diplomats, Nairobi, December 2018.Hide FootnoteSuch a transition would open up the possibility of further re-engagement with the West and international financial institutions and could offer a lifeline to a population battered by the country’s economic decline. It might bring also benefits to non-Western powers. Many countries, including Gulf powers, eye Sudan’s agricultural potential and see the country as a potential bread basket, but are reluctant to invest given the volatility under Bashir. A fresh direction could improve prospects for investment and provide greater food security for those countries.
The UN Security Council might consider offering to defer Bashir’s prosecution at the ICC if he steps down (an idea Crisis Group initially floated in 2012).[fn]See, Crisis Group Africa Reports N°194,Sudan: Major Reform or More War,29 November 2012.Hide FootnoteProminent Sudanese businessman and philanthropist Mo Ibrahim, who has also called for Bashir to step down, has echoed this proposal.[fn]“ICC should drop charges against Bashir if he steps down”,Eye Witness News,11 January 2019. Mo Ibrahim is a member of Crisis Group’s Board of Trustees.Hide FootnoteA Security Council deferral would involve the Council requesting the ICC to put off investigation or prosecution of his case for one year, pursuant to the Rome Statute’s Article 16; the deferral could be extended provided Bashir stayed out of Sudanese politics.[fn]Article 16 of the Rome Statute governing the ICC specifies that the Security Council can pass a resolution under Chapter VII of the UN Charter to defer an investigation or prosecution for twelve months and can also choose to renew the deferral through the same process. See “Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court”, International Criminal Court, 17 July 1998.Hide FootnoteThere would clearly be enormous downsides to doing so – for justice in Sudan and potentially for the ICC itself. The Council would have to insist on some alternative form of accountability for atrocities in Darfur.[fn]In 2012, Crisis Group suggested that the UN Security Council engage with the African Union and the Arab League to strengthen domestic legal institutions’ capacity to act against atrocity crimes and so make ICC intervention less necessary under the complementarity principle. See, Crisis Group Africa Reports N°194,Sudan: Major Reform or More War, 29 November 2012.Hide FootnoteBut without a pledge along these lines, it appears highly improbable that Bashir will step aside willingly. Bashir himself has cast the ICC issue as a matter of national pride so a deferral would also be face-saving; sources close to the president suggest that even though the indictment has inhibited his travel less over the past few years than previously, he still views it as a major burden.[fn]According to one security official, one reason Bashir won’t step down is because he knows “the West is waiting for him”; in that sense some reassurance on the ICC would help. Crisis Group phone interview, security official in Khartoum, January 2019.Hide Footnote
In three decades at the helm in Sudan, President Omar al-Bashir has survived Khartoum’s internecine politics, repeated wars in Sudan’s peripheries, his country splitting in two after South Sudan’s secession, indictment by the ICC and frequently hostile neighbours in a particularly rough neighbourhood. He has held on despite repeated predictions of his demise; indeed, his political manoeuvres in Khartoum over the past few years have done much to shield him from potential contenders. Vesting too much hope in the president stepping down any time soon would fly in the face of this record.
Yet the president is running out of road. Unable to reverse the economic slide, he must rely on repression alone to contain a population increasingly enraged at deteriorating living conditions. But the harsher his repression, the more probable his relations with the West deteriorate again and the farther the funds necessary to turn around the economy slip from his reach. Bashir may well survive this round of protests. But if he does, it will almost certainly be at the cost of further economic decline, greater popular anger, more protests and even tougher crackdowns. At some point, his departure appears inevitable. Outside powers should do everything possible to prevent violence in the meantime, work for as smooth a transition as possible and find him an exit.
Nairobi/Brussels, 14 January 2019


Receive the best source of conflict analysis right in your inbox.
© 2024Crisis Group
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Review ourprivacy policyfor more details.

Title: Government announces first post-Bashir budget to repair Sudan's finances - Sudan Tribune
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
December 27, 2019 (KHARTOUM) – The Sudanese Council of Ministers on Friday approved the 2020 budget, which includes a progressive liberalization of fuel prices but continues to subsidize wheat and cooking gas, as part of its drive to repair public finances.
Al-Badawi presents his 2020 budget wearing Sudanese traditional dress on 27 Dec 2019 (SUNA photo)After over-7 hours meeting, Finance Minister Ibrahim al-Badawi announced that his draft budget 2020 was approved by the cabinet, and will be discussed with the Central Council for the coalition of Forces for Freedom and Change (FFC).
He further added that following the discussions with the FFC, the joint meeting of the cabinet and the Sovereign Council will deliberate on it as the parliament before to be voted endorsed as a law.
In his press conference, the minister did not reveal the total figures of the budget, saying that they are preliminary and subject to modifications.
He said that the first budget under the post-al-Bashir area includes positive changes, citing doubling spending on health and education, preventing the imposition of any school fees, providing a free school meal for pupils in the country. Also, the budget guarantees free hospital treatment and increases salaries by 100%.
On for the fuel prices, al-Badawi said that the cabinet authorized the lifting of subsidies in principle without elaborating.
“A programme has been included that to continue to subsidise wheat and cooking gas subsidies, while fuel subsidies will be gradually lifted,” he further said.
The cash-strapped East African country is under pressure from the International Monetary Fund (IMF)  and the World Bank to cut spending and reform subsidies.
On 23 December, the IMF released a statement called on the Sudanese government to implement critical reforms to address major macro imbalances and create the conditions for sustained inclusive growth.
“However, the challenges facing the new government are daunting. The economy is shrinking, fiscal and external imbalances are large, inflation is high, the currency is overvalued, and competitiveness is weak,” said the IMF.
The IMF stressed that these bold and comprehensive reforms are needed to stabilize the economy and strengthen growth.
Further, to counter the negative impact on the poor Sudanese who represent 65% of the population the international financial organisation propose to expand a social safety net.
The minister revealed the implementation of a pilot programme for direct cash transfer of 1,500 pounds per family every month.  During the first phase, about four million persons(900,000 families)  form the whole country will benefit from this programme, “according to available resources”
He said that the experimental programme of cash transfer will be developed into a programme for basic income under the supervision of a national commission to cover between 60% to 80% of the population during the transitional period.
The government will also increase the umbrella of the direct cash guarantee program for the university student by and the total number of those benefiting from this programme will be at 300,000 students.
He said that the experimental programme of cash transfer will be developed into a programme for basic income under the supervision of a national commission to cover between 60% to 80% of the population during the transitional period.
The government will also increase the umbrella of the direct cash guarantee program for the university student by and the total number of those benefiting from this programme will be at 300,000 students.
In the same vein, the government will expand the umbrella of health insurance for poor families estimated at 4 million and 900 thousand families.
Al-Badawi disclosed that 7% of the 2020 budget will be allocated to the war-affected regions for development programs.
The information minister and government spokesman Faisal Mohamed Saleh said that the budget was the first in the history of Sudan to be prepared and discussed in total transparency.
He was referring to the different debates and criticisms directed against the approach chosen by al-Badawi which is in line with the receipts designed by the international financial institutions.
The Forces for Freedom and Change on Wednesday rejected the draft budget.
The leader of the Sudanese Congress Party Omer al-Digair on Friday said that the IMF receipt – based on the lifting of subsidies and liberalizing the exchange rate – had been already tried elsewhere and failed.
Sudanese government bets on the country’s delisting from the state sponsors of terrorism list which blocks the foreign debt relief and the clearance of debt arrears.
‘”The large external debt and arrears hinder access to external financing and weigh heavily on development,” said the IMF on 23 December.
(ST)
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Copyright @ 2024 | Sudan Tribune. All rights reserved.