Title: Former Darfur Janjaweed leader faces court martial in Sudan
ASudanesemilitary court on Tuesday resumed proceedings against the former leader of the notorious Janjaweed militias accused of war crimes and genocide in the Darfur conflict.
The Revolutionary Awakening Council (RAC), founded by former Janjaweed chief Musa Hilal, has slammed the military trial.
The RAC alleges thatHilaland dozens of his followers are held as political prisoners and should not be subject to court martial.
The council also claims Hilal's continued detention points to the continued influence of members of ousted President Omar al-Bashir's regime.
The trial "opens the door to ask whether the regime has fallen entirely or not", the RAC said in a statement according toRadio Dabanga.
Supporters of the former Janjaweed leader organised a rally in his stronghold of Misteryia in northern Darfur last week,demandinghis release.
Who is Musa Hilal?
Hilal wasarrestedin 2017 after failing to comply with a disarmament initiative launched by Bashir's regime.
The charges laid against Hilal are in reality more complex.
While the Darfur tribal chief is widely acknowledged to have taken a leading role in the formation of theJanjaweedmilitias and their subsequent atrocities, none of that could have happened without the backing of the central government helmed by the former dictator.
Hilal was released from prison in 2003, ostensibly to mobilise Arab tribes in the Darfur region against rebel insurgents who accused the government of oppressing non-Arabs.
The Janjaweed instead targeted African-origin Darfuris in an ethnic cleansing campaign that left hundreds of thousands of civilians dead and saw Bashir indicted for war crimes,genocideand crimes against humanity by the International Criminal Court (ICC).
Hilal was also a one-time presidential advisor to the deposed dictator.
But as the Janjaweed chief began to fall out with Bashir - leading to clashes between theSudanese militaryand his forces after Hilal quit the ruling party - the star of another Janjweed leader rose.Gold minesFormer Janjaweed commander Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo, better known by his nickname Hemedti, gained influence in 2013 when he was appointed head of theRapid Support Forces(RSF).
The RSF is a paramilitary force consisting of former Janjaweed militia members.
Hemedticame into conflict with Hilal over lucrative gold mines located in northern Darfur.
After Hilal split from the ruling National Congress Party and formed the RAC, his forces took control of the gold mines in Jabal Amr.
The RAC leader ultimately fell foul of the regime in 2017, when he was arrested in a power grab some analysts allege was engineered by Hemedti.
Hilal was ostensibly arrested for failing to comply with aKhartoum-launchedinitiative to have residents of Darfur and South Kordofan handover unauthorised weapons and vehicles to the RSF.
The RSF chief seized the Jabal Amr gold mines from Hilal's forces upon his arrest, making him one of Sudan's wealthiest men.
Hemedti's forces have become the nation's mostinfluential.
His RSF troops have variously served as an EU-funded border force in Sudan and as partners in the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen. They have also been accused of violating the rights of civilians in Sudan's conflict zonesDarfur, Blue Nile and South Kordofan.
Hemedti took a leading role when the armed forces overthrew Bashir in April this year.
His forces are widely accused of responsibility for thekillingof more than 150 protesters since April, when the RSF chief became deputy leader of the transitional military council.

Title: Sudanese villagers battle to save environment from gold miners and militias | Middle East Eye
Militia-backed gold mining companies that have operated unregulated in Sudan's conflict zones are facing a battle with local residents angered by the environmental damage caused by chemicals used to extract the gold.
For three weeks, residents of Talodi and Kalogi in the Nuba mountains, the heart of one of Sudan's most violent conflicts, have held protests demanding gold mines in the area are closed.
Since 5 September, locals have been holding a sit-in outside a gold-mining factory they demand is closed because of its use of cyanide as a crude method of extracting gold.
The protest was backed by the Sudanese Professionals Association (SPA), which became an organising force in nationwide protests that toppled three-decade ruler Omar al-Bashir earlier this year.
"Local citizens have been struggling for three years against the use of this deadly material," theSPA said in a statement announcing the strike.
The local resistance committee, part of a nationwide network of activist groups, then announced a civil disobedience campaign on 9 September.
A call for civil disobedience in Talodi and surrounding areas posted on 9 September
Since then, similar sit-ins have been started in other areas affected by cyanide gold mining,including Sudan's northern state, Amsterdam-based Sudanese broadcaster Radio Dabanga reported.
On Thursday, a similar type of crude mine collapsed in Chad, killing around 30 workers, the AFP news agency reported.
The protesters have also called for the gold mines to be cleared of fighters from the Rapid Support Forces paramilitary headed by Mohammed Hamdan Dagolo, known as Hemeti, who became one of Sudan's most powerful figures in the aftermath of Bashir's fall.
According to Human Rights and Development Organization (HUDO), a Sudanese NGO, Hemeti took ownership of the mines in Talodi through his Al Juneidi company.
The same company has been accused of unregulated exports of gold to the United Arab Emirates from gold mines that Hemeti seized control of in 2017 in Darfur, the western Sudanese region where his forces and associated militia known as the Janjaweed have been accused of genocide.
Twelve people were killed by security forcesat a gold mine near Talodi in April, according to the UN, and the heavy RSF presence has been blamed for increasing tensions with the local community.
The crude extraction of gold used in many of Sudan's mining operations involves excavating land andseparating gold from the soil using mercury and cyanide.
Sudanese activistsSudan Democracy Firsthave claimed that this process results in serious environmental damage because companies then dump the waste chemicals.
Local communities say the mining operations havecaused an increase in health problemsas well as damage to the environment.
A 2018aid agency assessmentof conditions for the tens of thousands of displaced people near Talodi warned that boreholes and human waste, including decaying bodies left behind at the mining sites, cause pollution of water sources during the rainy season.
Sudanese civil society group Gidaam announced a protest in three Nuba towns on Thursday calling for the removal of the South Kordofan governor.
"A march of millions will be launched in three towns to overthrow the governor who collaborates with the owners of the factories and gold-mining companies, who belong to the old regime," Gidaam said in a statement.
According to HUDO, the governor issued an order, which has not been heeded by the RSF, forgold mining operations to be halted.
HUDO also claimed that mining permits were previously issued in Talodi by a former governor who is now an RSF commander.
Control of gold, which is often sold to the government and then exported to the Gulf, has been seen as increasingly desirable for businesses and militias in Sudan since the secession of South Sudan in 2011 slashed the majority of Sudan's oil output.
The UN estimates that from 2010 to 2014,$4.6bn worth of gold was illegally exported to the UAE from Sudan.
Copyright © 2014 - 2023.Middle East Eye. All rights reserved.Only England and Wales jurisdiction apply in all legal matters.
Middle East Eye          ISSN 2634-2456

Title: Sudan Prime Minister to Probe Brutal June Sit-in Massacre | Al Bawaba
Sudanese Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok on Sunday announced the launch of an independent investigation into the violent dispersal of a mass sit-in in June that killed more than a hundred protesters.
The 3 June massacre threatened to derail gains made by the pro-democracy demonstators since the ousting of former President Omar al-Bashir and highlighted the controversial role of the country's paramilitary forces.
Protest leaders had from the outset insisted on an independent probe in the brutal dispersal of a weeks-long sit-in in the capital Khartoum, but Sudan's leading generals forced an investigation by public prosecutors.
That investigation determined that the transitional military council - Sudan's ruling body before a landmark power-sharing deal was inked last month - had not ordered the killings, instead blaming the violence on paramilitary troops who had exceeded their orders.
Protesters also blame the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) for leading the sit-in dispersal, but argue the troops were following the orders of their commander Mohammad Hamdan Dagalo, then the country's deputy leader and now a member of Sudan's sovereign transitional council.
Among the key aims stipulated by protest leaders for the new transitional government is to prosecute those responsible for the killing of demonstrators since protests began in December last year.
Hamdok on Sunday said the new investigation would aim to complete its work within six months, the Associated Press reported.
The probe will be led by a seven-member committee that includes a top judge, an independent figure and two attorneys.
Sudan's justice, defence and interior ministries will also be represented in the investigation.
While the justice ministry is headed by Nasr al-Din Abd al-Barri, a civilian nominated by protest leaders, the interior and defense ministries are headed by Idris al-Taifi and Lieutenant General Jamal Omar, both selected by the generals.
{"preview_thumbnail":"https://cdn.flowplayer.com/6684a05f-6468-4ecd-87d5-a748773282a3/i/v-i-5…","video_id":"568053db-f56d-4bc8-8871-da0ae05d7131","player_id":"8ca46225-42a2-4245-9c20-7850ae937431","provider":"flowplayer","video":"Mass Anti Sisi Protests Continue for the Second Night in Egypt"}
The prime minister, currently in New York for the United Nations General Assembly, added that Sudan could seek assistance from the African Union if needed.
At least 128 people were killed in the massacre, according to the pro-democracy Central Commitee for Sudanese Doctors (CCSD).
Demonstrators also allege that paramilitary troops took part in widespread looting and raped dozens of men and women at the protest site outside the military headquarters, where hundreds of thousands gathered for the first time on 6 April urging the military to stand with them against Bashir.
The mass sit-in then continued for weeks after the military took power in a coup as demonstrators urged a civilian-led transition.
The massacre temporarily halted the negotiations between the generals and protest leaders that eventually led to the ruling joint military-civilian sovereign council.
It is unclear how Hamdok's government will hold the RSF and its commander to account if the paramilitary forces are found responsible for the killings.
The RSF is an officialised offshoot of the Janjaweed militias, widely accused of war crimes and genocide in the Darfur conflict.
The paramilitary forces, led by sovereign council member Dagalo, are also accused of rights violations against civilians in Sudan's Blue Nile and South Kordofan conflict zones.
This article has been adapted from its original source.
ViaSyndiGate.info
Copyright @ 2022 The New Arab.
Subscribe to our newsletter for exclusive updates and enhanced content
Subscribe


Title: Sudan in transition: Darfur refugees dream of return | Qantara.de
Military and pro-democracy leaders signed a power-sharing agreement in August paving the way for a promised democratic transition after 30 years of authoritarian rule in Sudan. But refugees who fled genocidal violence in Darfur are expressing their reservations about the deal. Marta Vidal met them in Amman, Jordan
When Ahmed Yusuf Ahmed heard that Omar al-Bashir had been overthrown he was initially exultant. "I thought it was the best news I had heard in my life," says Ahmed, who fled his native Darfur in 2003.
Sudan has been in a state of political unrest since protests triggered by an economic crisis started in December last year and spread across the country demanding an end to Bashir’s three decades of authoritarian rule. On 11 April, the military ousted al-Bashir and established a Transitional Military Council (TMC).
Ahmed was 16 years old when Janjaweed paramilitary forces hired by Bashir’s government to crush a local insurgency burned his village in the Karnoi area, killed his father and stole his family’s cattle. He lived in a refugee camp in Chad for 10 years, and then applied for asylum in Jordan, where – like most refugees who arenot allowed to work– he struggles to make ends meet.
According toUN estimates, Bashir’s counter-insurgency campaign in Darfur has killed at least 300 000 people and displaced over 2.7 million since 2003. For their alleged role in the atrocities, al-Bashir and other top officials have beenindictedfor genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity by the International Criminal Court between 2009 and 2010.
Muted reaction to Bashirʹs overthrow
Although Bashir’s fall was received with exhilaration, Ahmed was cautious. He knew the generals who removed him wereclosely associated with the old regime. The military council that took over was headed by lieutenant general Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, who was the military intelligence officer coordinating military actions in Darfurbetween 2003 and 2005. The council’s most prominent member was General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, widely known asHemeti, the leader of the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
Hemeti’s forceswere formally established by Bashir’s government in 2013, but grew out of the dreaded Janjaweed militias mobilised to fight against insurgencies in Darfur and other marginalised areas throughout Sudan in the early 2000s. RSF mercenaries havereceivedsupport from Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emiratesto fight in Yemenas part of the Saudi-led coalition, and have been deployed to repress demonstrations throughout Sudan to protect Bashir’s government.
After the establishment of the TMC, mass protests continued to demand a transition to civilian rule, forcing the military to enter negotiations with the main pro-democracy coalition. Talks weresuspendedseveral times and strained by a violent crackdown on 3 June which, according to the opposition-linked Doctors’ Central Committee, left128 people dead. But on 17 July, the military council and pro-democracy leaders announced they had reached a power-sharing deal amid growing pressure from the United States, the African Union and Arab allies.A month later, Sudan’s governing military council and pro-democracy leaderssigned the final power-sharing agreement. The two sides agreed on a constitutional declaration that established a joint civilian-military transitional council expected to take over in September and rule Sudan for the next three years until elections are held.
Donʹt trust the generals
The agreement prompted celebrations in the streets of Sudan’s capital Khartoum, which filled with music, honking car horns and fluttering Sudanese flags. But for the Darfuri refugees who fled violence and persecution, reactions were much more cautious and restrained.
The deal had been signed by generals who were involved in the brutal counter-insurgency campaign in Darfur. "Hemeti’s hands are full of blood," says Ahmed, who thinks the general should be charged for alleged crimes in Darfur, as well as for violence used against protesters. For refugees, the brutal crackdown on 3 June proved these generals cannot be trusted to uphold any kind of agreement.
Although no charges have yet been brought againstMohamed Hamdan "Hemeti" Dagolo,rights groups have denounced serious human rights abuses committed by his forces. A Human Rights Watchreportpublished in 2015 described the RSF as "men with no mercy", and accused the forces led by Hemeti of repeatedly attacking villages, burning and looting homes, and beating, raping and killing civilians in Darfur.
In June, Amnesty Internationalsaidthere was "disturbing new evidence" showing that the RSF and allied militias continue to commit serious human rights violations and war crimes in Darfur, which in the past year have included the "destruction of at least 45 villages, unlawful killings and sexual violence". Ongoing violence documented by rights organisations indicates it is still unsafe for refugees to return to Darfur.
The power-sharing deal wassignedby pro-democracy leader Ahmed al-Rabie and by Hemeti, who pledged to abide by its terms. But Darfuri refugees are very sceptical about the generals’ commitment to a transition to civilian rule. "I don’t believe the military council will ever give away their power. They are responsible for genocide. And if they left the government they would have to face justice," says Ahmed.
Immunity from prosecution
One of the most contentious issues in the power-sharing agreement was the possibility of giving military generals immunity from prosecution. The final deal established that their immunity could not be lifted without approval from the majority of legislators. For Ahmed, this means that justice and accountability for crimes committed in Darfur or against protesters cannot be ensured.
Since the old regime remains entrenched, refugees say it is still too risky for them to return to Sudan. "The National Intelligence and Security Services are still there, the RSF continue to act above the law, using lethal force, humiliating people," says Suliman Baldo, a senior researcher with theEnough Project.
With security forces and national intelligence still intact, anyone who sought asylum abroad might be vulnerable to arbitrary arrest upon return. In December 2015, Jordanian authorities rounded uphundreds of Sudanese refugeeswho took part in protests against what they saw as discrimination in provision of humanitarian assistance.
[embed:render:embedded:node:36368]Forced to board planes, hundreds were deported back to Sudan, where some wereallegedly arrestedand torturedupon arrival in Khartoum. For Baldo, this is a risk that refugees returning to Sudan will continue to face. "The system hasn’t changed. Those who persecuted them are still holding the stick, the whip and the gun against civilians in the country," he says.
Apart from concerns with safety, many Darfuri refugees say they have nothing to go back to. "I lost my house, my cattle, my land, everything I owned," says Abdul (*), a Darfuri refugee who spent several years in a camp for the internally displaced before seeking asylum in Jordan in 2010. "I lost my relatives as well. Who will bring them back?"
The issue of restitution
For refugees, one of the most pressing issues is restoration of lands seized by militias or left behind during the conflict and occupied by new settlers. "I don’t see how there can be restitution for the hundreds of thousands of farmsviolently appropriatedby militias, the RSF, the Janjaweed. How do you get those farms back to their rightful owners?" asks Eric Reeves, a senior fellow at Harvard University. "The situation in Darfur will not change any time soon. It’s a very long project of rebuilding and restitution," he adds.
For now, Darfuri refugees in Jordan say it is still too dangerous to return. Civil resistance brought down a dictator, but elements of the old regime have remained in power. Some of the generals now leading the sovereign council were involved in the atrocities that forced refugees to flee Darfur, and will continue to enjoy impunity.
"I dream of going back to Sudan," says Ahmed. "But knowing that the regime is still the same makes me think it won’t be possible in the near future."
Marta Vidal
© Qantara.de 2019
(*) Last name withheld to protect identity
Following weeks of unrest, the governing military council and protest movement in Sudan have reached agreement over a transitional administration. But scepticism remains over whether the military will actually cede power
In the struggle between demonstrators and the military for a civilian-led state, the successors to Darfur’s notorious Janjaweed militia could end up as the cats that got the cream. That the group is financed by autocratic Gulf states makes it even more suspect. Karim El-Gawhary reports from Khartoum
A watershed moment in Sudan: after 30 years of repression, a civilian-led government looks set to co-determine the country’s future path. It's quite a different picture in Algeria: here, the people have been demonstrating against the military for months, to no avail. By Khaled Salameh

Title: التغيير في السودان - سودان تربيون
سودان تربيون
أخبار السودان وتقارير حصرية لحظة بلحظة
سودان تربيون
أخبار السودان وتقارير حصرية لحظة بلحظة
بقلم معاوية يس
04 يناير 2011– على رغم شدة الأزمة السودانية، وتسارع مؤشرات انقسام الصف الوطني، قررت حكومة محفل الإسلام المسيَّس استخدام أسلحة الاستغفال الشامل ضد أبناء السودان، حتى يمر عار تقسيم السودان، ويبتلعوا قرار المحفل الحاكم وقف التفاوض مع ثوار دارفور، لمصلحة حل أمني عسكري يعتقد حكام الخرطوم أن الظروف الدولية مواتية لتمريره. في عز الاضطراب الذي سببته حتمية انفصال جنوب السودان، عمد محفل الخرطوم إلى إلهاء الشعب بمهرجان أماسي الخرطوم الموسيقية. حفلات غنائية ساهرة على مدى 13 يوماً.
والأنكى من ذلك التوسّع في إشاعة التشكيك في إمكان إيجاد بديل من نظام الإسلام المسيَّس لتثبيط همم الدعاة إلى إطاحة هذه الحكومة التي لم تفلح في شيء سوى الكذب على العقول، واللعب على «الدقون»، والتذاكي على المجتمعين الدولي والإقليمي. وتمت زيادة جرعة التشكيك بالتركيز على سؤال افتراضي: إذا أطحنا بهذه الحكومة فمن يمكنه أن يقود التغيير؟ وهو سؤال غريب، لأن من سألوه وأوحوا لجماعتهم بإشاعته يريدون لمن يطرحونه عليهم أن يردوا بالإساءة لقادة العمل الحزبي والنقابي والطلابي في البلاد، حتى تتعمّق الشروخ بين الفصائل السياسية السودانية، وتتضاءل الثقة فيمن يمكن أن يهدي الجماهير إلى نظام الدين فيه لله والوطن لجميع السودانيين، والمناصب في حكومته ودواوينه لشرفاء ذمة مؤتمنين على حياة المواطنين ومال الدولة ووحدة التراب.
وهو سؤال غريب لأن السودانيين حين انتفضوا ضد نظام الفريق إبراهيم عبود في عام 1964 لم يكونوا يعرفون شيئاً عن شخصية مدير التعليم في جنوب السودان الذي اختارته الفصائل الثائرة رئيساً لمجلس الوزراء الانتقالي، وهو سر الختم الخليفة – رحمه الله – وعندما هبّت جحافلهم في شوارع الخرطوم لإسقاط نظام المشير جعفر نميري في 1985، لم تكن غالبيتهم تعرف شيئاً عن قائد حكومة الثورة رئيس الوزراء الانتقالي الدكتور الجزولي دفع الله.
يعتقد مساعد الرئيس السوداني الدكتور نافع علي نافع الذي يعدّ زعيم المحفل الخماسي الذي يختطف الحكم ومصائر العباد بأن حكومتهم لن تسقط إلا إذا كان هناك رجال أشداء ومدججون قادرون على إلحاق الهزيمة بها وإرغامها على التنحي. وهو منطق مجانين، إذ إن كثيراً من السودانيين حملوا تهديداته على محمل الجد، وبدأوا يستعدون للبذل والفداء والتضحية بالأنفس، في سبيل وطن معافى من الأمراض التي غرسها فيه نظام الجبهة المتأسلمة التي لم تعد تجد من يتبرع بكلمة للدفاع عن مخازيها سوى «الحلاقيم» المأجورة التي اعتدنا سماعها ومشاهدتها على الفضائيات تردد الأكاذيب والأباطيل والحجج الخائبة التي تزيد السودانيين مقتاً للمحفل ورؤوسه الشريرة.
وكان تخبّط قادة المحفل في التصريحات المتضاربة والتهديدات الجوفاء في الآونة الأخيرة أبلغ دليل على انفراط عقد النظام وضعفه وخوره.
ففي ما يتحدث المشير عمر البشير في شأن فرض الهوية العربية، والشريعة المسيَّسة، واعتماد العربية لساناً أوحد للعجم والرطَّانة الذين أهم أصل بلاد السودان وأهلها الحقيقيون، يعود بعد يومين ليستغفل الشعب باقتراح حكومة ذات قاعدة عريضة، يتنادى السياسيون من الألوان كافة للمشاركة في مناصبها، ليعملوا موظفين تحت رئاسة المحفل المتأسلم ذي الفكر المتطرف. بينما يتحدث نائبه علي عثمان، عبقري اتفاق السلام الذي وقّعه وهو منحنٍ للعصا الأميركية متنازلاً عن الأرض والثروة والسيادة، عن ترتيبات أبعد مدى من «حكومة قومية».
ماذا يريد هؤلاء المتأسلمون ليكون وقوداً جديداً لأكاذيبهم وحيلهم للهيمنة على دولة الشمال التي تنتاشها الثورات المسلحة غرباً وجنوباً وشمالاً؟ إنهم يريدون أن يحكموا فقط. كيف؟ لا يهمهم في شيء. لقد استعدوا لأي ثورة شعبية محتملة بميليشيات خاصة، وباستدعاء شذاذ الآفاق من عناصر «القاعدة» و«حماس» و«الجهاد»، معتقدين بأنهم بذلك ليسوا في منعة من الغضبات الشعبية، بل سيناطحون القوى الكبرى، بما فيها الولايات المتحدة ومصر. مجرد أوهام وأضغاث أحلام، إذ إن حكومة المحفل ارتعدت منها الفرائص يوم فوجئت بدخول قوات حركة العدل والمساواة مدينة أم درمان في عام 2008، من دون أن تكتشف أجهزة الرادار وطائرات الاستطلاع من دون طيار زحفها من الحدود مع تشاد إلى أبواب العاصمة الوطنية السودانية.
وإذا كان ثمة ما يمكن أن تستحق به إزجاء الشكر، فإن حكومة المحفل تُشكر على جمع خصومها صفاً واحداً ضدها. فهي تعتقد أنها الرابح الأوحد من التلاعب بالكيانات السياسية والمهنية. لكنها اكتشفت بعد فوات الأوان أنها وحّدت بين السودانيين الذين جمع بينهم كرههم لها، ونفورهم من دينها المزيّف، وشعاراتها المخادعة.
سيجمعنا – نحن معشر السودانيين – خِلْفُنا وشقاقاتنا. هكذا ظللنا على الدوام، نتفرق ونتشظى، نأتلف ونختلف. لكننا نلتقي على ما فينا من نقائض، بعدما ينجح عدونا في حصد عداوة جميع فئاتنا. تلك هي حالنا. بل كان الانقسام ديدن موقفنا حتى حين تدلهم الخطوب بالبلاد. حين دخلت قوات الغزو البريطاني المصري أم درمان، ودمّرت قبة قائد الثورة المهدية الإمام محمد أحمد المهدي، في أيلول (سبتمبر) 1898، لم يكن الشارع الأمدرماني ولا السوداني كله من نصراء الحكومة الوطنية التي سحقها الغزو بوحشية.
ويوم اشتد ساعد الحركة الوطنية، ونشأت الأحزاب السياسية، لم يتسنَّ تحقيق هدفها النهائي، وهو نيل الاستقلال، بعد سنة أو اثنتين أو عشر. وحين صحا السودانيون على انقلاب العام 1958، استغرقتهم خصوماتهم ست سنوات، قبل خروج الشارع في إجماع وطني نادر لإطاحة الحكم العسكري الأول.
إذاً لقد أوصلنا المحفل الفاشل إلى حيث تتضاءل الخلافات بين أحزابنا وكياناتنا المهنية والسياسية، وتكبر وتصبح عملاقة وحدتنا على هدف تغيير نريد له أن يكون أبيض. حزب الأمة لن يكون شيئاً غير حزب الأمة. والاتحاديون كذلك، والشيوعيون والمستقلون. لكن إنهاء نظام البشير هو الذي سيجمعهم ويوحّد كلمتهم. وبعد زواله سيكون ثمة متسع للاتفاق على دستور عادل، ونظام منصف، ولوائح للشفافية والنزاهة وعفة اليد، والترخيص لصحافة ليس همّها التسبيح باسم الحاكم وحاشيته.
من يقود التغيير؟ ليس مهماً، إذ إن «حواء والدة» في السودان الذي اختطفته ميليشيا الإسلام المسيَّس ونهب المال العام وتخويف الشعب بالعصا الأمنية وسلاح التجويع والفصل والتشريد وجلد الفتيات… «حواء والدة» وكل السودانيين إخوتك يا مريم الصادق المهدي.
الكاتب صحافي في جريدة الحياة اللندنية
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

جميع الحقوق محفوظة @ 2024  | سودان تريبيون

Title: North Darfur academics protest RSF homes near campus - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
On Wednesday, dozens of professors and staff at the University of El Fasher staged a protest in front of the university director’s office to demand stop the allocation of large areas of land near the campus to members of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) government militia.
On Wednesday, dozens of professors and staff at the University of El Fasher staged a protest in front of the university director’s office to demand stop the allocation of large areas of land near the campus to members of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) government militia.
Participants in the vigil condemned the continued silence of the government on this issue, calling on Acting Governor Malik Khojali to declare his clear and explicit position in the case.
One of the organisers of the vigil, who asked not to be named, told Darfur 24 that the university administration recently received a letter from the state’s Ministry of Urban Planning that 139 residential plots west of the university are to be given to members of the RSF.
He added that all professors and workers reject the measures. “These areas are extensions of the faculties of Resources, Animal Production, and Agriculture that belong to the university.”
The feared and notorious Rapid Support Forces (RSF) main government militia, under command of Lt Gen Mohamed Hamdan ‘Hemeti’, also a military member of Sudan’s Sovereign Council, is accused of widespread atrocities against civilians over many years.
In astatement by Amnesty Internationalcarried by Radio Dabanga last week, the international human rights organisation calls on the Khartoum government to withdraw the ‘trigger-happy’ paramilitaries from all law enforcement activities across the country.
Musa Hilal
On Wednesday, the people of Damrat El Sheikh Abdelbagi in Kutum locality in North Darfur organised a protest vigil to demand the release offormer janjaweed leader Musa Hilal, leader of the Revolutionary Awakening Council (RAC), and his sons and comrades, who have been held in an Omdurman prison for almost two years.
Participants in the vigil held pictures of the detainees and banners calling for their release and called on the Sovereign Council and Prime Minister Abdallah Hamdouk to release all political prisoners and detainees without any conditions as soon as possible.
They considered the failure to release the detainees a conspiracy aimed at isolating them from the political process now underway and appealed to the Forces for Freedom and Change to pressure their government to release the political prisoners and prisoners of war.
They also appealed to justice agencies and human rights organisations to pressure the interim government to release the detainees.
A similar demonstrations was held inMisteriya in North Darfuron Sunday, while RAC members detained in Omdurman prison – El Kheir Mohamed, Abdallah Adam, Mohamed Bakheet, Mohamed Yahya, Adam Yahya, Abdelrahim Salih, Ahmed Jibril, Abdu Ibrahim, Saeed Mousa, and Yahya Abakar – haveentered into a hunger striketo protest their continued detention, in spite of the fall of the Al Bashir regime in April.
RAC
The relationship between Hilal and Khartoum began in 2003. After Darfuri rebels took up arms against the government in February that year, Khartoum assigned Hilal, chief of the Arab Mahameed clan in North Darfur, as recruiter of militant Arab pastoralists (popularly calledjanjaweed) in Darfur.
With the full backing of the government, his militiamen targeted unarmed African Darfuri villagers, but they rarely came near forces of the rebel movements. In 2006, the UN Security Council imposedfinancial and travel sanctionson Hilal.
Hilal’sstance towards the ruling regimechanged over the years. Mid 2013, he returned from Khartoum to his base in North Darfur, where his fighters, mainly members of the paramilitary Border Guards, launched widespread attacks on government forces and allied militias.
In March 2014, he established the Revolutionary Awakening Council (RAC), consisting of native administration leaders and militants from various tribes in north-western Darfur, who profited from vast gold sales in Darfur, according to a UN Security Council reportin April 2016.
When the Sudanese government announced a nationwide disarmament campaign inJuly 2017, the RAC and Border Guardsopposed the measures.On November 26, a large force of RSF militiamen raided the stronghold of Hilal in North Darfur, arrested him and his entourage, and transferred themto Khartoum. Hilal’s trial began, secretly,on April 30, 2018.
Radio Dabanga’s editorial independence means that we can continue to provide factual updates about political developments to Sudanese and international actors, educate people about how to avoid outbreaks of infectious diseases, and provide a window to the world for those in all corners of Sudan.Support Radio Dabanga for as little as €2.50, the equivalent of a cup of coffee.


Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: Sudan's Bashir stashed millions in cash in secret room | Middle East Eye
Sudan's ousted ruler Omar al-Bashir held the only key to a room in the presidential palace he used to stash millions of euros, his last office manager testified on Saturday.
Speaking at Bashir's trial on charges of possessing illicit foreign currency and corruption, Yasser Basheer said the former president gave him more than euros 10m ($11m) in cash in his final months of rule for delivery to different parties.
Sudan's military overthrew Bashir in April after months of protests. His prosecution is a test of how far power-sharing military and civilian authorities will tackle the legacy of his 30-year authoritarian rule.
The former office manager, who worked for Bashir from September 2018 and was speaking as a defence witness, said the president once gave him euros 5m for Abdelrahim Hamdan Dagalo, deputy head of the feared paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
The money, Basheer said, was delivered in the presence of Abdelrahim's brother Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, the  RSF head known as Hemeti and one of the most powerful generals since Bashir's fall from power. He is now a member of the Sovereign Council formed in a military-civilian power-sharing deal.
Other recipients of cash included the defence ministry, plus military personnel and civilians for medical treatment, Basheer said, adding that he did not know the source of the cash and was only following orders.
Abdelmoneim Mohamed, an accountant at the International University of Africa, a private institution with links to Islamists, also testified in Bashir's defence. He said the university's director and deputy director received euros 4m in cash from Bashir.
Bashir sat in a metal cage in the courtroom wearing traditional white robes and turban.
Though he did not speak at Saturday's hearing, he denied the charges when formally indicted a week ago.
Speaking publicly for the first time since his ouster, Bashir said last week he had received $25m from Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, as well as from other sources, but had not received or used money for his own benefit.
"I used the money for private donations to various parties," including medical services, a university, an Islamic media channel, and urgent fuel provision, he said.
Millions of euros and Sudanese pounds were found at Bashir's residence in April, a judicial source said.
The charges carry maximum prison sentences of around 10 years. The next hearing is set for 14 September.
The International Criminal Court in The Hague issued arrest warrants against him in 2009 and 2010 on charges of war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide in Sudan's Darfur region.
Middle East Eye reported last week that the ICC is planning to submit a new request for Bashir to be handed over for trial, encouraged by the current corruption proceedings.
Many in Sudan believe, however, that the current cases are cosmetic and are preparing to lodge more serious charges, including the toppling of the democratically elected government in 1989, much larger cases of corruption, and the deaths of protesters on earlier occasions.
The Alliance of Sudanese Lawyers has vowed to collect and submit hundreds of cases against Bashir.
Those cases include alleged atrocities in war zones, the killing of protesters and other civilians, missing persons, and concerning the thousands of people dismissed from their jobs for political reasons.
Copyright © 2014 - 2023.Middle East Eye. All rights reserved.Only England and Wales jurisdiction apply in all legal matters.
Middle East Eye          ISSN 2634-2456

Title: Asile et migration - Au Soudan, 138 Africains arrêtés pour tentative d'entrée "illégale" en Libye | RTL Info
(Belga) Une force paramilitaire soudanaise a annoncé mercredi avoir arrêté 138 Africains, dont des dizaines de Soudanais, qui tentaient de se rendre "illégalement" en Libye voisine.
Les Forces de soutien rapide (RSF) ont indiqué que des Tchadiens et des Ethiopiens faisaient également partie des personnes arrêtées dans le désert aux confins du Soudan, du Tchad et de la Libye. "Le 19 septembre, une patrouille des RSF a arrêté 138 personnes de différentes nationalités qui essayaient de traverser illégalement la frontière avec la Libye", ont-elles dit. Mercredi, les RSF ont escorté des journalistes dans la zone désertique de Gouz Abudloaa, à quelque 100 km au nord de Khartoum, où certains de ces Africains étaient détenus, selon un correspondant de l'AFP. Les RSF ont également indiqué dans le communiqué avoir saisi six véhicules appartenant aux passeurs libyens qui transportaient les migrants. Ces dernières années, des membres des RSF, qui ont été accusés par le passé de violations des droits humains dans la région soudanaise du Darfour (ouest), ont été déployés le long de la frontière avec la Libye pour empêcher le passage clandestin de migrants. Le Soudan est un carrefour clé pour les routes migratoires à destination de l'Europe. A partir de ce pays, les migrants rejoignent la Libye ou l'Egypte, d'où ils entrent en contact avec des passeurs qui les entassent sur des embarcations de fortune avant une périlleuse traversée en mer Méditerranée, en direction de l'Europe. (Belga)
Connectez-vous à votre compte RTL pour interagir.
Vous souhaitez nous envoyer une information?
Utilisezle formulaire de contactpour nous envoyer vos
        scoops!

Title: Actualités SOUDAN :: Soudan : 138 Africains arrêtés pour tentative d'entrée "illégale" en Libye :: SUDAN News
Une force paramilitaire soudanaise a annoncé mercredi avoir arrêté 138 Africains, dont des dizaines de Soudanais, qui tentaient de se rendre “illégalement” en Libye voisine.
Dans un communiqué, les Forces de soutien rapide (RSF) ont indiqué que des Tchadiens et des Ethiopiens faisaient également partie des personnes arrêtées dans le désert aux confins du Soudan, du Tchad et de la Libye.
“Le 19 septembre, une patrouille des RSF a arrêté 138 personnes de différentes nationalités qui essayaient de traverser illégalement la frontière avec la Libye”, ont-elles dit.Mercredi, les RSF ont escorté des journalistes dans la zone désertique de Gouz Abudloaa, à quelque 100 km au nord de Khartoum, où certains de ces Africains étaient détenus, selon un correspondant de l’AFP.
Les RSF ont également indiqué dans le communiqué avoir saisi six véhicules appartenant aux passeurs libyens qui transportaient les migrants.
Ces dernières années, des membres des RSF, qui ont été accusés par le passé de violations des droits humains dans la région soudanaise du Darfour (ouest), ont été déployés le long de la frontière avec la Libye pour empêcher le passage clandestin de migrants.
Le Soudan est un carrefour clé pour les routes migratoires à destination de l’Europe.
A partir de ce pays, les migrants rejoignent la Libye ou l’Egypte, d’où ils entrent en contact avec des passeurs qui les entassent sur des embarcations de fortune avant une périlleuse traversée en mer Méditerranée, en direction de l’Europe.

Title: Soudan: 138 Africains arrêtés pour tentative d'entrée «illégale» en Libye
Rubriques et services du Figaro
Le Figaro
Rubriques et services du Figaro
Nos journaux et magazines
Les sites du Groupe Figaro
Une force paramilitaire soudanaise a annoncé mercredi 25 septembre avoir arrêté 138 Africains, dont des dizaines de Soudanais, qui tentaient de se rendre «illégalement» en Libye voisine.
À lire aussiGrèce: à Lesbos, les migrants ont supplanté les touristes
Dans un communiqué, les Forces de soutien rapide (RSF) ont indiqué que des Tchadiens et des Éthiopiens faisaient également partie des personnes arrêtées dans le désert aux confins du Soudan, du Tchad et de la Libye. «Le 19 septembre, une patrouille des RSF a arrêté 138 personnes de différentes nationalités qui essayaient de traverser illégalement la frontière avec la Libye», ont-elles dit. Mercredi, les RSF ont escorté des journalistes dans la zone désertique de Gouz Abudloaa, à quelque 100 km au nord de Khartoum, où certains de ces Africains étaient détenus. Les RSF ont également indiqué dans le communiqué avoir saisi six véhicules appartenant aux passeurs libyens qui transportaient les migrants.
Ces dernières années, des membres des RSF, qui ont été accusés par le passé de violations des droits humains dans la région soudanaise du Darfour (ouest), ont été déployés le long de la frontière avec la Libye pour empêcher le passage clandestin de migrants. Le Soudan est un carrefour clé pour les routes migratoires à destination de l'Europe. A partir de ce pays, les migrants rejoignent la Libye ou l'Egypte, d'où ils entrent en contact avec des passeurs qui les entassent sur des embarcations de fortune avant une périlleuse traversée en mer Méditerranée, en direction de l'Europe.
À lire aussiTrafic de migrants vers le Royaume-Uni : 23 arrestations
Soudan: 138 Africains arrêtés pour tentative d'entrée «illégale» en Libye
Partager via :
Plus d'options
Les envoyés du mouvement palestinien ont réitéré leur demande d’«un cessez-le-feu complet» et d’un «retrait des troupes israéliennes» avant de quitter l’Égypte. Peu de temps après, la branche armée du Hamas a revendiqué le tir d'une roquette sur Tel-Aviv.
VIDÉO -Une vidéo publiée ce lundi sur le canal Telegram russe Mash montre un drone qui s’écrase contre un immeuble résidentiel de grande hauteur dans la ville de Saratov.
Un séisme de magnitude 5,3 sur l'échelle de Richter a touché le Portugal lundi à l'aube, sans faire…
À tout moment, vous pouvez modifier vos choix via le bouton “paramétrer les cookies” en bas de page.
Le Figaro
Les articles en illimité à partir de 0,99€ sans engagement

Title: The Boston Globe
Digital Access
Home Delivery
Gift Subscriptions
Log In
Manage My Account
Customer Service
Delivery Issues
Feedback
Help & FAQs
Staff List
Advertise
Newsletters
View the ePaper
Order Back Issues
News in Education
Search the Archives
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Terms of Purchase
Contact
Work at Boston Globe Media
Internship Program
Co-op Program
Do Not Sell My Personal Information

Title: A Troubled Road Ahead: 'Power-Sharing' and What It Means For the Future of Sudan | The Washington Institute
Mohammed Soliman is a Huffington Fellow at the Georgetown University’s Institute for the Study of Diplomacy, where he focuses on US strategy in the Middle East. He appears frequently on television interviews to provide expert commentary on unfolding current events in the Middle East. Soliman has published in several media outlets, including Foreign Affairs, ​Open Democracy and La Stampa, as well as analysis for the Middle East Institute.
Following months of unrest and bloodshed in the Sudanese streets, a critical power-sharing agreement wassignedon August 17 between the Transitional Military Council (TMC) and the civilian opposition alliance–better known as the Forces of Freedom and Change (FFC). The agreement has established a transitional council with 6 civilian and5 military leaders, who will rotate the leadership of the council during the transitional period. The military will run the transitional council for21 monthsand the FFC will run it for the following 18 months. This agreement will allow the FFC to be in control of the transitional government—with the exception of the interior and defense ministers. The FFC will have a two-thirds majority in parliament in addition to appointing the prominent economistAbdullah Hamdok, as the first civilian prime minister since Omar al-Bashir took power in 1989.
The agreement represents a way forward for Sudan, but also presents a number of challenges for the FFC—namely maintaining its support among the Sudanese public. Simply sharing power may invite greater criticism upon the FFC and ‘guilt-by-association’ from the public. For example, the TMC enforced an internet and communications blackout to limit media flow out of Sudan to block coverage of human rights violations committed by Rapid Support Forces (RSF) across the country. The return of internet services flooded the internet withviralvideos of the brutal crackdown onJune 3rdin front of the military headquarters in Khartoum, which has increased resentment of the TMC among the Sudanese public. Suddenly, in the aftermath of the power-sharing agreement, the public was exposed to thehundredskilled, injured, or raped by the forces of the TMC. If the FFC decides to grant TMC members immunity from these human rights violations—as it may be pressured to do during the transition–it risks losing support from the Sudanese public and therefore its legitimacy as a governing body.
This is of particular concern given that the FFC based its legitimacy as civilian representation through local and international campaigns to expose the military’s atrocities, by organizing mass civil disobedience, and by advocating for justice for the victims of the brutal crackdown in Khartoum. The FFC’s massive support base of millions of Sudanese people has demonstrated its power to the military’s regional backers.
Nevertheless, the FFC is both more constrained in its power than the TMC and more likely to be held accountable for the road bumps ahead due to the strong expectations of the Sudanese public. With the political agreement signed, the FFC may face a major political rift due to the lack of consensus among its factions. Most notably, the FFC has already lost the support of the Sudanese Revolutionary Front, which includes the Justice and Equality Movement, rebel movements in South Kordofan and the Blue Nile states, and the Sudan Liberation Movement.
These groups rejected the power-sharing agreement, claiming that they had previously reached anagreement with the FFC in Addis Ababato integrate their paramilitary units and militias into the Sudanese military and to reach a final power-sharing agreements with the central government in Khartoum. The subsequent exclusion of these military groups will pose a major threat to the democratic transition in Sudan and the credibility of the FFC.
Given the potential threats, the FFC needs the support of the international community, and more specifically the United States, to pressure for a successful peaceful transition towards the civilian government in Sudan. Washington should link the transition towards democracy with the removal of Sudan as a designated State Sponsor of Terrorism.
The United States has specifically designated former Sudan’s National Intelligence and Security Service director Salah Gosh for his involvement in “gross violations of human rights.” The United States must expand on this by threatening to impose sanctions on prominent Sundanese military leaders implicated in human rights violations—including the TMC chairman General Abdel Fattah Abdelrahman Burhan as well as the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) and its leader General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo Hemedti. Most notably, this action will showcase the United States and the international community's commitment to a smooth democratic transition from the TMC leadership, and helping to curb any ambitions of RSF leader General Hemediti to spoil the current agreement between the TMC and the FFC.
Sanctions will also deter the Sudanese military and the RSF from committing further human rights violations, which could lead to widespread unrest in Sudan. And concrete actions against human rights violators in Sudan could also signal that regional powers should limit their support, which the TMC and RSF have enjoyed since ousting President Omar Al-Bashir.
The FFC is currently a dominant force in Sudanese politics and has succeeded in mobilizing the Sudanese public behind its demands. To reap maximum benefits from the power-sharing agreement with the TMC, the FFC should not align itself with the TMC by providing any sort of legal protection or it risks losing support among Sudanese protestors and other FFC bodies. However, the FFC should not be assumed to be powerful enough to tackle these issues alone. To ensure a smooth democratic transition, the United States and members of the international community must help Sudan exert pressure on the TMC and RSF. A mishandling of this opportunity could result in widespread atrocities, a resurgence of Islamist groups, and a massive flow of refugees in to the surrounding countries. It is important to approach this situation with caution, as a failed democratic transition could bring continued atrocities as Sudan faces a critical juncture in its history.
1111 19th Street NW - Suite 500Washington D.C. 20036Tel: 202-452-0650Fax: 202-223-5364
Fikra Forum is an initiative of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. The views expressed by Fikra Forum contributors are the personal views of the individual authors, and are not necessarily endorsed by the Institute, its staff, Board of Directors, or Board of Advisors.​​
منتدى فكرة هو مبادرة لمعهد واشنطن لسياسة الشرق الأدنى. والآراء التي يطرحها مساهمي المنتدى لا يقرها المعهد بالضرورة، ولا موظفيه ولا مجلس أدارته، ولا مجلس مستشاريه، وإنما تعبر فقط عن رأى أصاحبه
The Institute is a 501(c)3 organization; all donations are tax-deductible.
An initiative of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.

Title: Sudan: Ensuring a credible response by the UN Human Rights Council at its 42nd session. | Human Rights Watch
CSO's Joint Letter to UN Human Rights Council
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
Excellencies,
Ahead of the 42ndregular session of the UN Human Rights Council (“HRC” or “the Council”), we, the undersigned civil society organisations, urge you to ensure the Council takes action to address serious human rights violations and abuses that have been and continue to be committed in Sudan, and to support systemic reforms in the country. As detailed below, the Council should formulate a holistic response to the situation in the country, including by ensuring an investigation of violations committed since December 2018, renewing the mandate of the Independent Expert on Sudan, and strengthening monitoring and reporting by the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR).
On 17 August, the Forces for Freedom and Change (FFC), opposition umbrella groups, as well as the Transitional Military Council (TMC), which took power upon the ouster of former president Omar al-Bashir, signed an agreement on transitional governance arrangements for the next three years, followed by elections. However, the human rights situation in Sudan continues to be of grave concern, including with violence against protesters and ongoing lack of accountability for violations and abuses since December, and poses major risks to long-term stability in the country, as well as in the East African, Horn of Africa and Middle East regions.
Yet, since peaceful protests calling for civilian rule started, in December 2018, the Council has missed several opportunities to contribute to the formulation of a meaningful international response to the Sudanese crisis. It remained silent ahead of its 40thsession (February-March 2019); after the 3 June 2019 massacre; and during its 41stsession (June-July 2019), failing to convene a special session, or an urgent debate, or even to adopt a resolution on the country’s extraordinary human rights situation.
Silence is no longer an option. The transitional agreement is no guarantee of improved respect for human rights. As the UN’s top human rights body, the Council should fulfill its responsibilities towards the Sudanese people and contribute to ensuring that human rights compliance and systemic reforms are central parts of a sustainable political solution to the crisis and that peaceful transitional arrangements are respected, in line with its mandate to promote and protect human rights.Related Contenthrc42_sudan_jointngo_letter.pdf
As the Council’s 42ndsession approaches, Member and Observer States should actively work towards the adoption of a resolution using the range of tools available to address Sudan’s short-, mid-, and long-term human rights challenges. The Council should act in accordance with its mandate to address human rights violations, and be guided by the overarching need to protect the rights and freedoms of the Sudanese people.
Major human rights developments in Sudan since December 2018 are detailed  in the annex to this letter.
With the above considerations and the human rights situation in Sudan in mind, at its 42ndsession, the Council should:
The investigation should:
The Council should request the investigative mechanism to share its report and recommendations with the African Union (AU), the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), and all relevant organs of the UN.
The Council should encourage, as a matter of urgency, the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Government of Sudan and OHCHR, regarding the opening and operationalization of a fully mandated OHCHR country office to monitor the full range of human rights including the domestic investigation into abuses against protesters on June 3, as envisioned in the constitutional charter.
Yet again, we urge you to take immediate and long-overdue action to ensure the Council provides a credible response to the human rights situation in Sudan, and stand ready to provide your Delegation with any further information.

With assurances of our highest consideration,

Annex: Human rights developments in Sudan since December 2018
In December 2018, a threefold increase in the price of bread triggered peaceful mass protests against economic hardship, inequality and poverty, which quickly expanded to include grievances over lack of good governance, authoritarian rule, and human rights violations in Sudan. Tens of thousands of Sudanese started peacefully protesting on a daily basis, organised sit-ins, most notably in the capital Khartoum, and demanded long-term political change. The protests came to be referred to as the “Sudanese Uprising” or “Sudanese Revolution.”
The authorities responded by using excessive and lethal force, indiscriminately firing live ammunition and tear gas into crowds of peaceful protesters, killing dozens of civilians. In a joint letter published in January 2019, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and human rights defenders (HRDs) called on the Council to dispatch a fact-finding mission to Sudan. The signatories wrote: “These attacks are not taking place in a vacuum: they follow decades of violations committed during systematic and widespread attacks on civilians – amounting to crimes against humanity – both in the context of popular protest and multiple conflicts waged against populations in Sudan’s designated peripheries.” At its 40thregular session, however, the Council remained silent on the situation.
On 5 March 2019, the African Commission on Human and Peoples’ Rights (ACHPR) adopted a resolution on the human rights situation in Sudan. The resolution expressed concern over “the use of excessive and disproportionate force to disperse protests, resulting in the deaths and injuries of several protesters,” alarm over “reports that security forces fired live ammunition and tear gas into hospital premises, where protesters were taking shelter,” and concern over “allegations relating to the arbitrary arrest, detention, torture and ill-treatment of persons suspected of participating in or supporting the protests.” The ACHPR made a series of recommendations to the Government and called on it to authorise the Commission to undertake a fact-finding mission to the country.
In the night of 10-11 April 2019, the protest movement and power shifts within the political, military and security apparatus led to the ouster of President Omar al-Bashir, who had ruled Sudan for almost 30 years and is wanted by the International Criminal Court (ICC) on several counts of crimes against humanity, war crimes, and genocide for crimes committed in Darfur. The military installed a Transitional Military Council (TMC) and peaceful protests continued. Protesters and their representatives, including the Sudanese Professionals’ Association (SPA) and other civilian and professional associations, demanded a quick transition to civilian rule through a civilian-led transition process.
On 14 May 2019, in another resolution on Sudan, the ACHPR reaffirmed its statements and recommendations as well as the State’s obligations pursuant to the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights. It called on Sudan’s transitional authorities to “protect the right of citizens to participate freely in the government of their country through freely chosen representatives,” “respect and uphold the fundamental human rights and freedoms of citizens, particularly the right to assembly, freedom from torture and ill-treatment, liberty and security, as well as due process of law, during and after the transition to a Civilian-led Transitional Authority,” “refrain from the use of excessive force against protesters […],” “conduct prompt, impartial and independent investigations into the alleged human rights violations and hold perpetrators, including state security agents accountable,” and “ensure that victims of the violations and their families obtain full and adequate redress.” The standoff between peaceful protesters and the State’s military and security apparatus continued.
On 3 June 2019, Rapid Support Forces (RSF) – or “Janjaweed,” a paramilitary force under the authority of General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, known as “Hemedti,” who also serves as deputy head of the TMC, attacked peaceful demonstrators at a sit-in in Khartoum. More than one hundred civilians have been reported killed, and hundreds more injured. Protesters were also beaten and arbitrarily detained, subjected to rape, including gang rape, and other forms of intimidation and humiliation.
The attacks occurred in the very early morning, with soldiers opening fire on protesters then chasing them into buildings. Forces attacked or prevented care at at least three hospitals with reports of doctors being assaulted. Attacking forces burned down the sit-in tents and looted goods. Reports also indicate that RSF carried out similar attacks on peaceful protesters in Darfur and other parts of the country.
The crimes and human rights violations committed during the crackdown on June 3 shocked the capital, and recall violations committed by government forces and the RSF in other parts of the country over the last decades, including in conflict areas of Blue Nile, South Kordofan, and Darfur.
After the attack, talks between the TMC and FFC, facilitated by H.E. Dr. Abiy Ahmed, Ethiopia’s Prime Minister (as the Chairperson of IGAD), faltered. On 6 June 2019, the AU suspended with immediate effect the participation of Sudan in all AU activities until the effective establishment of a civilian-led Transitional Authority.
In a letter to the HRC, a group of NGOs wrote: “These horrific acts clearly demonstrate [the TMC’s] lack of commitment to a peaceful transition to a civilian government and their determination to consolidate control by the harshest elements in the security services. It highlights the risk of further political polarization and of mass violent confrontation if urgent action is not taken in support of a peaceful transition to civilian rule.” The signatories urged the Council to convene a special session and to adopt a resolution requesting the UN High Commissioner to set up a fact-finding mission.
In another letter addressed to the UN Security Council (UNSC), NGOs highlighted that the RSF, riot police, and national security officials that attacked the protest site “blocked the exit so that protesters could not easily leave and used live ammunition. Gunmen reportedly threw bodies into the Nile, weighing them down with bricks. According to the Central Committee of Doctors, 40 bodies were retrieved from the waters. Attackers also reportedly raped protesters. At least three hospitals were attacked, with reports of doctors assaulted. Since then, targeted harassment of medical personnel has led to the closing of eight hospitals, according to the Central Committee of Doctors.
We note the call by a group of NGOs on the UNSC to support regional efforts by, among other things, condemning the violence, supporting the establishment of an independent investigation, demanding a rapid transfer of power to civilian authorities and a transition period led by civilian authorities, freezing plans to draw down the forces of the joint UN-AU Mission in Sudan (UNAMID), demanding the demobilisation of the RSF under international supervision, and expanding the imposition of targeted sanctions in Sudan, now only focused on Darfur, to individuals most responsible for violence against peaceful protesters and other peaceful opposition. Meanwhile, the RSF committed further human rights violations in Darfur. New satellite evidence and testimonies confirm that government forces, including the Rapid Support Forces and associated militias, have damaged or destroyed at least 45 villages in Jebel Marra between July 2018 and February 2019.
However, ahead of, and at, its 41stsession, the HRC failed to take any action on Sudan. It did not convene a special session or an urgent debate, and failed to adopt any resolution on the situation.
Crimes and human rights violations by forces under the command of the TMC continued, and on 30 June 2019, as the Council’s 41stsession was ongoing, RSF forces attacked protesters in Omdurman, killing at least ten people. On 29 July 2019, security forces broke up a student protests in the city of El-Obeid, shooting dead at least six protesters, including three minors. Killings of civilians have also con­ti­nued to be reported in other areas of the country.
On 5 July 2019, a power-sharing deal was agreed between the TMC and representatives of the civilian protest move­ment, the Forces for Freedom and Change (FFC). The deal envisioned a 39-month tran­sition period led by a Sovereign Council (SC) with a rotating (TMC/FFC) presidency, followed by elections. The agreement also called for an investigation into the 3 June mas­sacre and other instances of violence, as well as a (seemingly unrealistic) six-month time frame to try and reach a peace agreement with all armed rebel groups throughout the country, including Blue Nile, Darfur and South Kordofan.
On 4 August, the parties signed a constitutional charter that provides for transitional bodies, sets out mandated tasks and time periods. On 17 August, the parties signed the power-sharing agreement incorporating both the political and constitutional agreements. On 21 August, the new SC members, chaired by the army general and former TMC chair, Abdel Fattah Burhan, were sworn in along with the prime minister. A new cabinet was scheduled to be appointed on 1 September 2019, and a 300-member legislative council is to be appointed within 3 months.
The agreement contains many ambitious goals for reforming institutions and protecting rights, but no benchmarks for progress. A critical gap in the agreement is the absence of any mechanism to ensure its implementation and consequences for breaching it. The agreement is also sorely lacking in broad accountability for human rights violations. The agreement calls for a new “independent national committee” to investigate the 3 June 2019 massacre with possible African support – but it is unclear if and how those responsible (including commanders who are on the SC) will be held accountable, and if they will be investigations into crimes under international law and other serious human rights violations perpetrated outside of the 3 June event, including before December 2018.
Many ques­tions therefore remain. They include,inter alia, the legal enforceability of the constitu­tional de­cla­ra­tion and consequences for breaching it; details regarding the State’s decentralisation; decision-making in the SC (andde factoveto powers by either of the parties as well as ways of overcoming these vetoes); the status of the RSF and their rela­tion­ship to the Sudanese Armed For­ces (SAF); details of the pro­cess of dismantling the means of control of the former regime; and how to establish and guarantee the maintenance of an independent judiciary.
One Year in the Life of the UN Human Rights Council
Insecurity and Human Rights in Southern Sudan
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
Human Rights Watch defends the rights of people in close to 100 countries worldwide, spotlighting abuses and bringing perpetrators to justice
Get updates on human rights issues from around the globe. Join our movement today.
Every weekday, get the world’s top human rights news, explored and explained by Andrew Stroehlein.
Human Rights Watchis a 501(C)(3) nonprofit registered in the US under EIN: 13-2875808

Title: North Darfur supporters of Musa Hilal continue to call for his release - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Supporters of former Janjaweed leader Musa Hilal, being held in an Omdurman prison for almost two years, organised a large demonstration in Misteriya in North Darfur on Sunday, demanding his release.In a statement, the organisers of the demonstration demanded from the newly established Sovereign Council and Prime Minister Abdallah Hamdouk to intervene, and release all political prisoners in the country “as soon as possible, without any conditions”.
Supporters of former Janjaweed leader Musa Hilal, being held in an Omdurman prison for almost two years, organised a large demonstration in Misteriya in North Darfur on Sunday, demanding his release.
In a statement, the organisers of the demonstration demanded from the newly established Sovereign Council and Prime Minister Abdallah Hamdouk to intervene, and release all political prisoners in the country “as soon as possible, without any conditions”.
“The failure to release all political detainees is a conspiracy in order to isolate them politically, and exclude them from the ongoing political process,” the statement reads.
The demonstrators appealed to the Forces for Freedom and Change and other political and civil forces to pressure the authorities to release all “political prisoners and prisoners of war”.
Hilal was detained, along with his sons and hundreds of his militiamen, by members of the Rapid Support Forces, inNovember 26, 2017, when they refused to hand their weapons during a large disarmament campaign in Darfur.
RSF commander Mohamed Hamdan ‘Hemeti’ said at the time that Hilal and his supporters were “involved in a plot against Sudan which has external dimensions”.
After the deposal of President Al Bashir and the release of a number of political detainees, mainly fighters of armed movements,relativesandfollowersof Musa Hilal have publicly called for his and his men’s release more than once.
On August 27, ten of Hilal’s imprisoned affiliates entered intoa hunger striketo protest their continued detention in a military prison in Omdurman. According to the spokesman for Hilal’s Revolutionary Awakening Council, “they have been subjected to systematic ill-treatment by the prison authorities and deprived of their most basic rights such as medical treatment and to meet their relatives through visits”.

Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide factual updates about political developments to Sudanese and international actors, educate people about how to avoid outbreaks of infectious diseases, and provide a window to the world for those in all corners of Sudan.Support Radio Dabanga for as little as €2.50, the equivalent of a cup of coffee.

Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: Bot Verification


Title: From Sudan to Mali, how climate wars are breaking out across the Sahel | Middle East Eye
The bus to Khartoum delivered Maryam, and those of her neighbours who had survived with her, an escape from siege.
For months they had been hounded by horse-mounted gunmen roaming their village in central Darfur, forcing them inside and away from their farmlands until some of them could bear their imprisonment no longer and left their homes to confront their tormentors.
Maryam’s brother, Adam, was shot and his ear cut off. Her parents were killed.
“They burned our homes, they burned our farms. They killed my mother for riding a donkey. They said ‘you, you’re a slave, this donkey doesn’t belong to you.’ They shot her in the leg and they shot her in the heart,” Maryam told Middle East Eye.
She has since spent seven years living precariously, selling tea on the streets of the Sudanese capital, and unable to return to her village after it was razed by the pro-government Janjaweed militias, who drew fighters from Darfur’s nomadic herder communities.
The ongoing violence that was inflamed in Darfur in the early 2000s killed at least 300,000, according to the UN, and led to allegations of genocide.
While the government’s Janjaweed enforcers were nominally deployed against rebels, the violence against civilian populations betrayed a wider conflict that is becoming increasingly urgent far beyond Sudan - one between transnational, nomadic pastoralist communities who seek space to graze, and land-bound farmers.
Since the height of Darfur’s violence, the whole Sahel region, which spans Africa just south of the Sahara desert, has become riven with such conflicts between herders and farmers over shrinking access to land and natural resources.
It has often been portrayed as a security, or sectarian, issue where groups like Al-Qaeda and Boko Haram have preyed on pastoralist grievances, but experts and the communities themselves say the conflict has been driven by climate change and exacerbated by government failures.
At least 37 people have been killed in 25 incidents in Darfur in 2019, according to local media reports which also highlight abductions and rapes by raiding gunmen.
An estimated 50 people were killed in neighbouring Chad in August, leading to a state of emergency declared in two states and the closure of the border with Sudan.
In March, at least 130 Fulani herders were killed in Mali, while other Fulani herders have routinely been blamed for violence in Nigeria.
“It is becoming a very serious issue in the whole Sudano-Sahelian region. I think it has very serious regional implications. It also has a very serious international implication in terms of security,” Abdal Monium Osman, senior emergency and rehabilitation officer at the UN’s Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), told MEE.
The root of the conflict was over access to natural resources which, for a variety of reasons, he said, brought communities into competition not only with each other but also among themselves.
“Livelihoods are basically dependent on natural resources and the issue is of access control. Any disturbance in terms of access has these kinds of implications.”
The greatest example of that kind of disturbance was a critical drought in the early 1980s that killed more than 1 million people in eastern Africa and saw Darfur’s communities come into conflict in ways that were described as a civil war.
This was two decades before the Darfuri rebel groups were fighting the Janjaweed, though some of the communities involved were the same.
They burned our homes, they burned our farms. They killed my mother for riding a donkey- Maryam, Darfuri tea seller
“There are lots of communities who really haven’t recovered from that drought,” Alex Orenstein, a freelance analyst who uses satellite imagery to map and track the environments herders work in, told MEE.
The drought of the early 1980s, he said, is “what everyone’s scared of happening again”.
“Rainfall in West Africa, the Sahel and into Darfur as well, is so fragile. If you get this period when it doesn’t rain, it is costly.”
Orenstein’s analysis of satellite imagery in the Sahel has led to him warning of a potential threat emerging between Senegal and Mauritania because of a weak rainy season that is likely to mean not enough grass growth for livestock grazing.
Some analysts have boiled the conflict down to a phenomenon known as desertification, which describes the encroachment of the desert into the ever-shrinking space used by pastoralists, forcing them into conflict with farmers as they compete for resources.
Orenstein said that in recent years, at least some parts of the Sahel have had serious problems with a lack of rainfall, though there are other factors exacerbating conflict.
“Every year there’s going to be one spot that isn’t going to do well. And some of the spots are going to be recurrent,” he said.
“Drought is definitely a factor. Drought’s going to get worse. [In] West Africa and the Sahel, there aren’t mechanisms in place that can protect people and protect herders and farmers from the impacts of drought.”
Many of these same conflicts, though rooted in long-brewing tensions and competition, have been reported relatively recently purely through a security lens.
The violence between Fulani herders and Mali’s Dogon community is often connected to an armed rebellion in the country’s north in 2012 that included groups accused of connections to Al-Qaeda. The conflict involving the Fulani in Nigeria is likewise regularly associated with Boko Haram.
Earlier in September, Darfuris living in displacement camps after being forced from their villages since the early 2000s protested against being denied access to their farming land, claiming herders harassed them and were often accompanied by uniformed men in vehicles with mounted machine guns - an allusion to the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) paramilitary that evolved from the Janjaweed.
Osman said that there is a real danger that these long-standing hostilities caused by competition over resources are becoming militarised, by both armed groups and governments, and crossing borders.
The arming of Darfuri herders in the 1980s was, in part, linked to a flow of weapons from Libya’s Muammar Gaddafi channelled into Darfur to support Chadian rebels based there.
In more recent times, the UN has claimed Libya’s instability after Gaddafi’s fall has allowed advanced weaponry to reach herders across the Sahel.
“Over time it evolves. It starts local, over access to natural resources, and then it interacts with other actors and becomes a kind serious threat to regional, national and international security,” Osman said, suggesting as an example that groups like the RSF were using their substantial wealth to recruit mercenaries from other herding communities.
He said that is also distracting policymakers, with foreign aid providers focusing on security issues they feel are most relevant to their own interests.
“What I see in terms of intervention in this region is much more from a security perspective rather than development,” Osman added.
“If you look at the US and Europeans, what they’re looking at right now is much more security [focused], related to the Islamic fundamentalism. Unless there’s a shift in terms of how to look at those issues, I don’t see a way out right now.”
“If you go on Twitter and go down the rabbit hole,” Orenstein said. “In Nigeria, on Twitter, you see people talking about Fulani herders and talking about them as foreigners.”
The narratives about the conflict, partially thanks to the security-focused framing, often gives the impression that aggressive pastoralists are to blame for the conflict. The reality is more complex.
Though herders are blamed for violence, they are as much a victim of insecurity when violence prevents them from reaching their preferred locations for grazing, and they are given no support from the government to sustain their livestock, despite comprising 40 percent of the agricultural economy in the Sahel.
Government policy failures have also exacerbated the environmental damage and competition, as well as the marginalisation of communities far from the capitals of affected countries.
In other cases, the problem is less about a lack of resources and more about rights over land, with herders grazing on farmland as well as farmers cultivating on land traditionally used by pastoralists.
A 2018 study by Sudan’s University of Gedaref estimated the amount of communal land used for farming in an area eastern of Sudan increased seven-fold between 2000 and 2014.
“People are always blaming the pastoralists,” said Osman, who pointed out that there can also be internal conflict within these communities.
“We also have to look at the historical neglect of the pastoralists and pastoral system and the marginalisation of the people who depend upon it.”
This article is available in French onMiddle East Eye French edition.
Copyright © 2014 - 2023.Middle East Eye. All rights reserved.Only England and Wales jurisdiction apply in all legal matters.
Middle East Eye          ISSN 2634-2456

Title: Ousted Sudanese president kept a room containing tens of millions of dollars in cash | Daily Mail Online
ByIsabella Nikolic For Mailonline
Published:07:48 EDT, 9 September 2019|Updated:07:48 EDT, 9 September 2019

2
Viewcomments

Omar al-Bashir had exclusive access to the Presidential Palace room which contained millions of dollars in cash
The ousted president of Sudan had a private room where he stashed millions of dollars in cash, it was revealed at his latest court hearing.
Omar al-Bashir had exclusive access to the Presidential Palace room and a witness at his hearing said he personally handed $11.8million to various entities, including the Rapid Support Forces deputy head and the International University of Africa in Khartoum.
Al-Bashir was ousted in a military coup on April 11, led by Defence Minister Awad Mohamed Ahmed Ibn Auf.
He is now on trial facing charges of corruption and illegal possession of foreign currencies.
The witness, Major General Yassir Bashir, told the court his job was to hand cash to whoever he was told to for three years from 2015 to 2018.
He told the court that al-Bashir gave $5.5million to the RSF deputy head Abdul Rahim Dagalo, brother to the leader of the paramilitary group.
A witness at his hearing said he personally handed $11.8million to various entities, including the Rapid Support Forces deputy head and the International University of Africa in Khartoum. Pictured is al-Bashir sitting in a defendant's cage during his trial
The witness told the court that al-Bashir gave $5.5million to the RSF deputy head Abdul Rahim Dagalo, brother to the leader of the paramilitary group. Pictured is Judge al-Sadiq Abdelrahman at al-Bashir's trial
According to the witness, the paramilitary leader Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo, was present when the cash was handed over.
The witness also said that al-Bashir gave $5million to the university, which was run largely by his ruling Congress party.
He also claimed he was ordered to give military personnel and civilians $222,000 for 'treatment'.
Al-Bashir, who ruled Sudan with an iron fist for 30 years, is now jailed at Kober Prison (pictured) - the same place where he sent countless political dissidents to their death
Another witness, who worked in administration at the university, confirmed receiving the $5million and claimed it was given as 'support' from the president.
Al-Bashir, who ruled Sudan with an iron fist for 30 years, is now jailed at Kober Prison - the same place where he sent countless political dissidents to their death.
The trial continues on Saturday.
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group

Title: Bashir kept key to room with millions of euros - Newspaper - DAWN.COM
KHARTOUM: Sudan’s toppled former leader Omar al-Bashir was the only person with a key to a room at the presidential palace holding millions of euros, his last office manager testified on Saturday.
Speaking at Bashir’s trial on charges of possessing illicit foreign currency and corruption, Yasser Basheer said the former president gave him more than 10 million euros’ ($11 million) cash in his final months of rule for delivery to different parties. Sudan’s military ousted Bashir in April after months of protests. His prosecution is a test of how far power-sharing military and civilian authorities will tackle the legacy of his 30-year authoritarian rule.
The former manager, who worked for Bashir from September 2018 and was speaking as a defence witness, said the president once gave him 5 million euros for Abdelrahim Hamdan Dagalo, deputy head of the feared paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
The money, Basheer said, was delivered in the presence of Abdelrahim’s brother Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, head of the RSF and deputy head of the Transitional Military Council that ruled after Bashir’s ouster. He is now a member of the Sovereign Council formed in a military-civilian power-sharing deal.
Published in Dawn, September 8th, 2019
Dear visitor, the comments section is undergoing an overhaul and will return soon.
Compunode.com Pvt. Ltd. (www.compunode.com).Designed forDawn.
Copyright © 2024, Dawn
NewsKit Publishing Platform

Title: Sudan’s Mercenary Foreign Policy Repeats the Mistakes of the Past | Small Wars Journal
Sudan’s Mercenary Foreign Policy Repeats the Mistakes of the Past
Cameron Evers
Sudan has begun to sendthousandsof  soldiers next door to Libya to shore up renegade General Khalifa Haftar’s failingsiegeof Tripoli. The move, believed to bebankrolledby United Arab Emirates (UAE), marks a new phase in Sudan’s post-Bashir foreign policy that further defines the feared mercenary paramilitary, Rapid Support Forces (RSF), as a bartering chip and proxy army for Saudi Arabia and the UAE, first in Yemen, and now Libya.
The strategy of privateering as foreign policy is a short-sighted measure applied to yet anotherlong-termforeign conflict and suffers from similar international reputational loss and domesticunpopularity, which in Sudanese politics, oftentimes means regime change. Operationally, the move into Libya - if sustained - could result in another collective military failure such as Sudan’s participation in the Saudi coalition in Yemen. Meanwhile, at a time when Sudan’s new transitional government has justbegun, any expansions of thewar crime-linked anduntrustworthyRSF outside of Sudan will likely diminish the chances of newcivilian-guidedforeign policy initiatives, whose success will hinge on internationally perceived legitimacy.
The Failure of Yemen Stalks Further RSF Deployments
The RSF’s move into Libya may fall prey to the same mistakes of the oft-criticizedSudanese intervention in Yemen. Since its inception in April 2015, the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen had depended on foreign mercenaries and armies to fill its ranks. The Saudi monarchy was unable to raise enough manpower from its own population necessary to retake Yemen from Iran-aligned Houthi rebels.
Filling this gap, the Sudanese Armed Forces contributed a major land force to the coalition, having initially deployed between 850 and 2,000 soldiers, whichexpandedto 8,000 and 14,000 Sudanese mercenaries primarily drawing from the militiamen of Hemedti’s RSF. Notably, of all the nations backing the House of Saud—including several Gulf states—Sudan has deployed the most combat-facing infantry, proving an unrivaled commitment within the region and an outsized role as an African nation. Sudan has also endured the vast majority of casualties, many of them child soldiers aged 13-17.
Yemen remains a lost cause for the Saudi coalition, one of the worst humanitarian crises in the past decade, intractable at the ground level between dug-in local actors, and as of 2019, asdestructiveagainst Saudi allies as ever. While Libya’s civil war is much less intense than Yemen’s, common driving elements to both conflicts indicate a similarly protracted political impasse in which local tribally-aligned factions arefueledby foreign regional rivals. There is not a political solution in sight, and a military victory is unlikely owing to a lack of serious advantages held by either warring party.
Sudan’s Citizenry are Dissatisfied with Failed Military Interventions and Foreign Arab-Dominated Policies
Sudanese actions in Yemen show a pattern that may emerge in Libya as well. While there are few political items the diverse range of Sudanese political groups agree on, protests against the military and government’s self-serving actions appear to be united sentiments. The nature of the fighting in Yemen—accurately perceived as causing more damage to Sudanese forces than other foreign armies—and the intervention itself as a military overextension despite problems at home contributed to the litany ofprotestswhich eventually toppled Bashir.After Bashir, the issue of Yemen was lumped in with protestsagainstArab interference into Sudanese politics, and the civilian coalition’s declaration listed ending Sudan’s internal wars, as their number onedemand.
Simultaneously, among the shadowy world of Nile River politics, the traditional power brokers of Khartoum are not likely keen on letting an ethnic Darfurian militia-army (the RSF) absorb more clout than it already has. Indeed, the rapid ascent of the RSF during Sudan’s post-Bashir phase has been an experience what  Sudan expert, Dr. Alex de Waal, calls their “nightmare.” The RSF’s potential achievement of a significant warlord-to-warlord connection with Haftar in Libya (beyond present-ties) could cause some concern.
International Reputation is at Stake During an Opportunity to Reform
The international community, particularly the African Union, the European Union, and the United States, are principally focused on achieving lasting peace between the protesters and the army, as well as a functioning civilian-centric sovereign council capable of outlining the country’s future institutions, including elections. The RSF only serves to destabilize all of this and negatively impact Sudan’s image, particularly as the group internationalizes itself.  By leaving large international operations mostly in the hands of the RSF, the regular Sudanese army and civilian coalition are losing out on the advantages that could have been granted in a safer transition environment. Instead of seizing on the opportunity of the April revolution to reform the military and turn away from Bashir-style politics of foreign policybetrayals, the new government has been foist by the RSF’s self-serving goals into a likely unpopular direction, which may strain the concerns of the international community.
Crucially, the country’s new Prime Minister, Abdalah Hamdok,seeksto remove Sudan from the United States’ State Sponsor of Terror List and end Sudan's pariah status in a bid to help alleviate the country’s depressed economy. If Sudan wants to present a stronger case for legitimacy to the United States and the world, the regular army and civilian government needs to negotiate with or challenge the RSF in order to avoid continually deploying alleged war criminals into wider international engagements. Sudan’s foreign policy of warlord-to-warlord (or warlord-to-monarch) support is likely incompatible with convincing more of the world to fully normalize relations.
While it is unclear if intervention into Libya is just one of many more RSF expansions, the overall role of the RSF in Sudan’s foreign affairs will continue to cause more risks than rewards until the public, Hamdok, or the regular army can rein them in. The influence of Arab monarchical ambitions in Sudan and the lack of civilian or even moderate military control over RSF militias is damaging Sudan’s nascent democratic efforts and peace within the country, and the deployment of troops Libya is just one more sign of this.
Cameron Evers is the YPFP Africa Fellow and is a Senior Intelligence Analyst at WorldAware, Inc., a global risk firm, where he advises a Fortune 500 financial company on geopolitical risk. Previously, Cameron researched for US and Africa-based consultancies and publications with an emphasis on revolutionary movements, civil-military relations, and regime change. He has given talks on African politics within the US government and universities. He holds a Master's degree in International Policy from the University of Georgia School of Public and International Affairs.
AllenWalter
Sat, 09/25/2021 - 8:00am
Permalink
We are committed to providing our clients with exceptional solutions while offering web design and development services, organic SEO services, social media services, digital marketing services,server management services andGraphic Design Company in USA.
©2005-2020
Small Wars Journal is published bySmall Wars Foundation- a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation.Original content is published under aCreative Commons Licenseper ourTerms of Use.
© Copyright 2024| Site by3C Web Services

Title: Home | Monitor
The directive follows concerns raised by MPs from Greater Northern region about the state of road networks and infrastructure, particularly the delays in the Karuma Bridge project
The judge's order is intended to facilitate the defense team's cross-examination of forensic scientist Andrew Kizimula Mubiru, scheduled to begin on September 10
The government plans to increase funding to all its schools and ensure parents do not make any financial contributions
The nine-time champions have had to endure a season dominated by a series of problems.
Cheptegei expressed his gratitude, saying he is excited about building partnerships with supportive organisations
Concentrating government offices and activities in Kampala has created a property asset bubble in the capital that is at odds with how congested and unliveable the city has become
Much as the rear seats were designed to accommodate three passengers, they can comfortably take on four passengers and each will have enough legroom, even for long distances
Several subscribers have cancelled their pay TV subscriptions in favour of streaming services that provide on-demand content, flexible viewing options, and budget-friendly subscription plans.
When he met Aline Kalisa, Rogers Murungi was going through a divorce with the mother of his two children
Like someone had opened the floodgates, other symptoms followed on the heels of her snapping knees. The worst were the hot flashes
Manchester United forward Alejandro Garnacho has the potential to become a world class player, manager Erik ten Hag has said
Nation Media Group © 2024
It's free!
Access the best of Monitor's Independent Journalism

Title: Protests spread in Sudan's Darfur region over shortages of bread and fuel | Middle East Eye
Large crowds chanted revolutionary slogans on the streets in Sudan's western Darfur state on Monday despite forces breaking up earlier protests.
Livestream videos showed hundreds in the city of Nyala, in southern Darfur,  gathering for a third day of protests centred on bread and gas shortages blamed on corruption.
Schoolchildren had initiated the protests but were joined by others holding up signs denouncing Sudanese forces' use of violence on Sunday.
Similar protests in December were the spark for a months-long uprising that ousted three-decade ruler Omar al-Bashir and eventually led to protesters forcing the military into accepting a hybrid civilian-military transitional government.
"Hundreds of students protested against the shortage of bread and when they reached the government headquarters in Nyala, police used violence against them," the Forces of Freedom and Change (FFC) coalition of opposition and protest groups said in a statement.
"There are several injured among the students. We condemn the use of violence against the student protest and call for an investigation."
The South Darfur wing of the FFC's most influential force, the Sudanese Professionals Association (SPA), accused security forces of"playing with distribution of flour and fuel".
Students in Sudan's eastern city of Kassala also reacted to the violence in Darfur by protesting in solidarity on Monday, according to the Association of Sudanese Students, while social media users launched the hashtag "challenges of the transitional period".
Translation: Students of Kassala demonstrate in solidarity with Nyala and condemn the repression of peaceful protests by security forces.
Sudan's notorious Rapid Support Forces paramilitary group has a strong presence in Nyala and throughout Darfur, where they evolved from the Janjaweed militias accused of genocide against indigenous communities.
The UN has estimated that 300,000 were killed in Darfur in operations ordered by Bashir, who is wanted by the International Criminal Court for genocide and crimes against humanity.
Living costs in Sudan soared under Bashir's rule and the economy has struggled since the secession of South Sudan in 2011, where most of the country's oil fields were located.
The new civilian cabinet, led by former UN economist Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok, has declared repairing Sudan's ravaged economy one of its main priorities.
Finance Minister Ibrahim Elbadawi announced on Monday that Hamdok would be asking the World Bank to provide Sudan with $2 billion while visiting New York for the upcoming UN General Assembly.
Copyright © 2014 - 2023.Middle East Eye. All rights reserved.Only England and Wales jurisdiction apply in all legal matters.
Middle East Eye          ISSN 2634-2456

Title: ‘Militia’ shooting prompts mass demo in South Darfur - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Displaced people in Mershing camp in South Darfur staged mass demonstrations on Sunday and Monday to protest the killing of three displaced people and the wounding of four others by two gunmen wearing uniforms of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
Displaced people in Mershing camp in South Darfur staged mass demonstrations on Sunday and Monday to protest the killing of three displaced people and the wounding of four others by two gunmen wearing uniforms of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
One of the camp elders told Radio Dabanga that two armed men in uniforms of the RSF – the feared and notorious main government militia commanded by Lt Gen Mohamed Hamdan ‘Hemeti’, member of Sudan’s Sovereign Council – tried to rob Munir Hamid, a student at the Zalingei University, of his mobile phone on Sunday. When he resisted, one of them shot him dead.
He said the demonstrators moved towards the police station of Mershing, where they went to the office of the neighbouring National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS). When the demonstrators wanted to break into the office of the agency, shots were fired at the crowd, killing Adam Mohamed, and wounding Musa Abdallah and Abdallah Omda.
On Monday morning, the camp residents went out in another demonstration and again went to the office of the security apparatus, demanding the arrest of the killers, who they said were known to them. In subsequent shooting, Hashim Karameldin and Radwan Abdelrahman died.
The aftermath of the incident led to the burning of the police and NISS offices by the demonstrators.

RSF detains North Darfur traders
In North Darfur, an officer of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) arrested two residents of Birkat Seira who refused to leave their shops at the town market for him to benefit from the sales.
Traders at the Baraka Saira market told Radio Dabanga that RSF officer, Mahmoud Sayed, detained Jiddo Zakariya Jonga and Abaker Yahya from inside the market on Monday.
They said that the reason for the arrest was that the RSF tried to force the detainees to hand him their shops in the market for his personal interests, but they refused and proved their ownership of the land.
The traders assert that the RSF officer is famous for his abuses and violations of the rights of citizens, arresting and torturing them, misusing his military function and his immunity to commit crimes.
Radio Dabanga’s editorial independence means that we can continue to provide factual updates about political developments to Sudanese and international actors, educate people about how to avoid outbreaks of infectious diseases, and provide a window to the world for those in all corners of Sudan.Support Radio Dabanga for as little as €2.50, the equivalent of a cup of coffee.


Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: Sudan’s former president had a room full of millions of euros in his palace, office manager says | The Independent | The Independent
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged inPlease refresh your browser to be logged in
Omar al-Bashir on trial on charges of possessing illicit foreign currency and corruption
Find your bookmarks in yourIndependent Premiumsection, under my profile
Our mission is to deliver unbiased, fact-based reporting that holds power to account and exposes the truth.Whether $5 or $50, every contribution counts.Support us to deliver journalism without an agenda.
Louise Thomas
Editor
Sudan‘s ousted leader,Omar al-Bashir, kept millions of euros locked away in a room in his presidential palace, his trial has revealed.
He was the only person with a key to the room, his last office manager testified on Saturday.
Speaking at Mr Bashir’strial on charges of possessing illicit foreign currency and corruption, Yasser Basheer said the former president gave him more than €10 (£9.1) million cash in his final months of rule for delivery to different parties.
Sudan’s military ousted Mr Bashir in Aprilafter months of protests.
His prosecution is a test of how far power-sharing military and civilian authorities will tackle the legacy of his 30-year authoritarian rule.
The former manager, who worked for Mr Bashir from September 2018 and was speaking as a defence witness, said the president once gave him £5 (£4.5) million for Abdelrahim Hamdan Dagalo, deputy head of the feared paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
The money, Mr Basheer said, was delivered in the presence of the deputy’s brother Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, head of the RSF and deputy head of the transitional military council that ruled after Mr Bashir’s ouster.
He is now a member of the sovereign council formed ina military-civilian power-sharing deal.
Other recipients of cash included the Defence Ministry, plus military personnel and civilians for medical treatment.
Mr Basheer added that he did not know the source of the cash and was only following orders.
Abdelmoneim Mohamed, an accountant at the International University of Africa, a private institution with links to Islamists, also testified in Mr Bashir’s defence. He said the university’s director and deputy director received £4 (£3.6) million in cash from the former president.
Mr Bashir sat in a metal cage in the courtroom wearing traditional white robes and turban.
Though he did not speak at Saturday’s hearing, he denied the charges when formally indicted a week ago.
Speaking publicly for the first time since his ouster, Mr Bashir said last week he had received $25 (£20.35) million from Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, as well as from other sources, but had not received or used money for his own benefit.
“I used the money for private donations to various parties” including medical services, a university, an Islamic media channel, and urgent fuel provision, he said.
Millions of euros and Sudanese pounds were found at Mr Bashir’s residence in April, a judicial source said.
The charges carry maximum prison sentences of around 10 years. The next hearing is set for 14 September.
The International Criminal Court in The Hague issued arrest warrants against him in 2009 and 2010 on charges of war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide in Sudan’s Darfur region.
Reuters
Join thought-provoking conversations, follow other Independent readers and see their replies

Want to bookmark your favourite articles and stories to read or reference later? Start your Independent Premium subscription today.
Please refresh the page or navigate to another page on the site to be automatically logged inPlease refresh your browser to be logged in
Log in
New to The Independent?
Or if you would prefer:


Title: Sudan's new prime minister uses UN as launching pad for charm offensive | Middle East Eye
Sudan's first civilian prime minister in three decades has been using a trip to New York for the annual United Nations General Assembly summit as an opportunity to launch a charm offensive and tie up international deals.
Speaking at the UN, Abdalla Hamdok praised the "new Sudan" that has emerged from the months-long protest movement that unseated Omar al-Bashir, who had been in power since 1989, and forced concessions from the military council that replaced him in April.
Hamdok now heads a civilian cabinet that is part of a transitional government that shares power with the military.
"Our revolution slogan is: freedom, peace and justice. We strive to exactly implement that," said Hamdok at a UN event on media freedom, where he promised a break from the media censorship and rights abuses of Bashir's rule.
The former UN economist has utilised his newly opened Twitter account, posting in both Arabic and English, as he met with regional leaders and the heads of international organisations.
He attended as his foreign minister, Asmaa Abdallah, signed an agreement to open a UN human rights office in Sudan.
His government announced earlier in the week that Hamdok plans to ask the World Bank for $2 billion to fund a plan to revive Sudan's economy, which was ravaged under Bashir and suffers from soaring inflation.
The removal of subsidies caused a tripling in the price of bread, prompting protests in December that quickly transformed into a nationwide uprising.
Hamdok's government has said it will keep subsidies in place until at least 2020, but plans to reduce military spending, which he said forms 80 percent of the budget.
The Sovereign Council, a body that operates within the transitional government alongside Hamdok's cabinet, is split between civilian and military members but will be chaired by a general until 2021.
The current chair is the head of the military council that replaced Bashir, Abdel Fattah al-Burhan. He is joined by Mohamed Hamdan Dagolo, also known as Hemeti, the head of the notorious Rapid Support Forces (RSF) paramilitary.
The military council and Hemeti's forces are accused of using deadly force against protesters, including the killing of more than 100 when a sit-in outside the military headquarters in the capital Khartoum was dispersed in June.
Some question whether the military is sincere in upholding its agreement with the protest forces to form the transitional government and there have already been several tests of its response to protests.
Police were criticised last week forusing tear gas to disperse protests, while the RSF were also accused of violently dispersing protests byschool students in Darfur this week.
Protesters in South Kordofan, a focal point of a decades-long rebellion in Sudan's south, have been protesting for the past three weeks over the presence of a gold-mining operation that uses dangerous chemicals, which they claim is owned by Hemeti, and against the heavy presence of his RSF fighters.
Copyright © 2014 - 2023.Middle East Eye. All rights reserved.Only England and Wales jurisdiction apply in all legal matters.
Middle East Eye          ISSN 2634-2456

Title: Arrests after fatal South Darfur shooting - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
In South Darfur, a joint force and a local rescue team have managed to arrest two men alleged to be among the perpetrators of the shooting at Talang Mountains south of Mershing on Sunday.
In South Darfur, a joint force and a local rescue team have managed to arrest two men alleged to be among the perpetrators of theshooting at Talang Mountainssouth of Mershing on Sunday.
Displaced people in Mershing camp in South Darfur staged mass demonstrations on Sunday and Monday to protest the killing of three displaced people and the wounding of four others by two gunmen wearing uniforms of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
One of the camp elders told Radio Dabanga that two armed men in uniforms of the RSF – the feared and notorious main government militia commanded by Lt Gen Mohamed Hamdan ‘Hemeti’, member of Sudan’s Sovereign Council – tried to rob Munir Hamid, a student at the Zalingei University, of his mobile phone on Sunday. When he resisted, one of them shot him dead.
In shooting by security forces during the demonstration, Hashim Karameldin and Radwan Abdelrahman died. The aftermath of the incident led to the burning of the police and NISS offices by the demonstrators.
Radio Dabanga’s editorial independence means that we can continue to provide factual updates about political developments to Sudanese and international actors, educate people about how to avoid outbreaks of infectious diseases, and provide a window to the world for those in all corners of Sudan.Support Radio Dabanga for as little as €2.50, the equivalent of a cup of coffee.


Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: Sudan militia chief Hemeti warns of ‘sleeping cells’ - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Lt Gen Mohamed Hamdan ‘Hemeti’, member of Sudan’s Sovereign Council and commander of the notorious Rapid Support Forces (RSF), has warned of the existence of ‘sleeping cells’ seeking to thwart the new interim government in the country, stressing that “Sudan has passed an important stage in its history”.
Lt Gen Mohamed Hamdan ‘Hemeti’, member of Sudan's Sovereign Council and commander of the feared and notorious Rapid Support Forces (RSF) main government militia, has warned of the existence of ‘sleeping cells’ seeking to thwart the new interim government in the country, stressing that “Sudan has passed an important stage in its history”.
Addressing the RSF in Khartoum on Monday, he said: “The country has gone through conditions that could have drifted it at any moment, but the wisdom of the people and the forces has pulled us out of the bottleneck. There is no success without making enemies.”
Hemeti was referring to the existence ofagents provocateursand fifth-columnists loyal to the deposed Al Bashir regime, who have been accused of fomenting violence and provoking friction between the armed forces and the public.
He pointed out that “there are those who are betting on the failure of the government and do not care about the country or the public interest or the people. We must be vigilant of them.”
He stressed that “stability in Sudan does not satisfy some of the parties, so we must work to preserve the country, praising the role of regular forces in maintaining stability”.
Radio Dabanga’s editorial independence means that we can continue to provide factual updates about political developments to Sudanese and international actors, educate people about how to avoid outbreaks of infectious diseases, and provide a window to the world for those in all corners of Sudan.Support Radio Dabanga for as little as €2.50, the equivalent of a cup of coffee.


Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: Senior military official says snipers shooting civilians and soldiers in Khartoum | The Star
Monday, 01 Jul 2019
KHARTOUM (Reuters) - A senior member of Sudan's military leadership said unknown snipers shot at least five civilians and three paramilitary soldiers on Sunday as tens of thousands marched in the capital demanding a return to civilian rule.
General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, the deputy head of the Transitional Military Council (TMC), did not say whether anyone died and gave no information on the gunmen or their affiliation during his short address on state TV.
RM13.90/monthRM6.95 only
Billed as RM6.95 for the 1st month then RM13.90 thereafters.
RM12.33/monthRM6.17/month
Billed as RM78 for the 1st year then RM148 thereafters.
Free Trial
For new subscribers only

Report it to us.
Thank you for your report!

Copyright © 1995-Star Media Group Berhad [197101000523 (10894-D)]
Best viewed on Chrome browsers.

We would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion. Kindly fill the form below
We hope you enjoy this feature!

Title: Sudan’s Bashir Kept Key to Room With Millions of Euros, Court Hears | The Epoch Times
Friends Read Free
KHARTOUM—Sudan’s toppled former leader Omar al-Bashir was the only person with a key to a room at the presidential palace holding millions of euros, his last office manager testified on Saturday.
Speaking at Bashir’s trial on charges of possessing illicit foreign currency and corruption, Yasser Basheer said the former president gave him more than 10 million euros’ ($11 million) cash in his final months of rule for delivery to different parties.
Sudan’s military ousted Bashir in April after months of protests. His prosecution is a test of how far power-sharing military and civilian authorities will tackle the legacy of his 30-year authoritarian rule.
The former manager, who worked for Bashir from September 2018 and was speaking as a defense witness, said the president once gave him 5 million euros for Abdelrahim Hamdan Dagalo, deputy head of the feared paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
The money, Basheer said, was delivered in the presence of Abdelrahim’s brother Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, head of the RSF and deputy head of the Transitional Military Council that ruled after Bashir’s ouster. He is now a member of the Sovereign Council formed in a military-civilian power-sharing deal.
RSF leader Dagalo, also known as Hemedti, was present during the cash handover, a witness said.
The witness provided the court with the receipts of all the funds except the 5 million euros to Dagalo’s brother.
“I was not given a paper receipt for the delivered amount,” he added.
Other recipients of cash included the Defense Ministry, plus military personnel and civilians for medical treatment, Basheer said, adding that he did not know the source of the cash and was only following orders.
“Al-Bashir was the only one with a key to the room where the money was found. My mission was only to deliver the cash as ordered by al-Bashir,” Basheer told the court.
Abdelmoneim Mohamed, a second witness and an accountant at the International University of Africa, a private institution with links to Islamists, also testified in Bashir’s defense. He said the university’s director and deputy director received 4 million euros in cash from Bashir. He was told that the money was provided as “support” from the president.
Bashir sat in a metal cage in the courtroom wearing traditional white robes and turban.
Though he did not speak at Saturday’s hearing, he denied the charges when formally indicted a week ago.
Speaking publicly for the first time since his ouster, Bashir said last week he had received $25 million from Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, as well as from other sources, but had not received or used money for his own benefit.
“I used the money for private donations to various parties,” including medical services, a university, an Islamic media channel, and urgent fuel provision, he said.
Millions of euros and Sudanese pounds were found at Bashir’s residence in April, a judicial source said.
The charges carry maximum prison sentences of around 10 years. The next hearing is set for Sept. 14.
The International Criminal Court in The Hague issued arrest warrants against him in 2009 and 2010 on charges of war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide in Sudan’s Darfur region.

Title: Sudan's new PM Hamdok orders investigation into killing of protesters | Middle East Eye
Sudan's new Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok has formed a committee to probe an armed June crackdown on a weeks-long protest camp in Khartoum that killed and wounded hundreds of demonstrators, state media reported.
Shortly before dawn on 3 June, gunmen in military fatigues raided the sit-in outside army headquarters in the capital, shooting and beating protesters in an operation that shocked international observers, AFP said.
At least 127 demonstrators were killed and hundreds more wounded, according to doctors linked to the protest movement. Officials have given a lower death toll.
Despite military authorities carrying out an earlier investigation, the umbrella protest movement Forces of Freedom and Change had consistently demanded an independent probe into the crackdown.
Protest leaders had demanded the establishment of an international inquiry as part of a subsequent power-sharing agreement with the military, but the generals insisted on a Sudanese-led probe, theAssociated Presssaid.
Late on Saturday, the official SUNA news agency reported that Hamdok had launched an "independent probe" into the crackdown.
It said Hamdok had formed a seven-member investigating team including representatives from the ministries of justice, interior, defence as well as independent members.
The probe may seek support from the African Union if needed, said Hamdok, who was headed to New York to attend the UN meetings, according to the AP.
The committee will present its report within three months, SUNA reported.
"This is an independent committee formed according to what was mentioned in the constitutional declaration," SUNA said, referring to a power-sharing agreement between protest leaders and the previous ruling military council that was signed in August.
The constitutional declaration was signed after almost eight months of protests - initially against longtime autocrat Omar al-Bashir, who fell in April, then against the military council that took his place.
An earlier probe into the crackdown, conducted by the military council, had found that members of the country's feared paramilitary Rapid Support Forces were involved in the crackdown, confirming accusations by protesters.
The military council has insisted it had not ordered the dispersal of the sit-in, but had ordered an operation including RSF members to clear up a nearby area.
A prosecutor who headed that probe revealed in July that an RSF general had separately ordered a colonel to disperse the sit-in despite having no such order from further up the chain of command.
He said eight RSF officers, including a major general, have been accused of crimes against humanity. He did not elaborate on how the investigation would proceed against the accused officers, according to the AP.
Copyright © 2014 - 2023.Middle East Eye. All rights reserved.Only England and Wales jurisdiction apply in all legal matters.
Middle East Eye          ISSN 2634-2456