Title: Sudan military council meets with US envoy
Sudan's new military rulers met with Washington's top envoy to Khartoum on Sunday to discuss security in the country after the army ousted Omar al-Bashir, state media reported.
After months of widespread popularprotests, the military on Thursday overthrew Bashir - just shy of 30 years in power - and set up amilitary councilit says will rule the country for the next two years.
Steven Koutsis met with the transitional military council's deputy leader Mohammad Hamdan Daglo, known as "Himeidti", at the presidential palace in Khartoum.
Himeidti is the head of Sudan's Rapid Support Forces (RSF), a paramilitary anti-insurgency force with its origins in theJanjaweedmilitias of the Darfur conflict.
The Sudanese regime is alleged to have recruited, funded and armed the Janjaweed who committed mass rape, murder, war crimes and genocide in West Darfur and other regions, according to the International Criminal Court (ICC).
Himediti briefed Koutsis on the current situation in Sudan and the reason for forming the military council, state news agencySUNAreported.
The deputy leader also told the US envoy how the military council would "preserve the security and stability of the country".
Under Himedti, the RSF has fought against rebel groups in the conflict areas ofDarfur, Blue Nile and South Kordofan, but it has also been accused of crimes and human rights violations against civilians in those areas.
The RSF has also been responsible for rounding up and deporting refugees and migrants, most of whom are Somalis, Eritreans and Ethiopians, attempting to cross the desert to reach Europe.
The EU has given Sudan more than $250 million to combatmigration.
Sudan's military council is headed by General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, who took power after his predecessor General Awad Ibn Aufstepped downon Friday.
As former commander of the army's ground forces and inspector general of the army, Burhan oversaw the deployment of Sudanese troops to Yemen as part of the Saudi-led coalition.
Thousands of Sudanese children from Darfur have been recruited by Saudi Arabia to fight in the war in Yemen,The New York Timesreported in December.
Sudanese soldiers who fought in Yemen told theTimesthat between 20 to 40 percent of their units were made up of child soldiers.

Title: Sudan military council generals slip up in press conferences
Generals in Sudan's ruling transitional military council have made two critical verbal slip-ups in the space of 24 hours that have left anti-regime protesters feeling their suspicions about the military junta's motives of power are correct.
Sudan's military seized power in a coup earlier in April after months of mass popular protests across the country.
Although the governing transitional military council hasagreedto the formation of a joint civilian-military transitional council with negotiators representing the demands of protesters, many Sudanese on the streets remain suspicious of the military council, members of which they see as enduring remnants of Sudan's previous regime.
Protesters' demands have led to the resignation of former security forces chief Salah Gosh and three members of the transitional council who were seen as close allies Bashir representative of rights abuses and war crimes allegedly carried out under his tenure.
Despite demonstrators calling for the arrest of such regime remnants, many remain free - including Gosh, who as National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS) chief earned the enmity of anti-regime Sudanese.
Protesters have also demanded to see Bashir and other regime figures who the military says have been imprisoned, but their demands have gone unheeded.
This lack of transparency, coupled with actions by the military such as itsdemandfor protesters to remove barricades protecting a masssit-inin the capital Khartoum, have only served to deepen worries that the military is trying to seek power for itself, rather than secure a civil democratic state that protesters are demanding.
Two embarrassing verbal slip-ups by members of the transitional military council over the past 24 hours have strengthened those concerns.
At a televised press conference on Monday night, council spokesman Shams al-Deen Kabashi called the protest organiser-led umbrella group tasked withnegotiatingwith the military "the Alliance for Freedom and Assassination" ("ightiyal" in Arabic).
The real name of the group is the Alliance for Freedom and Change ("taghyir" in Arabic).
A more spectacular blunder was to come on Tuesday.
Sitting in front of press mics at another televised press conference on Tuesday, council member General Salah Abdel Khaliq appeared not to realise the mics were on when he unfavourably compared himself to the council's deputy leader, Mohammad Hamdan Daglo.
Daglo, widely known by his nickname Himedti, is the chief of Sudan's Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
The paramilitary anti-insurgency force is a direct descendant of theJanjaweedmilitias of the Darfur conflict, of which Himedti is also said to have been a commander.
The Sudanese regime is alleged to have recruited, funded and armed the Janjaweed who committed mass rape, murder, war crimes and genocide in West Darfur and other regions, according to the International Criminal Court (ICC).
Under Himedti, the RSF has fought against rebel groups in the conflict areas ofDarfur, Blue Nile and South Kordofan, but it has also been accused of crimes and human rights violations against civilians in those areas.
The RSF has also been responsible for rounding up and deporting refugees and migrants, most of whom are Somalis, Eritreans and Ethiopians, attempting to cross the desert to reach Europe.
Many protesterstermHimedti a "war criminal" and see his position as deputy leader as evidence that the military does not intend to seriously reform the Sudanese regime.
Rather than distancing himself from Himedti, Abdel Khaliq seemed to say that the deputy leader was "bad".
"I swear to God, I'm worse than Himedti," the naval commander said."People just don't know."

Title: Sudan's President Finds Himself on Shaky Ground
Sign Out
Apr 9, 2019 | 20:17 GMT
Sudanese protesters rally in front of the military headquarters in Khartoum on April 8, 2019. Amid continuing protests and a dire economy, President Omar al Bashir's party might be ready to cut him loose.
(STRINGER/AFP/Getty Images)
In the heart of Khartoum, momentum is growing against Sudan's strongman. The ongoing protests to oust President Omar al Bashir are not only unprecedented in scale and duration, but also in attracting the support of some regular army units. On April 8, soldiers stationed near the protests engaged in clashes with other security forces aiming to crack down on demonstrators. On the morning of April 9, security forces ended a brief lull by renewing their attempt to disperse protesters, only to provoke similar resistance by regular army forces, resulting in fresh firefights. Amid these divisions in the military, the police have also ordered a halt to interventions against protesters....
Subscribe Now
Already have an account?

Title: The Stunning Revenge of Sudan's Former 'Janjaweed' | MEMRI

The fall of the nearly 30-year regime of Sudan's president Omar al-Bashir was almost entirely due to the heroism and steadfastness of the Sudanese people – ordinary people, youth, women and the urban poor – rallying without fear since December 2018 until April 11, 2019 and beyond. Led initially by the Sudanese Professionals Association (SPA) and by civil society, it was later embraced by traditional opposition parties and armed rebel groups. Dozens of demonstrators were killed and hundreds arrested and abused by a regime skilled in repression and violence that had successfully suppressed for years various waves of civil unrest through a combination of force and the illusory offer of dialogue and reform.
This time the result was different.[1]The usual tactics did not work. Bashir may just have lost his touch and have been in power too long. But the national security establishment he depended on for so long, an establishment that he had honed and manipulated for years, in the end reportedly refused to follow his demand for greater violence against demonstrators. The initial statement by the first, brief leader of the interim military council, Defense Minister Awad Mohamed Ahmed Ibn Awf, made it seem as if it were a call for a more violent crackdown that caused the military to move against Bashir.
The initial impression made was less of a coup d'etat overthrowing a regime than a regime making an internal course correction. The Defense Minister said that the Council would remain in power for two years, maintain a state of emergency for three months, and enforce a nightly curfew. It didn't turn out that way. Ibn Awf made it clear in that first statement that the move against Bashir was made by the Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF), the police, the National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS), and the shock troops of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF). But almost immediately, the fissures in the ruling cupola appeared.
Little noticed at first was the fact that the RSF refused to take its seats in the interim military council and publicly called for a much stronger embrace of the demands of Sudan's civilian demonstrators, including a quicker return to civilian rule.[2]
For those who know Sudan, this was an interesting turn of events. The RSF, forged by Khartoum out of the violence of the Darfur conflict, is the latest iteration of the notorious Janjaweed, paramilitary forces drawn from Darfur's Arab tribes and used by the regime in bloody counter insurgency work, first in Darfur and later in other border areas of Sudan and eventually, in 2013-2014, even in suppressing demonstrations in Khartoum.
As U.S. Charge d'Affaires in Sudan from 2007 to 2009, I spent a considerable amount of time meeting with the Darfuri Arab tribes, particularly the camel herders (Abbala Rizeigat) from where the Janjaweed were principally drawn. I was even able to meet two of their most emblematic (or notorious) leaders, Musa Hilal and Muhammad Hamdan Dagalo, commonly known in Sudan as "Hemeti."
Although bitter rivals, both told a similar tale of their relationship with Khartoum. Faithful executioners of a brutal security policy in Darfur, they were acutely conscious of being used by Khartoum, of being manipulated as marginalized people. Dependent on NISS for funding and weapons, they also resented how NISS would play them, encouraging tribes to fight each other. Both expressed a deep ambivalence about their symbiotic relationship with the center and emphasized that they were not partisans of the ruling Islamist National Congress Party. Indeed, both would at some point briefly revolt against Khartoum and flirt with joining the armed opposition.
Darfur's Arab tribes were certainly victims who had turned into victimizers. Mostly poor and poorly educated, they were actually little different from marginalized tribes all along Sudan's periphery, from their rivals and victims in Darfur to the Misseriyya of Kordofan and the Beja of Eastern Sudan. Like colonial authorities, the powers that be in Sudan played one tribe against another, punishing one while rewarding another. Such behavior had been honed in the decades long war against the South Sudanese, but continued after the independence of the South in 2011. Bashir and the NCP merely continued and accelerated practices previous governments had implemented to maintain control.
Musa Hilal initially seemed like Khartoum's main Janjaweed commander and favored interlocutor. In 2008 he was named an advisor to the Ministry of Federal Affairs. He was elected to Sudan's parliament as part of Bashir's NCP.[3]But Hilal tried to maintain his power base in Darfur and violently resisted merging his forces into the Rapid Support Forces headed by his rivals. In November 2017 he was arrested by Khartoum and as of early 2019 remained in prison.[4]
Hemeti would in the end prove to be a more adroit power player. The nephew of the traditional chief of the Awlad Mansour section of the Mahariyya clan of the Rizeigat, Hemeti ostensibly worked for NISS after the creation of the RSF in 2013 and reported to a NISS general based in Khartoum.[5]Over time, Hemeti would become more independent of NISS and seems to have been able to play NISS and SAF against each other while giving Sudan's President an autonomous "third option" to use against the much larger army and intelligence services. While creditably accused of human rights abuses and war crimes in Darfur,[6]the RSF also benefited from being used as brutal shock troops at the beck and call of Khartoum beyond Darfur; in 2016, a decree placed them directly under presidential control.[7]
This reputation of being a force that is both essential and expendable, a sort of Praetorian Guard dependent only on the Sudanese head of state, would see the RSF sent to fight in Yemen as part of Sudan's contribution to the Saudi-led coalition effort against Iran-backed Houthi rebels.[8]It is in Yemen that the RSF solidified a connection with then Brigadier Abdel Fattah Burhan. Burhan also had a connection with Sudan's border guards where some of these Darfur Arab paramilitaries had served. Burhan's role as coordinator for the Sudanese war effort in Yemen also placed him in contact with allies in the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia.[9]
In contrast with the aloof and arrogant Ibn Awf, Burhan was photographed meeting with demonstrators, at the same time as the RSF openly sided with demonstrators and demanded a stronger position by the interim military council in aligning with the popular will. Less than 48 hours after the removal of Bashir, Burhan would be sworn in as head of the council.[10]Not only would Ibn Awf fall from grace, but also NISS chief Salah Gosh, the onetime master and creator of the RSF, would fall as well.[11]His replacement Shams al-Din al-Kabashi was a graduate of the same batch at Sudan's military college as Burhan. And stunningly sworn in as deputy to Burhan on April 13, ostensibly interim "Vice-President" of the military council was the 46-year old RSF commander Muhamad Hamdan Dagalo "Hemeti."[12]This was an astonishing, meteoric rise to power in less than 10 years, from Darfuri Arab paramilitary field commander to ostensibly the second most powerful position in Sudan.
Given the volatile political situation in Sudan, there is no guarantee that the correlation of forces in place right now will last. Sudan is a political and economic basket case and will face difficult times even with a competent civilian government, should one emerge. The masses have seen the beginnings of change and clearly want much more. It is not clear how long the surprising honeymoon between the new military leadership, including the RSF, and demonstrators will last. And there is no guarantee that it will all not end in tears, although Western diplomats have begun meeting with Hemeti, and the UAE and Saudi Arabia have promised new assistance to Sudan. But in the end, the brutal henchmen that Khartoum had unleashed to bloodily impose its will in Darfur would turn against him and help give Sudan a chance – how much of a chance is still unclear – for a better future.

* Alberto M. Fernandez is President of Middle East Broadcasting Networks (MBN). The views expressed herein are solely those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the official views of the U.S. Government.
[1]Washingtoninstitute.org/policy-analysis/view/after-bashirs-fall-whats-next-for-sudan, April 11, 2019.
[2]Xinhuanet.com/english/2019-04/12/c_137972485.htm, April 12, 2019.
[3]Aljazeera.com/indepth/opinion/2017/09/sudan-renegade-sheikh-170909175651542.html, September 10, 2017.
[4]Africanews.com/2017/11/27/musa-hilal-the-powerful-militia-chief-from-darfur-arrested//, November 27, 2017.
[5]Dabangasudan.org/en/all-news/article/background-who-are-the-rapid-support-forces-in-sudan, September 9, 2015.
[6]Hrw.org/report/2015/09/09/men-no-mercy/rapid-support-forces-attacks-against-civilians-darfur-sudan, September 9, 2019.
[7]Smallarmssurveysudan.org/fileadmin/docs/issue-briefs/HSBA-IB-27-Sudanese-paramilitary-forces.pdf, November 27, 2017.
[8]Jamestown.org/program/sudans-controversial-rapid-support-forces-bolsters-saudi-efforts-yemen/, October 27, 2017.
[9]Aa.com.tr/en/middle-east/who-is-new-head-of-sudans-transitional-council/1451074, April 13, 2019.
[10]France24.com/en/20190413-veteran-soldier-burhan-becomes-sudans-new-ruler, April 13, 2019.
[11]Aawsat.com/english/home/article/1679931/profile-sudans-ex-intelligence-chief-salah-gosh, April 15, 2019.
[12]Dabangasudan.org/en/all-news/article/rsf-militia-commander-sworn-in-as-sudan-s-interim-v-p, April 13, 2019.
© 1998-2024, The Middle East Media Research Institute All Rights Reserved. Materials may only be cited with proper attribution
Privacy Policy

Title: Three more detained in West Kordofan joint force raids - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
On Monday, a joint force of Sudanese army troops, police, and paramilitaries of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) detained three people from Abu Zabad in West Kordofan under the State of Emergency.
On Monday, a joint force of Sudanese army troops, police, and paramilitaries of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) detained three people from Abu Zabad in West Kordofan undertheState of Emergency.
Witnesses told Radio Dabanga that the joint force has continued its campaign in Abu Zabad for the second week. Three more people were detained on Tuesday.
They report that on Monday, the authorities released 15 people of the35 who were held last week, including two women.
Theft
The residents have complained of being robbed and humiliated during the campaign. Human rights activists said the stolen items included cash money and mobile telephones.
They pointed out that most of the charges for which the detainees are being arrested are based on incorrect information. They called for an end to the campaigns and the release of anyone who has not been proven guilty in a court of law.
HUDO
Human Rights Centre (Hudo) reported in a statement today that on March 26, for unknown reasons, Ahmed Elsayid (29) was brutally arrested by SAF soldiers in Elfaid Um Abdalla of South Kordofan and deported to Um Brembeta.
Since then, he has been held incommunicado and he is allegedly undergoing torture. The Hudo statements says that Elsayid is a former SAF soldier. He is one of the people who were displaced from their home town of Elfaid Um Abdalla in 2011 when the war erupted in South Kordofan.
On March 26, 13 armed soldiers dressed in Sudan Armed Forces (SAF) uniform headed by an officer came in two vehicles mounted with machine guns to Elsayid’s house in Elfaid Um Abdalla and arrested him. They beat and assaulted him with sticks and whips in the presence of his children in his house, bound him with ropes, put him on to one of their vehicles .and drove to Um Brembeta military headquarters where he has been held incommunicado.
A reliable source informed HUDO that, Ahmed is undergoing torture and is in a bad health condition.
Disarmament campaign
Last year in July, the Sudanese government announced adisarmament campaignin the country, to begin with in Darfur and Kordofan.
Members of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF), Sudan’s main government militia, and the army were tasked to collect illegal arms and unlicensed vehicles from civilians. In North Darfur alone, more than12,500 RSF troopswere deployed for this purpose.
The phase of the voluntary handover of weapons ended and compulsory collection began in end October. By then,about 30,000 weapons had been collected, out of an estimated 700,000 illegal weapons circulating in Darfur.
In November 2017, the commander of RSF, deployed more forces for its disarmament campaign in Darfur. This was followed by a re-enforcement campaign in May 2018, announced by the Sudan’s second vice-president.
Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: Political calculations in Sudan
General al-Burhan is the commander of the Sudanese ground forces and is believed to enjoy some popularity within the army’s lower ranks. Some opposition groups see him as more acceptable because he is considered not to be an Islamist. Yet, he, too, has a murky past.As an officer in the ground forces, he had served in both South Darfur and South Sudan. In the 2000s, he was also a mid-raking commander in the notorious Border Guards, a sub-group of the Janjaweed militia.In recent days, people in Darfur have expressed their outrage at al-Burhan’s appointment as head of the military council, claiming that under his command, the Border Guards committed killings and forced displacement.He also seems to support the Popular Defence Forces (PDF), which was created in 1989 by al-Bashir as a loyal paramilitary organisation with an Islamist ideology which in the 1990s fought in the war in South Sudan.Over the past few days, a video from a news broadcast has been widely circulated on social media, which shows General al-Burhan addressing the PDF, calling them the “legitimate sons” of the Sudanese army, and saying that he would never accept their dissolution under any circumstances.Al-Burhan’s deputy, General Hemedti, also has a similar background. In the mid-2000s, he was a commander of the Fut-8 battalion of the Border Guards in Darfur, where, in 2007, he led a rebellion against the army, which had failed to pay his men salaries. He eventually made up with Khartoum and in 2013 he was appointed head of the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF), which absorbed former Janjaweed militia. The move was engineered by al-Bashir to punish Janjaweed leader Sheikh Musa Hilal who had started criticising him.But more recently, not fully trusting Hemedti, al-Bashir began appointing some of his loyalists to the RSF, to ensure the paramilitary force was under tight control. Hemedti was said to have had close ties to Taha al-Hussain, the former director of the president’s office, who was dismissed in 2017 and then swiftly appointed as an adviser at the Saudi ministry of foreign affairs after moving to Riyadh.Since the protests erupted, Hemedti has been careful about his public statements, displaying a great deal of political acumen and opportunism. He distanced himself and his militia from any act of violence against the peaceful protesters and expressed support for the demands of the Sudanese people and respect for human rights.His appointment as a deputy chair of the transitional council prompted outrage on social media and was widely rejected by people in Darfur, Blue Nile and South Kordofan states, where his militia has been committing crimes against the civilian population.Hemedti also appears to be involved with the war effort in Yemen. The fact that the two generals in charge are linked by the major roles they have played in the wars in Darfur and Yemen is not coincidental. The UAE and Saudi Arabia have hastened to recognise the military council, while the African Union and the European Union have both rejected it. General Hemedti, in turn, announced that the Sudanese troops would abide by its commitments to the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen.No doubt, the overthrow of al-Bashir and his close corrupt and brutal clique out of power is a positive development, but what is currently going on is not a full-fledged revolution, like the ones in October 1964 and April 1985. There is yet to be a break with the old regime.It is true that General al-Burhan has struck a conciliatory tone and seemingly accepted the popular demands for freedom, peace and justice. He also made some promises about moving away from the old regime by uprooting it, fighting corruption and pursuing justice and accountability.But there are also plenty of doubts about his true intentions and agenda.There are real concerns that the new transitional military council is just a puppet of the old regime, which was created to buy time and ensure the continuity of the status quo. To date, it is not clear what the fate of figures of the old regime, including al-Bashir, will be and how the military council will deal with the deep state and its militias, security and financial arms.At the same time, tensions within the regime itself remain. The appointment of Hemedti, a commander of a militia who did not graduate from a Sudanese military academy to such a high position within the state is a shocking precedent and could play a detrimental role in Sudanese politics.It shows the weakness of the Sudanese army and the collapse of the Sudanese state institutions. This situation could trigger tensions between different groups in the regime and destabilise the state further.Meanwhile, there are also real fears that the popular opposition could also fragment along generational, ideological, geographical and ethnic lines. A rift between the youth and traditional political forces has started to appear over how to deal with the military council and what political priorities should be pursued.Such divisions could be exploited by the military council and the old regime to carry out a full-fledged counterrevolution. Many regional powers are not interested in seeing the foundations of democracy being laid in Sudan and are ready to do whatever it takes to undermine any peaceful democratic transition.Furthermore, the Sudanese people also fear that their country could descend into chaos and total war, if the change does not come soon.There are many lessons to be learned from the fate of post-independence of Sudan, the October Revolution of 1964, the April Uprising of 1985 and the separation of South Sudan. The popular protest movement has a unique opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, and seek national unity, equal citizenship for all ethnic groups and reconciliation. Only a strong and united popular front could withstand the counter-revolution the Sudanese generals, the deep state and foreign powers would surely launch in order to undermine the revolutionary movement.Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
As an officer in the ground forces, he had served in both South Darfur and South Sudan. In the 2000s, he was also a mid-raking commander in the notorious Border Guards, a sub-group of the Janjaweed militia.In recent days, people in Darfur have expressed their outrage at al-Burhan’s appointment as head of the military council, claiming that under his command, the Border Guards committed killings and forced displacement.He also seems to support the Popular Defence Forces (PDF), which was created in 1989 by al-Bashir as a loyal paramilitary organisation with an Islamist ideology which in the 1990s fought in the war in South Sudan.Over the past few days, a video from a news broadcast has been widely circulated on social media, which shows General al-Burhan addressing the PDF, calling them the “legitimate sons” of the Sudanese army, and saying that he would never accept their dissolution under any circumstances.Al-Burhan’s deputy, General Hemedti, also has a similar background. In the mid-2000s, he was a commander of the Fut-8 battalion of the Border Guards in Darfur, where, in 2007, he led a rebellion against the army, which had failed to pay his men salaries. He eventually made up with Khartoum and in 2013 he was appointed head of the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF), which absorbed former Janjaweed militia. The move was engineered by al-Bashir to punish Janjaweed leader Sheikh Musa Hilal who had started criticising him.But more recently, not fully trusting Hemedti, al-Bashir began appointing some of his loyalists to the RSF, to ensure the paramilitary force was under tight control. Hemedti was said to have had close ties to Taha al-Hussain, the former director of the president’s office, who was dismissed in 2017 and then swiftly appointed as an adviser at the Saudi ministry of foreign affairs after moving to Riyadh.Since the protests erupted, Hemedti has been careful about his public statements, displaying a great deal of political acumen and opportunism. He distanced himself and his militia from any act of violence against the peaceful protesters and expressed support for the demands of the Sudanese people and respect for human rights.His appointment as a deputy chair of the transitional council prompted outrage on social media and was widely rejected by people in Darfur, Blue Nile and South Kordofan states, where his militia has been committing crimes against the civilian population.Hemedti also appears to be involved with the war effort in Yemen. The fact that the two generals in charge are linked by the major roles they have played in the wars in Darfur and Yemen is not coincidental. The UAE and Saudi Arabia have hastened to recognise the military council, while the African Union and the European Union have both rejected it. General Hemedti, in turn, announced that the Sudanese troops would abide by its commitments to the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen.No doubt, the overthrow of al-Bashir and his close corrupt and brutal clique out of power is a positive development, but what is currently going on is not a full-fledged revolution, like the ones in October 1964 and April 1985. There is yet to be a break with the old regime.It is true that General al-Burhan has struck a conciliatory tone and seemingly accepted the popular demands for freedom, peace and justice. He also made some promises about moving away from the old regime by uprooting it, fighting corruption and pursuing justice and accountability.But there are also plenty of doubts about his true intentions and agenda.There are real concerns that the new transitional military council is just a puppet of the old regime, which was created to buy time and ensure the continuity of the status quo. To date, it is not clear what the fate of figures of the old regime, including al-Bashir, will be and how the military council will deal with the deep state and its militias, security and financial arms.At the same time, tensions within the regime itself remain. The appointment of Hemedti, a commander of a militia who did not graduate from a Sudanese military academy to such a high position within the state is a shocking precedent and could play a detrimental role in Sudanese politics.It shows the weakness of the Sudanese army and the collapse of the Sudanese state institutions. This situation could trigger tensions between different groups in the regime and destabilise the state further.Meanwhile, there are also real fears that the popular opposition could also fragment along generational, ideological, geographical and ethnic lines. A rift between the youth and traditional political forces has started to appear over how to deal with the military council and what political priorities should be pursued.Such divisions could be exploited by the military council and the old regime to carry out a full-fledged counterrevolution. Many regional powers are not interested in seeing the foundations of democracy being laid in Sudan and are ready to do whatever it takes to undermine any peaceful democratic transition.Furthermore, the Sudanese people also fear that their country could descend into chaos and total war, if the change does not come soon.There are many lessons to be learned from the fate of post-independence of Sudan, the October Revolution of 1964, the April Uprising of 1985 and the separation of South Sudan. The popular protest movement has a unique opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, and seek national unity, equal citizenship for all ethnic groups and reconciliation. Only a strong and united popular front could withstand the counter-revolution the Sudanese generals, the deep state and foreign powers would surely launch in order to undermine the revolutionary movement.Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
In recent days, people in Darfur have expressed their outrage at al-Burhan’s appointment as head of the military council, claiming that under his command, the Border Guards committed killings and forced displacement.He also seems to support the Popular Defence Forces (PDF), which was created in 1989 by al-Bashir as a loyal paramilitary organisation with an Islamist ideology which in the 1990s fought in the war in South Sudan.Over the past few days, a video from a news broadcast has been widely circulated on social media, which shows General al-Burhan addressing the PDF, calling them the “legitimate sons” of the Sudanese army, and saying that he would never accept their dissolution under any circumstances.Al-Burhan’s deputy, General Hemedti, also has a similar background. In the mid-2000s, he was a commander of the Fut-8 battalion of the Border Guards in Darfur, where, in 2007, he led a rebellion against the army, which had failed to pay his men salaries. He eventually made up with Khartoum and in 2013 he was appointed head of the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF), which absorbed former Janjaweed militia. The move was engineered by al-Bashir to punish Janjaweed leader Sheikh Musa Hilal who had started criticising him.But more recently, not fully trusting Hemedti, al-Bashir began appointing some of his loyalists to the RSF, to ensure the paramilitary force was under tight control. Hemedti was said to have had close ties to Taha al-Hussain, the former director of the president’s office, who was dismissed in 2017 and then swiftly appointed as an adviser at the Saudi ministry of foreign affairs after moving to Riyadh.Since the protests erupted, Hemedti has been careful about his public statements, displaying a great deal of political acumen and opportunism. He distanced himself and his militia from any act of violence against the peaceful protesters and expressed support for the demands of the Sudanese people and respect for human rights.His appointment as a deputy chair of the transitional council prompted outrage on social media and was widely rejected by people in Darfur, Blue Nile and South Kordofan states, where his militia has been committing crimes against the civilian population.Hemedti also appears to be involved with the war effort in Yemen. The fact that the two generals in charge are linked by the major roles they have played in the wars in Darfur and Yemen is not coincidental. The UAE and Saudi Arabia have hastened to recognise the military council, while the African Union and the European Union have both rejected it. General Hemedti, in turn, announced that the Sudanese troops would abide by its commitments to the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen.No doubt, the overthrow of al-Bashir and his close corrupt and brutal clique out of power is a positive development, but what is currently going on is not a full-fledged revolution, like the ones in October 1964 and April 1985. There is yet to be a break with the old regime.It is true that General al-Burhan has struck a conciliatory tone and seemingly accepted the popular demands for freedom, peace and justice. He also made some promises about moving away from the old regime by uprooting it, fighting corruption and pursuing justice and accountability.But there are also plenty of doubts about his true intentions and agenda.There are real concerns that the new transitional military council is just a puppet of the old regime, which was created to buy time and ensure the continuity of the status quo. To date, it is not clear what the fate of figures of the old regime, including al-Bashir, will be and how the military council will deal with the deep state and its militias, security and financial arms.At the same time, tensions within the regime itself remain. The appointment of Hemedti, a commander of a militia who did not graduate from a Sudanese military academy to such a high position within the state is a shocking precedent and could play a detrimental role in Sudanese politics.It shows the weakness of the Sudanese army and the collapse of the Sudanese state institutions. This situation could trigger tensions between different groups in the regime and destabilise the state further.Meanwhile, there are also real fears that the popular opposition could also fragment along generational, ideological, geographical and ethnic lines. A rift between the youth and traditional political forces has started to appear over how to deal with the military council and what political priorities should be pursued.Such divisions could be exploited by the military council and the old regime to carry out a full-fledged counterrevolution. Many regional powers are not interested in seeing the foundations of democracy being laid in Sudan and are ready to do whatever it takes to undermine any peaceful democratic transition.Furthermore, the Sudanese people also fear that their country could descend into chaos and total war, if the change does not come soon.There are many lessons to be learned from the fate of post-independence of Sudan, the October Revolution of 1964, the April Uprising of 1985 and the separation of South Sudan. The popular protest movement has a unique opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, and seek national unity, equal citizenship for all ethnic groups and reconciliation. Only a strong and united popular front could withstand the counter-revolution the Sudanese generals, the deep state and foreign powers would surely launch in order to undermine the revolutionary movement.Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
He also seems to support the Popular Defence Forces (PDF), which was created in 1989 by al-Bashir as a loyal paramilitary organisation with an Islamist ideology which in the 1990s fought in the war in South Sudan.Over the past few days, a video from a news broadcast has been widely circulated on social media, which shows General al-Burhan addressing the PDF, calling them the “legitimate sons” of the Sudanese army, and saying that he would never accept their dissolution under any circumstances.Al-Burhan’s deputy, General Hemedti, also has a similar background. In the mid-2000s, he was a commander of the Fut-8 battalion of the Border Guards in Darfur, where, in 2007, he led a rebellion against the army, which had failed to pay his men salaries. He eventually made up with Khartoum and in 2013 he was appointed head of the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF), which absorbed former Janjaweed militia. The move was engineered by al-Bashir to punish Janjaweed leader Sheikh Musa Hilal who had started criticising him.But more recently, not fully trusting Hemedti, al-Bashir began appointing some of his loyalists to the RSF, to ensure the paramilitary force was under tight control. Hemedti was said to have had close ties to Taha al-Hussain, the former director of the president’s office, who was dismissed in 2017 and then swiftly appointed as an adviser at the Saudi ministry of foreign affairs after moving to Riyadh.Since the protests erupted, Hemedti has been careful about his public statements, displaying a great deal of political acumen and opportunism. He distanced himself and his militia from any act of violence against the peaceful protesters and expressed support for the demands of the Sudanese people and respect for human rights.His appointment as a deputy chair of the transitional council prompted outrage on social media and was widely rejected by people in Darfur, Blue Nile and South Kordofan states, where his militia has been committing crimes against the civilian population.Hemedti also appears to be involved with the war effort in Yemen. The fact that the two generals in charge are linked by the major roles they have played in the wars in Darfur and Yemen is not coincidental. The UAE and Saudi Arabia have hastened to recognise the military council, while the African Union and the European Union have both rejected it. General Hemedti, in turn, announced that the Sudanese troops would abide by its commitments to the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen.No doubt, the overthrow of al-Bashir and his close corrupt and brutal clique out of power is a positive development, but what is currently going on is not a full-fledged revolution, like the ones in October 1964 and April 1985. There is yet to be a break with the old regime.It is true that General al-Burhan has struck a conciliatory tone and seemingly accepted the popular demands for freedom, peace and justice. He also made some promises about moving away from the old regime by uprooting it, fighting corruption and pursuing justice and accountability.But there are also plenty of doubts about his true intentions and agenda.There are real concerns that the new transitional military council is just a puppet of the old regime, which was created to buy time and ensure the continuity of the status quo. To date, it is not clear what the fate of figures of the old regime, including al-Bashir, will be and how the military council will deal with the deep state and its militias, security and financial arms.At the same time, tensions within the regime itself remain. The appointment of Hemedti, a commander of a militia who did not graduate from a Sudanese military academy to such a high position within the state is a shocking precedent and could play a detrimental role in Sudanese politics.It shows the weakness of the Sudanese army and the collapse of the Sudanese state institutions. This situation could trigger tensions between different groups in the regime and destabilise the state further.Meanwhile, there are also real fears that the popular opposition could also fragment along generational, ideological, geographical and ethnic lines. A rift between the youth and traditional political forces has started to appear over how to deal with the military council and what political priorities should be pursued.Such divisions could be exploited by the military council and the old regime to carry out a full-fledged counterrevolution. Many regional powers are not interested in seeing the foundations of democracy being laid in Sudan and are ready to do whatever it takes to undermine any peaceful democratic transition.Furthermore, the Sudanese people also fear that their country could descend into chaos and total war, if the change does not come soon.There are many lessons to be learned from the fate of post-independence of Sudan, the October Revolution of 1964, the April Uprising of 1985 and the separation of South Sudan. The popular protest movement has a unique opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, and seek national unity, equal citizenship for all ethnic groups and reconciliation. Only a strong and united popular front could withstand the counter-revolution the Sudanese generals, the deep state and foreign powers would surely launch in order to undermine the revolutionary movement.Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
Over the past few days, a video from a news broadcast has been widely circulated on social media, which shows General al-Burhan addressing the PDF, calling them the “legitimate sons” of the Sudanese army, and saying that he would never accept their dissolution under any circumstances.Al-Burhan’s deputy, General Hemedti, also has a similar background. In the mid-2000s, he was a commander of the Fut-8 battalion of the Border Guards in Darfur, where, in 2007, he led a rebellion against the army, which had failed to pay his men salaries. He eventually made up with Khartoum and in 2013 he was appointed head of the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF), which absorbed former Janjaweed militia. The move was engineered by al-Bashir to punish Janjaweed leader Sheikh Musa Hilal who had started criticising him.But more recently, not fully trusting Hemedti, al-Bashir began appointing some of his loyalists to the RSF, to ensure the paramilitary force was under tight control. Hemedti was said to have had close ties to Taha al-Hussain, the former director of the president’s office, who was dismissed in 2017 and then swiftly appointed as an adviser at the Saudi ministry of foreign affairs after moving to Riyadh.Since the protests erupted, Hemedti has been careful about his public statements, displaying a great deal of political acumen and opportunism. He distanced himself and his militia from any act of violence against the peaceful protesters and expressed support for the demands of the Sudanese people and respect for human rights.His appointment as a deputy chair of the transitional council prompted outrage on social media and was widely rejected by people in Darfur, Blue Nile and South Kordofan states, where his militia has been committing crimes against the civilian population.Hemedti also appears to be involved with the war effort in Yemen. The fact that the two generals in charge are linked by the major roles they have played in the wars in Darfur and Yemen is not coincidental. The UAE and Saudi Arabia have hastened to recognise the military council, while the African Union and the European Union have both rejected it. General Hemedti, in turn, announced that the Sudanese troops would abide by its commitments to the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen.No doubt, the overthrow of al-Bashir and his close corrupt and brutal clique out of power is a positive development, but what is currently going on is not a full-fledged revolution, like the ones in October 1964 and April 1985. There is yet to be a break with the old regime.It is true that General al-Burhan has struck a conciliatory tone and seemingly accepted the popular demands for freedom, peace and justice. He also made some promises about moving away from the old regime by uprooting it, fighting corruption and pursuing justice and accountability.But there are also plenty of doubts about his true intentions and agenda.There are real concerns that the new transitional military council is just a puppet of the old regime, which was created to buy time and ensure the continuity of the status quo. To date, it is not clear what the fate of figures of the old regime, including al-Bashir, will be and how the military council will deal with the deep state and its militias, security and financial arms.At the same time, tensions within the regime itself remain. The appointment of Hemedti, a commander of a militia who did not graduate from a Sudanese military academy to such a high position within the state is a shocking precedent and could play a detrimental role in Sudanese politics.It shows the weakness of the Sudanese army and the collapse of the Sudanese state institutions. This situation could trigger tensions between different groups in the regime and destabilise the state further.Meanwhile, there are also real fears that the popular opposition could also fragment along generational, ideological, geographical and ethnic lines. A rift between the youth and traditional political forces has started to appear over how to deal with the military council and what political priorities should be pursued.Such divisions could be exploited by the military council and the old regime to carry out a full-fledged counterrevolution. Many regional powers are not interested in seeing the foundations of democracy being laid in Sudan and are ready to do whatever it takes to undermine any peaceful democratic transition.Furthermore, the Sudanese people also fear that their country could descend into chaos and total war, if the change does not come soon.There are many lessons to be learned from the fate of post-independence of Sudan, the October Revolution of 1964, the April Uprising of 1985 and the separation of South Sudan. The popular protest movement has a unique opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, and seek national unity, equal citizenship for all ethnic groups and reconciliation. Only a strong and united popular front could withstand the counter-revolution the Sudanese generals, the deep state and foreign powers would surely launch in order to undermine the revolutionary movement.Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
Al-Burhan’s deputy, General Hemedti, also has a similar background. In the mid-2000s, he was a commander of the Fut-8 battalion of the Border Guards in Darfur, where, in 2007, he led a rebellion against the army, which had failed to pay his men salaries. He eventually made up with Khartoum and in 2013 he was appointed head of the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF), which absorbed former Janjaweed militia. The move was engineered by al-Bashir to punish Janjaweed leader Sheikh Musa Hilal who had started criticising him.But more recently, not fully trusting Hemedti, al-Bashir began appointing some of his loyalists to the RSF, to ensure the paramilitary force was under tight control. Hemedti was said to have had close ties to Taha al-Hussain, the former director of the president’s office, who was dismissed in 2017 and then swiftly appointed as an adviser at the Saudi ministry of foreign affairs after moving to Riyadh.Since the protests erupted, Hemedti has been careful about his public statements, displaying a great deal of political acumen and opportunism. He distanced himself and his militia from any act of violence against the peaceful protesters and expressed support for the demands of the Sudanese people and respect for human rights.His appointment as a deputy chair of the transitional council prompted outrage on social media and was widely rejected by people in Darfur, Blue Nile and South Kordofan states, where his militia has been committing crimes against the civilian population.Hemedti also appears to be involved with the war effort in Yemen. The fact that the two generals in charge are linked by the major roles they have played in the wars in Darfur and Yemen is not coincidental. The UAE and Saudi Arabia have hastened to recognise the military council, while the African Union and the European Union have both rejected it. General Hemedti, in turn, announced that the Sudanese troops would abide by its commitments to the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen.No doubt, the overthrow of al-Bashir and his close corrupt and brutal clique out of power is a positive development, but what is currently going on is not a full-fledged revolution, like the ones in October 1964 and April 1985. There is yet to be a break with the old regime.It is true that General al-Burhan has struck a conciliatory tone and seemingly accepted the popular demands for freedom, peace and justice. He also made some promises about moving away from the old regime by uprooting it, fighting corruption and pursuing justice and accountability.But there are also plenty of doubts about his true intentions and agenda.There are real concerns that the new transitional military council is just a puppet of the old regime, which was created to buy time and ensure the continuity of the status quo. To date, it is not clear what the fate of figures of the old regime, including al-Bashir, will be and how the military council will deal with the deep state and its militias, security and financial arms.At the same time, tensions within the regime itself remain. The appointment of Hemedti, a commander of a militia who did not graduate from a Sudanese military academy to such a high position within the state is a shocking precedent and could play a detrimental role in Sudanese politics.It shows the weakness of the Sudanese army and the collapse of the Sudanese state institutions. This situation could trigger tensions between different groups in the regime and destabilise the state further.Meanwhile, there are also real fears that the popular opposition could also fragment along generational, ideological, geographical and ethnic lines. A rift between the youth and traditional political forces has started to appear over how to deal with the military council and what political priorities should be pursued.Such divisions could be exploited by the military council and the old regime to carry out a full-fledged counterrevolution. Many regional powers are not interested in seeing the foundations of democracy being laid in Sudan and are ready to do whatever it takes to undermine any peaceful democratic transition.Furthermore, the Sudanese people also fear that their country could descend into chaos and total war, if the change does not come soon.There are many lessons to be learned from the fate of post-independence of Sudan, the October Revolution of 1964, the April Uprising of 1985 and the separation of South Sudan. The popular protest movement has a unique opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, and seek national unity, equal citizenship for all ethnic groups and reconciliation. Only a strong and united popular front could withstand the counter-revolution the Sudanese generals, the deep state and foreign powers would surely launch in order to undermine the revolutionary movement.Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
But more recently, not fully trusting Hemedti, al-Bashir began appointing some of his loyalists to the RSF, to ensure the paramilitary force was under tight control. Hemedti was said to have had close ties to Taha al-Hussain, the former director of the president’s office, who was dismissed in 2017 and then swiftly appointed as an adviser at the Saudi ministry of foreign affairs after moving to Riyadh.Since the protests erupted, Hemedti has been careful about his public statements, displaying a great deal of political acumen and opportunism. He distanced himself and his militia from any act of violence against the peaceful protesters and expressed support for the demands of the Sudanese people and respect for human rights.His appointment as a deputy chair of the transitional council prompted outrage on social media and was widely rejected by people in Darfur, Blue Nile and South Kordofan states, where his militia has been committing crimes against the civilian population.Hemedti also appears to be involved with the war effort in Yemen. The fact that the two generals in charge are linked by the major roles they have played in the wars in Darfur and Yemen is not coincidental. The UAE and Saudi Arabia have hastened to recognise the military council, while the African Union and the European Union have both rejected it. General Hemedti, in turn, announced that the Sudanese troops would abide by its commitments to the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen.No doubt, the overthrow of al-Bashir and his close corrupt and brutal clique out of power is a positive development, but what is currently going on is not a full-fledged revolution, like the ones in October 1964 and April 1985. There is yet to be a break with the old regime.It is true that General al-Burhan has struck a conciliatory tone and seemingly accepted the popular demands for freedom, peace and justice. He also made some promises about moving away from the old regime by uprooting it, fighting corruption and pursuing justice and accountability.But there are also plenty of doubts about his true intentions and agenda.There are real concerns that the new transitional military council is just a puppet of the old regime, which was created to buy time and ensure the continuity of the status quo. To date, it is not clear what the fate of figures of the old regime, including al-Bashir, will be and how the military council will deal with the deep state and its militias, security and financial arms.At the same time, tensions within the regime itself remain. The appointment of Hemedti, a commander of a militia who did not graduate from a Sudanese military academy to such a high position within the state is a shocking precedent and could play a detrimental role in Sudanese politics.It shows the weakness of the Sudanese army and the collapse of the Sudanese state institutions. This situation could trigger tensions between different groups in the regime and destabilise the state further.Meanwhile, there are also real fears that the popular opposition could also fragment along generational, ideological, geographical and ethnic lines. A rift between the youth and traditional political forces has started to appear over how to deal with the military council and what political priorities should be pursued.Such divisions could be exploited by the military council and the old regime to carry out a full-fledged counterrevolution. Many regional powers are not interested in seeing the foundations of democracy being laid in Sudan and are ready to do whatever it takes to undermine any peaceful democratic transition.Furthermore, the Sudanese people also fear that their country could descend into chaos and total war, if the change does not come soon.There are many lessons to be learned from the fate of post-independence of Sudan, the October Revolution of 1964, the April Uprising of 1985 and the separation of South Sudan. The popular protest movement has a unique opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, and seek national unity, equal citizenship for all ethnic groups and reconciliation. Only a strong and united popular front could withstand the counter-revolution the Sudanese generals, the deep state and foreign powers would surely launch in order to undermine the revolutionary movement.Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
Since the protests erupted, Hemedti has been careful about his public statements, displaying a great deal of political acumen and opportunism. He distanced himself and his militia from any act of violence against the peaceful protesters and expressed support for the demands of the Sudanese people and respect for human rights.His appointment as a deputy chair of the transitional council prompted outrage on social media and was widely rejected by people in Darfur, Blue Nile and South Kordofan states, where his militia has been committing crimes against the civilian population.Hemedti also appears to be involved with the war effort in Yemen. The fact that the two generals in charge are linked by the major roles they have played in the wars in Darfur and Yemen is not coincidental. The UAE and Saudi Arabia have hastened to recognise the military council, while the African Union and the European Union have both rejected it. General Hemedti, in turn, announced that the Sudanese troops would abide by its commitments to the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen.No doubt, the overthrow of al-Bashir and his close corrupt and brutal clique out of power is a positive development, but what is currently going on is not a full-fledged revolution, like the ones in October 1964 and April 1985. There is yet to be a break with the old regime.It is true that General al-Burhan has struck a conciliatory tone and seemingly accepted the popular demands for freedom, peace and justice. He also made some promises about moving away from the old regime by uprooting it, fighting corruption and pursuing justice and accountability.But there are also plenty of doubts about his true intentions and agenda.There are real concerns that the new transitional military council is just a puppet of the old regime, which was created to buy time and ensure the continuity of the status quo. To date, it is not clear what the fate of figures of the old regime, including al-Bashir, will be and how the military council will deal with the deep state and its militias, security and financial arms.At the same time, tensions within the regime itself remain. The appointment of Hemedti, a commander of a militia who did not graduate from a Sudanese military academy to such a high position within the state is a shocking precedent and could play a detrimental role in Sudanese politics.It shows the weakness of the Sudanese army and the collapse of the Sudanese state institutions. This situation could trigger tensions between different groups in the regime and destabilise the state further.Meanwhile, there are also real fears that the popular opposition could also fragment along generational, ideological, geographical and ethnic lines. A rift between the youth and traditional political forces has started to appear over how to deal with the military council and what political priorities should be pursued.Such divisions could be exploited by the military council and the old regime to carry out a full-fledged counterrevolution. Many regional powers are not interested in seeing the foundations of democracy being laid in Sudan and are ready to do whatever it takes to undermine any peaceful democratic transition.Furthermore, the Sudanese people also fear that their country could descend into chaos and total war, if the change does not come soon.There are many lessons to be learned from the fate of post-independence of Sudan, the October Revolution of 1964, the April Uprising of 1985 and the separation of South Sudan. The popular protest movement has a unique opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, and seek national unity, equal citizenship for all ethnic groups and reconciliation. Only a strong and united popular front could withstand the counter-revolution the Sudanese generals, the deep state and foreign powers would surely launch in order to undermine the revolutionary movement.Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
His appointment as a deputy chair of the transitional council prompted outrage on social media and was widely rejected by people in Darfur, Blue Nile and South Kordofan states, where his militia has been committing crimes against the civilian population.Hemedti also appears to be involved with the war effort in Yemen. The fact that the two generals in charge are linked by the major roles they have played in the wars in Darfur and Yemen is not coincidental. The UAE and Saudi Arabia have hastened to recognise the military council, while the African Union and the European Union have both rejected it. General Hemedti, in turn, announced that the Sudanese troops would abide by its commitments to the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen.No doubt, the overthrow of al-Bashir and his close corrupt and brutal clique out of power is a positive development, but what is currently going on is not a full-fledged revolution, like the ones in October 1964 and April 1985. There is yet to be a break with the old regime.It is true that General al-Burhan has struck a conciliatory tone and seemingly accepted the popular demands for freedom, peace and justice. He also made some promises about moving away from the old regime by uprooting it, fighting corruption and pursuing justice and accountability.But there are also plenty of doubts about his true intentions and agenda.There are real concerns that the new transitional military council is just a puppet of the old regime, which was created to buy time and ensure the continuity of the status quo. To date, it is not clear what the fate of figures of the old regime, including al-Bashir, will be and how the military council will deal with the deep state and its militias, security and financial arms.At the same time, tensions within the regime itself remain. The appointment of Hemedti, a commander of a militia who did not graduate from a Sudanese military academy to such a high position within the state is a shocking precedent and could play a detrimental role in Sudanese politics.It shows the weakness of the Sudanese army and the collapse of the Sudanese state institutions. This situation could trigger tensions between different groups in the regime and destabilise the state further.Meanwhile, there are also real fears that the popular opposition could also fragment along generational, ideological, geographical and ethnic lines. A rift between the youth and traditional political forces has started to appear over how to deal with the military council and what political priorities should be pursued.Such divisions could be exploited by the military council and the old regime to carry out a full-fledged counterrevolution. Many regional powers are not interested in seeing the foundations of democracy being laid in Sudan and are ready to do whatever it takes to undermine any peaceful democratic transition.Furthermore, the Sudanese people also fear that their country could descend into chaos and total war, if the change does not come soon.There are many lessons to be learned from the fate of post-independence of Sudan, the October Revolution of 1964, the April Uprising of 1985 and the separation of South Sudan. The popular protest movement has a unique opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, and seek national unity, equal citizenship for all ethnic groups and reconciliation. Only a strong and united popular front could withstand the counter-revolution the Sudanese generals, the deep state and foreign powers would surely launch in order to undermine the revolutionary movement.Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
Hemedti also appears to be involved with the war effort in Yemen. The fact that the two generals in charge are linked by the major roles they have played in the wars in Darfur and Yemen is not coincidental. The UAE and Saudi Arabia have hastened to recognise the military council, while the African Union and the European Union have both rejected it. General Hemedti, in turn, announced that the Sudanese troops would abide by its commitments to the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen.No doubt, the overthrow of al-Bashir and his close corrupt and brutal clique out of power is a positive development, but what is currently going on is not a full-fledged revolution, like the ones in October 1964 and April 1985. There is yet to be a break with the old regime.It is true that General al-Burhan has struck a conciliatory tone and seemingly accepted the popular demands for freedom, peace and justice. He also made some promises about moving away from the old regime by uprooting it, fighting corruption and pursuing justice and accountability.But there are also plenty of doubts about his true intentions and agenda.There are real concerns that the new transitional military council is just a puppet of the old regime, which was created to buy time and ensure the continuity of the status quo. To date, it is not clear what the fate of figures of the old regime, including al-Bashir, will be and how the military council will deal with the deep state and its militias, security and financial arms.At the same time, tensions within the regime itself remain. The appointment of Hemedti, a commander of a militia who did not graduate from a Sudanese military academy to such a high position within the state is a shocking precedent and could play a detrimental role in Sudanese politics.It shows the weakness of the Sudanese army and the collapse of the Sudanese state institutions. This situation could trigger tensions between different groups in the regime and destabilise the state further.Meanwhile, there are also real fears that the popular opposition could also fragment along generational, ideological, geographical and ethnic lines. A rift between the youth and traditional political forces has started to appear over how to deal with the military council and what political priorities should be pursued.Such divisions could be exploited by the military council and the old regime to carry out a full-fledged counterrevolution. Many regional powers are not interested in seeing the foundations of democracy being laid in Sudan and are ready to do whatever it takes to undermine any peaceful democratic transition.Furthermore, the Sudanese people also fear that their country could descend into chaos and total war, if the change does not come soon.There are many lessons to be learned from the fate of post-independence of Sudan, the October Revolution of 1964, the April Uprising of 1985 and the separation of South Sudan. The popular protest movement has a unique opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, and seek national unity, equal citizenship for all ethnic groups and reconciliation. Only a strong and united popular front could withstand the counter-revolution the Sudanese generals, the deep state and foreign powers would surely launch in order to undermine the revolutionary movement.Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
No doubt, the overthrow of al-Bashir and his close corrupt and brutal clique out of power is a positive development, but what is currently going on is not a full-fledged revolution, like the ones in October 1964 and April 1985. There is yet to be a break with the old regime.It is true that General al-Burhan has struck a conciliatory tone and seemingly accepted the popular demands for freedom, peace and justice. He also made some promises about moving away from the old regime by uprooting it, fighting corruption and pursuing justice and accountability.But there are also plenty of doubts about his true intentions and agenda.There are real concerns that the new transitional military council is just a puppet of the old regime, which was created to buy time and ensure the continuity of the status quo. To date, it is not clear what the fate of figures of the old regime, including al-Bashir, will be and how the military council will deal with the deep state and its militias, security and financial arms.At the same time, tensions within the regime itself remain. The appointment of Hemedti, a commander of a militia who did not graduate from a Sudanese military academy to such a high position within the state is a shocking precedent and could play a detrimental role in Sudanese politics.It shows the weakness of the Sudanese army and the collapse of the Sudanese state institutions. This situation could trigger tensions between different groups in the regime and destabilise the state further.Meanwhile, there are also real fears that the popular opposition could also fragment along generational, ideological, geographical and ethnic lines. A rift between the youth and traditional political forces has started to appear over how to deal with the military council and what political priorities should be pursued.Such divisions could be exploited by the military council and the old regime to carry out a full-fledged counterrevolution. Many regional powers are not interested in seeing the foundations of democracy being laid in Sudan and are ready to do whatever it takes to undermine any peaceful democratic transition.Furthermore, the Sudanese people also fear that their country could descend into chaos and total war, if the change does not come soon.There are many lessons to be learned from the fate of post-independence of Sudan, the October Revolution of 1964, the April Uprising of 1985 and the separation of South Sudan. The popular protest movement has a unique opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, and seek national unity, equal citizenship for all ethnic groups and reconciliation. Only a strong and united popular front could withstand the counter-revolution the Sudanese generals, the deep state and foreign powers would surely launch in order to undermine the revolutionary movement.Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
It is true that General al-Burhan has struck a conciliatory tone and seemingly accepted the popular demands for freedom, peace and justice. He also made some promises about moving away from the old regime by uprooting it, fighting corruption and pursuing justice and accountability.But there are also plenty of doubts about his true intentions and agenda.There are real concerns that the new transitional military council is just a puppet of the old regime, which was created to buy time and ensure the continuity of the status quo. To date, it is not clear what the fate of figures of the old regime, including al-Bashir, will be and how the military council will deal with the deep state and its militias, security and financial arms.At the same time, tensions within the regime itself remain. The appointment of Hemedti, a commander of a militia who did not graduate from a Sudanese military academy to such a high position within the state is a shocking precedent and could play a detrimental role in Sudanese politics.It shows the weakness of the Sudanese army and the collapse of the Sudanese state institutions. This situation could trigger tensions between different groups in the regime and destabilise the state further.Meanwhile, there are also real fears that the popular opposition could also fragment along generational, ideological, geographical and ethnic lines. A rift between the youth and traditional political forces has started to appear over how to deal with the military council and what political priorities should be pursued.Such divisions could be exploited by the military council and the old regime to carry out a full-fledged counterrevolution. Many regional powers are not interested in seeing the foundations of democracy being laid in Sudan and are ready to do whatever it takes to undermine any peaceful democratic transition.Furthermore, the Sudanese people also fear that their country could descend into chaos and total war, if the change does not come soon.There are many lessons to be learned from the fate of post-independence of Sudan, the October Revolution of 1964, the April Uprising of 1985 and the separation of South Sudan. The popular protest movement has a unique opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, and seek national unity, equal citizenship for all ethnic groups and reconciliation. Only a strong and united popular front could withstand the counter-revolution the Sudanese generals, the deep state and foreign powers would surely launch in order to undermine the revolutionary movement.Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
There are real concerns that the new transitional military council is just a puppet of the old regime, which was created to buy time and ensure the continuity of the status quo. To date, it is not clear what the fate of figures of the old regime, including al-Bashir, will be and how the military council will deal with the deep state and its militias, security and financial arms.At the same time, tensions within the regime itself remain. The appointment of Hemedti, a commander of a militia who did not graduate from a Sudanese military academy to such a high position within the state is a shocking precedent and could play a detrimental role in Sudanese politics.It shows the weakness of the Sudanese army and the collapse of the Sudanese state institutions. This situation could trigger tensions between different groups in the regime and destabilise the state further.Meanwhile, there are also real fears that the popular opposition could also fragment along generational, ideological, geographical and ethnic lines. A rift between the youth and traditional political forces has started to appear over how to deal with the military council and what political priorities should be pursued.Such divisions could be exploited by the military council and the old regime to carry out a full-fledged counterrevolution. Many regional powers are not interested in seeing the foundations of democracy being laid in Sudan and are ready to do whatever it takes to undermine any peaceful democratic transition.Furthermore, the Sudanese people also fear that their country could descend into chaos and total war, if the change does not come soon.There are many lessons to be learned from the fate of post-independence of Sudan, the October Revolution of 1964, the April Uprising of 1985 and the separation of South Sudan. The popular protest movement has a unique opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, and seek national unity, equal citizenship for all ethnic groups and reconciliation. Only a strong and united popular front could withstand the counter-revolution the Sudanese generals, the deep state and foreign powers would surely launch in order to undermine the revolutionary movement.Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
At the same time, tensions within the regime itself remain. The appointment of Hemedti, a commander of a militia who did not graduate from a Sudanese military academy to such a high position within the state is a shocking precedent and could play a detrimental role in Sudanese politics.It shows the weakness of the Sudanese army and the collapse of the Sudanese state institutions. This situation could trigger tensions between different groups in the regime and destabilise the state further.Meanwhile, there are also real fears that the popular opposition could also fragment along generational, ideological, geographical and ethnic lines. A rift between the youth and traditional political forces has started to appear over how to deal with the military council and what political priorities should be pursued.Such divisions could be exploited by the military council and the old regime to carry out a full-fledged counterrevolution. Many regional powers are not interested in seeing the foundations of democracy being laid in Sudan and are ready to do whatever it takes to undermine any peaceful democratic transition.Furthermore, the Sudanese people also fear that their country could descend into chaos and total war, if the change does not come soon.There are many lessons to be learned from the fate of post-independence of Sudan, the October Revolution of 1964, the April Uprising of 1985 and the separation of South Sudan. The popular protest movement has a unique opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, and seek national unity, equal citizenship for all ethnic groups and reconciliation. Only a strong and united popular front could withstand the counter-revolution the Sudanese generals, the deep state and foreign powers would surely launch in order to undermine the revolutionary movement.Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
It shows the weakness of the Sudanese army and the collapse of the Sudanese state institutions. This situation could trigger tensions between different groups in the regime and destabilise the state further.Meanwhile, there are also real fears that the popular opposition could also fragment along generational, ideological, geographical and ethnic lines. A rift between the youth and traditional political forces has started to appear over how to deal with the military council and what political priorities should be pursued.Such divisions could be exploited by the military council and the old regime to carry out a full-fledged counterrevolution. Many regional powers are not interested in seeing the foundations of democracy being laid in Sudan and are ready to do whatever it takes to undermine any peaceful democratic transition.Furthermore, the Sudanese people also fear that their country could descend into chaos and total war, if the change does not come soon.There are many lessons to be learned from the fate of post-independence of Sudan, the October Revolution of 1964, the April Uprising of 1985 and the separation of South Sudan. The popular protest movement has a unique opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, and seek national unity, equal citizenship for all ethnic groups and reconciliation. Only a strong and united popular front could withstand the counter-revolution the Sudanese generals, the deep state and foreign powers would surely launch in order to undermine the revolutionary movement.Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
Meanwhile, there are also real fears that the popular opposition could also fragment along generational, ideological, geographical and ethnic lines. A rift between the youth and traditional political forces has started to appear over how to deal with the military council and what political priorities should be pursued.Such divisions could be exploited by the military council and the old regime to carry out a full-fledged counterrevolution. Many regional powers are not interested in seeing the foundations of democracy being laid in Sudan and are ready to do whatever it takes to undermine any peaceful democratic transition.Furthermore, the Sudanese people also fear that their country could descend into chaos and total war, if the change does not come soon.There are many lessons to be learned from the fate of post-independence of Sudan, the October Revolution of 1964, the April Uprising of 1985 and the separation of South Sudan. The popular protest movement has a unique opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, and seek national unity, equal citizenship for all ethnic groups and reconciliation. Only a strong and united popular front could withstand the counter-revolution the Sudanese generals, the deep state and foreign powers would surely launch in order to undermine the revolutionary movement.Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
Such divisions could be exploited by the military council and the old regime to carry out a full-fledged counterrevolution. Many regional powers are not interested in seeing the foundations of democracy being laid in Sudan and are ready to do whatever it takes to undermine any peaceful democratic transition.Furthermore, the Sudanese people also fear that their country could descend into chaos and total war, if the change does not come soon.There are many lessons to be learned from the fate of post-independence of Sudan, the October Revolution of 1964, the April Uprising of 1985 and the separation of South Sudan. The popular protest movement has a unique opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, and seek national unity, equal citizenship for all ethnic groups and reconciliation. Only a strong and united popular front could withstand the counter-revolution the Sudanese generals, the deep state and foreign powers would surely launch in order to undermine the revolutionary movement.Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
Furthermore, the Sudanese people also fear that their country could descend into chaos and total war, if the change does not come soon.There are many lessons to be learned from the fate of post-independence of Sudan, the October Revolution of 1964, the April Uprising of 1985 and the separation of South Sudan. The popular protest movement has a unique opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, and seek national unity, equal citizenship for all ethnic groups and reconciliation. Only a strong and united popular front could withstand the counter-revolution the Sudanese generals, the deep state and foreign powers would surely launch in order to undermine the revolutionary movement.Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
There are many lessons to be learned from the fate of post-independence of Sudan, the October Revolution of 1964, the April Uprising of 1985 and the separation of South Sudan. The popular protest movement has a unique opportunity not to repeat the mistakes of the past, and seek national unity, equal citizenship for all ethnic groups and reconciliation. Only a strong and united popular front could withstand the counter-revolution the Sudanese generals, the deep state and foreign powers would surely launch in order to undermine the revolutionary movement.Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
Excerpted from: ‘The political calculations of Sudan’s military regime’.Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
Courtesy: Aljazeera.com
Laissez-faire economics is no guarantor of rapid growth, and no cure for our urgent problems
Number of out-of-school children has gone up from approximately 22 million to 25.6 million over the past decade
Political instability is the first fault line disturbing economic security
There are many elements of Musakhel attack that are disturbing
There are numerous examples of how strong technocratic governments have transformed nations
Young man from Mian Channu stood proudly atop the podium as Pakistan’s flag was hoisted high
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: Who are Sudan's military leaders? | The National
World
13 April, 2019

Title: Neighbours, world powers anxiously watch post-Bashir Sudan - Digital Journal
Hi, what are you looking for?
By
Published
The ousting of Sudan president Omar al-Bashir by the army brought the curtain down on 30 years of iron-fisted rule in the northeastern African nation but failed to quell the anger of protesters who remain encamped outside army headquarters.
Few international or regional powers shed public tears over the fall of a man who presided over years of civil war, the break-up of his country and is wanted by the International Criminal Court (ICC) for war crimes in the region of Darfur.
But with protesters fearing that even with Bashir gone the military takeover heralds no meaningful change, the situation remains combustible in the Red Sea state of some 43 million, which borders seven countries.
How are world and regional powers viewing the takeover and what would be the consequences outside Sudan of a prolonged period of violence and instability?
- African neighbours at risk -
Sudan sits nestled in a hugely diverse region in northeast Africa bordered by regional powerhouse Egypt to the north, with strife-torn states like Libya and Chad to the west and key regional player Ethiopia to the south.
According to the International Crisis Group, Sudan is "surrounded by neighbours facing internal difficulties of their own" and should Sudan descend into chaos, "the turmoil could spill across borders".
A wary observer of events in its bigger neighbour is South Sudan, which was created in 2011 as an independent state after years of fighting under Bashir and has itself been beset by conflict. Sudan remains a guarantor of South Sudan's own peace agreement.
- Export violence to Chad? -
But the biggest potential flashpoint could be Chad, where the government is fighting both Libya-based rebels and Islamist Boko Haram extremists.
Analysts expressed concern over the naming of Mohammad Hamdan Daglo as the deputy chief of Sudanese military council. Widely known as Himeidti, he heads the feared Rapid Support Force (RSF) that grew out of the "janjaweed" militia accused of abuses in Darfur.
"If Himeidti sufficiently reinforces his power he could be tempted to destabilise Chad," said Jerome Tubiana, an independent researcher specialising in Sudan.
"The RSF are heavily armed and extremely dangerous. They could also export their violence to Libya and the Central African Republic," he told AFP.
- Trouble for Darfur -
The changes in Khartoum come with the conflict in Sudan's Darfur region -- which broke out in 2003 when rebels took up arms against Khartoum, accusing it of neglecting the region -- still unresolved.
According to Tubiana, "there has been no resolution to the Darfur question and the repression is continuing", with the local population and Sudanese security forces still at odds.
The situation is further complicated by the fact that Darfur rebels were currently fighting alongside the militia of strongman Khalifa Haftar in Libya as he seeks to take Tripoli, he added.
"They could be tempted to return to Sudan to remind Khartoum to take account of Darfur," said Tubiana.
- Heavyweight neighbours fear Islamists -
Sudan's neighbour Egypt, and Cairo's influential Gulf allies the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, have raised no objection to the fall of Bashir.
Cairo last week expressed its "complete support" for the Sudanese people and, crucially, the army.
The situation in Sudan has drawn some parallels with that in Algeria, where popular protests won the resignation of ailing leader Abdelaziz Bouteflika but where the existing military elite is still very much in power.
Analysts say the last thing Cairo, Abu Dhabi or Riyadh want in Sudan and Algeria is any kind of popular uprising that could bring to power the Islamist Muslim Brotherhood, which they vehemently oppose.
"If they are offered a military and pro-Arab authority, then they are okay with that even if it uses militia and is violent," said Tubiana.
- EU, US cautious -
The European Union and United States have trod nearly as carefully while calling for civilians to be brought into the government.
Ethiopia under prime minister Abiy Ahmed and Turkey, whose President Recep Tayyip Erdogan repeatedly hosted Bashir in defiance of the ICC warrant, have also kept their distance.
There is also little chance Sudan's current military authorities, many of whom were themselves involved in the Darfur conflict, will hand Bashir over to the ICC in The Hague to face trial.
In a possible recognition of who currently holds the cards, the US envoy to Khartoum on Sunday Steven Koutsis met key military figures in Khartoum including Himeidti.
"Washington should step up its coordination with the Gulf States and regional leaders such as Prime Minister Abiy of Ethiopia to press both sides to compromise," said Judd Devermont, director of the Africa Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
The ousting of Sudan president Omar al-Bashir by the army brought the curtain down on 30 years of iron-fisted rule in the northeastern African nation but failed to quell the anger of protesters who remain encamped outside army headquarters.
Few international or regional powers shed public tears over the fall of a man who presided over years of civil war, the break-up of his country and is wanted by the International Criminal Court (ICC) for war crimes in the region of Darfur.
But with protesters fearing that even with Bashir gone the military takeover heralds no meaningful change, the situation remains combustible in the Red Sea state of some 43 million, which borders seven countries.
How are world and regional powers viewing the takeover and what would be the consequences outside Sudan of a prolonged period of violence and instability?
– African neighbours at risk –
Sudan sits nestled in a hugely diverse region in northeast Africa bordered by regional powerhouse Egypt to the north, with strife-torn states like Libya and Chad to the west and key regional player Ethiopia to the south.
According to the International Crisis Group, Sudan is “surrounded by neighbours facing internal difficulties of their own” and should Sudan descend into chaos, “the turmoil could spill across borders”.
A wary observer of events in its bigger neighbour is South Sudan, which was created in 2011 as an independent state after years of fighting under Bashir and has itself been beset by conflict. Sudan remains a guarantor of South Sudan’s own peace agreement.
– Export violence to Chad? –
But the biggest potential flashpoint could be Chad, where the government is fighting both Libya-based rebels and Islamist Boko Haram extremists.
Analysts expressed concern over the naming of Mohammad Hamdan Daglo as the deputy chief of Sudanese military council. Widely known as Himeidti, he heads the feared Rapid Support Force (RSF) that grew out of the “janjaweed” militia accused of abuses in Darfur.
“If Himeidti sufficiently reinforces his power he could be tempted to destabilise Chad,” said Jerome Tubiana, an independent researcher specialising in Sudan.
“The RSF are heavily armed and extremely dangerous. They could also export their violence to Libya and the Central African Republic,” he told AFP.
– Trouble for Darfur –
The changes in Khartoum come with the conflict in Sudan’s Darfur region — which broke out in 2003 when rebels took up arms against Khartoum, accusing it of neglecting the region — still unresolved.
According to Tubiana, “there has been no resolution to the Darfur question and the repression is continuing”, with the local population and Sudanese security forces still at odds.
The situation is further complicated by the fact that Darfur rebels were currently fighting alongside the militia of strongman Khalifa Haftar in Libya as he seeks to take Tripoli, he added.
“They could be tempted to return to Sudan to remind Khartoum to take account of Darfur,” said Tubiana.
– Heavyweight neighbours fear Islamists –
Sudan’s neighbour Egypt, and Cairo’s influential Gulf allies the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, have raised no objection to the fall of Bashir.
Cairo last week expressed its “complete support” for the Sudanese people and, crucially, the army.
The situation in Sudan has drawn some parallels with that in Algeria, where popular protests won the resignation of ailing leader Abdelaziz Bouteflika but where the existing military elite is still very much in power.
Analysts say the last thing Cairo, Abu Dhabi or Riyadh want in Sudan and Algeria is any kind of popular uprising that could bring to power the Islamist Muslim Brotherhood, which they vehemently oppose.
“If they are offered a military and pro-Arab authority, then they are okay with that even if it uses militia and is violent,” said Tubiana.
– EU, US cautious –
The European Union and United States have trod nearly as carefully while calling for civilians to be brought into the government.
Ethiopia under prime minister Abiy Ahmed and Turkey, whose President Recep Tayyip Erdogan repeatedly hosted Bashir in defiance of the ICC warrant, have also kept their distance.
There is also little chance Sudan’s current military authorities, many of whom were themselves involved in the Darfur conflict, will hand Bashir over to the ICC in The Hague to face trial.
In a possible recognition of who currently holds the cards, the US envoy to Khartoum on Sunday Steven Koutsis met key military figures in Khartoum including Himeidti.
“Washington should step up its coordination with the Gulf States and regional leaders such as Prime Minister Abiy of Ethiopia to press both sides to compromise,” said Judd Devermont, director of the Africa Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
With 2,400 staff representing 100 different nationalities, AFP covers the world as a leading global news agency. AFP provides fast, comprehensive and verified coverage of the issues affecting our daily lives.
Dennis Quaid and Penelope Ann Miller star as Ronald and Nancy Reagan in the new film "Reagan."
Pavel Durov comes from Saint Petersburg. — © AFPThibault Marchand and Stuart WilliamsRussian-born tech entrepreneur Pavel Durov has founded wildly popular social networks, cryptocurrencies,...
The Telegram case can redefine social media with a sledgehammer.  About time.
A Brazilian Supreme Court judge threatened to suspend X, formerly Twitter, if CEO Elon Musk doesn't name a new legal representative.
COPYRIGHT © 1998 - 2024 DIGITAL JOURNAL INC. Sitemaps:XML/News.
Digital Journal is not responsible for the content of external sites.Read more about our external linking.

Title: Neighbours, world powers anxiously watch post-Bashir Sudan | The Citizen
Home»News»World»Africa
ByAgence France Presse
4 minute read
15 Apr 2019
03:09 pm
Sudan’s Omar al-Bashir may have been ousted but the military council ruling the country is packed with members of his regime. AFP/-
Few international or regional powers shed public tears over the fall of a man who presided over years of civil war, the break-up of his country and is wanted by the International Criminal Court (ICC) for war crimes in the region of Darfur.
But with protesters fearing that even with Bashir gone the military takeover heralds no meaningful change, the situation remains combustible in the Red Sea state of some 43 million, which borders seven countries.
How are world and regional powers viewing the takeover and what would be the consequences outside Sudan of a prolonged period of violence and instability?
– African neighbours at risk –
Sudan sits nestled in a hugely diverse region in northeast Africa bordered by regional powerhouse Egypt to the north, with strife-torn states like Libya and Chad to the west and key regional player Ethiopia to the south.

According to the International Crisis Group, Sudan is “surrounded by neighbours facing internal difficulties of their own” and should Sudan descend into chaos, “the turmoil could spill across borders”.
A wary observer of events in its bigger neighbour is South Sudan, which was created in 2011 as an independent state after years of fighting under Bashir and has itself been beset by conflict. Sudan remains a guarantor of South Sudan’s own peace agreement.
– Export violence to Chad? –
But the biggest potential flashpoint could be Chad, where the government is fighting both Libya-based rebels and Islamist Boko Haram extremists.
Analysts expressed concern over the naming of Mohammad Hamdan Daglo as the deputy chief of Sudanese military council. Widely known as Himeidti, he heads the feared Rapid Support Force (RSF) that grew out of the “janjaweed” militia accused of abuses in Darfur.
“If Himeidti sufficiently reinforces his power he could be tempted to destabilise Chad,” said Jerome Tubiana, an independent researcher specialising in Sudan.
“The RSF are heavily armed and extremely dangerous. They could also export their violence to Libya and the Central African Republic,” he told AFP.
– Trouble for Darfur –
The changes in Khartoum come with the conflict in Sudan’s Darfur region — which broke out in 2003 when rebels took up arms against Khartoum, accusing it of neglecting the region — still unresolved.
According to Tubiana, “there has been no resolution to the Darfur question and the repression is continuing”, with the local population and Sudanese security forces still at odds.
The situation is further complicated by the fact that Darfur rebels were currently fighting alongside the militia of strongman Khalifa Haftar in Libya as he seeks to take Tripoli, he added.
“They could be tempted to return to Sudan to remind Khartoum to take account of Darfur,” said Tubiana.
– Heavyweight neighbours fear Islamists –
Sudan’s neighbour Egypt, and Cairo’s influential Gulf allies the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, have raised no objection to the fall of Bashir.
Cairo last week expressed its “complete support” for the Sudanese people and, crucially, the army.
The situation in Sudan has drawn some parallels with that in Algeria, where popular protests won the resignation of ailing leader Abdelaziz Bouteflika but where the existing military elite is still very much in power.
Analysts say the last thing Cairo, Abu Dhabi or Riyadh want in Sudan and Algeria is any kind of popular uprising that could bring to power the Islamist Muslim Brotherhood, which they vehemently oppose.
“If they are offered a military and pro-Arab authority, then they are okay with that even if it uses militia and is violent,” said Tubiana.
– EU, US cautious –
The European Union and United States have trod nearly as carefully while calling for civilians to be brought into the government.
Ethiopia under prime minister Abiy Ahmed and Turkey, whose President Recep Tayyip Erdogan repeatedly hosted Bashir in defiance of the ICC warrant, have also kept their distance.
There is also little chance Sudan’s current military authorities, many of whom were themselves involved in the Darfur conflict, will hand Bashir over to the ICC in The Hague to face trial.
In a possible recognition of who currently holds the cards, the US envoy to Khartoum on Sunday Steven Koutsis met key military figures in Khartoum including Himeidti.
“Washington should step up its coordination with the Gulf States and regional leaders such as Prime Minister Abiy of Ethiopia to press both sides to compromise,” said Judd Devermont, director of the Africa Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
Download our app and read this and other great stories on the move. Available for Android and iOS.
Download The Citizen App for IOS and Android
Click hereto getThe Citizen news and updateson Whatsapp.
Do not miss a single story.Get all the latest news in your inbox.
2024 The Citizen. All Rights Reserved.

Title: Factbox: Leading Sudanese Security Figures
Print
Officers who ousted President Omar al-Bashir from three decades in power have announced that a military council will run Sudan for a transitional period lasting up to two years, followed by elections.But the man who announced Bashir's ouster stepped down as head of the now-ruling Transitional Military Council (TMC) after only a day in the post.
The new 10-member ruling council, now headed by Lieutenant General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, has said the transition can last much less than two years if chaos is avoided, and it is negotiating with the protesters on a transitional cabinet.
The TMC is staffed by senior military commanders comprising mainly the heads of the various branches of the armed forces as well as the commander of the Rapid Support Forces, a paramilitary force under the military, the chief of police and a representative of the intelligence service.
Several members of the council were promoted to their current positions by Bashir in February as part of a regular reshuffle of the armed forces.
Ibn Auf, who Burhan replaced, was promoted by Bashir to vice president in February as protests intensified. He was known for his Islamist links.
Below are brief penpix of leading figures in Sudan's security establishment:Abdel Fattah al-Burhan
General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, the new head of the TMC, was born in 1960 in the state of River Nile. He served as inspector general of the Sudanese armed forces and was its third most senior general, but was virtually unknown in public life.
He was the head of Sudan's ground forces, a role in which he oversaw Sudanese troops serving in a Saudi-led military coalition fighting in Yemen. His role in Yemen has given him ties to senior Gulf military officials, including from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia.
It is not clear if Burhan has Islamist leanings.Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo
General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, commonly known by his nickname Hemedti, is deputy head of the TMC, and the second most powerful man on the council. He was appointed by Burhan and replaced Kamal Abdelmarouf al-Mahi.
Born in 1975, he commands the Rapid Support Forces, a paramilitary group that grew out of the Janjaweed militia, which operated in Sudan's western Darfur region. The government had denied any wrongdoing by the RSF.
Like Burhan, Hemedti had been involved in supervising Sudanese forces fighting in Yemen and thus has strong connections with fellow UAE and Saudi officers.
Hemedti was a prominent figure in Bashir's ruling circle, but it is not known whether he has Islamist leanings.Omar Zain al-Abideen
Lieutenant General Omar Zain al-Abideen was deputy head of Sudan's military production. He was introduced as head of the political committee of the TMC headed by Ibn Auf in its first press conference after Bashir's ouster.
He remains the head of the TMC's political committee under Burhan, and is widely seen as the council's main political strategist. He is widely believed to have Islamist leanings.Jalal al-Deen al-Sheikh
Lieutenant General Jalal al-Deen al-Sheikh, who was a military officer, was brought out of retirement by Bashir and promoted to the post of deputy director of the country's powerful National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS) in February.
He was deputy to Salah Abdallah Mohamed Saleh, commonly known as Salah Gosh, who tendered his resignation as head of NISS last Friday. Gosh was once seen as the most powerful person in the country after Bashir and protesters held him responsible for the killing of demonstrators demanding an end to military rule.
Sheikh is also widely believed to have Islamist leanings.
Sheikh graduated from military college in the same year as Burhan and Abideen, and the three have close relations.
Al-Tayeb Babakr Ali Fadeel
Born in the village of Shaqlawa, northeast of the capital Khartoum, Lieutenant General Al-Tayeb Babakr Ali Fadeel made his way up the ladder of the country's police force until he was promoted by Bashir to the head of police in February 2018.
Reuters is a news agency founded in 1851 and owned by the Thomson Reuters Corporation based in Toronto, Canada. One of the world's largest wire services, it provides financial news as well as international coverage in over 16 languages to more than 1000 newspapers and 750 broadcasters around the globe.


Title: RSF militia commander sworn-in as Sudan’s interim Vice-President - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
The commander of the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) Lt Gen Mohamed Hamdan (aka Hemeti), has been appointed as the interim vice-president of Sudan.
The commander of the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) Lt Gen Mohamed Hamdan (aka Hemeti), has been appointed as the interim vice-president of Sudan.
Now second-in-command to the interim president, and head of the military council Lt Gen Abdelfattah Burhan, Hemeti is a controversial figure. It is under his leadership that the RSF has been involved in or perpetrated uncountable raids, murders, rapes, abductions, robberies, and all manner of violence, especially in Darfur and the Two Areas (Blue Nile state and South Kordofan).
Hemeti was sworn-in this evening at a ceremony presided over by the Chief Justice of Sudan and president of the national Supreme Court, Justice Abdelmajid Idris.
Controversial
Hemeti’s appointment has already met with international criticism and condemnation. On social media, respected prominent US-based Sudan researcher and analyst,Prof Eric Reeves, commented: “The brutal, genocidal regime over which Al Bashir presided for 30 years is evidently intent on re-constituting itself. The role of Hemeti, head of the Rapid Support Forces, is one measure of how ruthless the military council is, and how far from civilian rule. Hemeti is a brutal, savagely violent man who can have no place in Sudan's governance.”
In addition to Burham and Hemeti, the interim military council will consist of eight senior officers in the army, police, NISS, and Air Force.

Interim Military Council sworn-in in Khartoum this evening:
Interim Military Council
Visitwww.dabangasudan.orgfor ongoing coverage and independent news from Sudan

Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: 
Sudan's Rapid Support Forces declines to join transitional military council - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KHARTOUM, April 12 (Xinhua) -- The commander of Sudan's Rapid Support Forces (RSF), an affiliate of the Sudanese army, announced on Friday his refusal to join the Transitional Military Council, which will rule the country after ousting President Omar al-Bashir.
"I would like to announce to all Sudanese people that, I, as RSF commander, have declined to participate in the military council," Mohamed Hamdan Daqlu, commander of the RSF, said in a statement released by the RSF's official website.
"We will remain part of the Armed Forces and will work for the unity of the country, respect of human rights and protection of the Sudanese people," Daqlu added.
The country is now fragile and needs joint work under the umbrella of the armed forces and other regular forces, he noted.
On Thursday, Sudan's Defense Minister Awad Mohamed Ahmed Ibn Auf announced the ouster of al-Bashir and his government.
Auf assumed the chairmanship of a transitional military council to rule the country for an expected period of two years.
The council was supposed to include representatives from the armed forces, the RSF, the national intelligence and security service and the police forces.
Xi meets with Myanmar's commander-in-chief of defense services
Xinhua photos of the day
In pics: construction site of Peljesac Bridge in S Croatia
Nature reserve in China's Jilin greets peak season for migrant birds to return to north
Zhejiang's Jiande dedicated to developing tea industry
Aerial view of Gandan Temple in China's Tibet
View of Qingyan ancient town in Guiyang, SW China's Guizhou
In pics: blooming tulips in NW China's Gansu

Title: Are There Saudi, Mossad Hands Behind The Removal of Sudan's Bashir? | Al Bawaba
Saudi Arabia, gloating over the fall of Sudan's longtime ruler Omar al-Bashir, has expressed support for measures taken by the Sudanese transitional military council following his ouster.
"The Kingdom declares its support for the steps announced by the Council in preserving the lives and property, and stands by the Sudanese people, and hopes that this will achieve security and stability for brotherly Sudan," the Saudi official news agency SPA said late Saturday.
The agency added that Riyadh had also announced a humanitarian aid package to Sudan, including wheat, petroleum products, and medicine.
The Sudanese military on Thursday deposed Bashir, who had ruled Sudan since 1989, following months of popular protests against his government. The military also established a military council to run the African country for a transitional period of two years.
The United Arab Emirates (UAE) also welcomed on Saturday the new head of Sudan’s transitional military council, Abdel Fattah al-Burhan Abdelrahman, state news agency (WAM) said.
“UAE President Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan has directed to communicate with Sudan’s transitional military council to explore the prospects of accelerating aid for the brotherly people of Sudan,” said WAM.
A report by London-based Middle East Eye last month said the head of Israel's Mossad had met with his Sudanese counterpart in Germany as part of a secret plan by Saudi Arabia, Egypt and the United Arab Emirates to oust Bashir.
In another report in January, Bashir lamented that he had fallen for advice from unknown parties to normalize ties with Israel in order to ensure stability in his country, but had seen the situation spiral out of hand.
Bashir, 75, who ruled over 30 years, took power in a coup in 1989. He had said that he would only move aside for another army officer or at the ballot box.
The protests against Bashir initially erupted on December 19, 2018, in the face of a government decision to triple the price of bread. The demonstrations quickly turned into a mass movement across the country against the president, and finally led to his ouster.
Sudanese media and analysts say Burhan coordinated sending Sudanese troops to Yemen to participate in the Saudi war on the impoverished country.
{"preview_thumbnail":"https://cdn.flowplayer.com/6684a05f-6468-4ecd-87d5-a748773282a3/i/v-i-6…","video_id":"619f23e7-d8ad-4491-9039-f240c64350a0","player_id":"8ca46225-42a2-4245-9c20-7850ae937431","provider":"flowplayer","video":"Venezuela's Maduro Says The Brazilian President is The New Hitler"}
Willow Berridge, author of Civil Uprisings in Modern Sudan and lecturer in history at Newcastle University, says the Yemen portfolio saw Burhan work closely with Sudan's paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
It is with the support of this group that "he now appears to have come to power," said Berridge.
"The role in this latest move of the Rapid Support Forces -- branded by many as a revamped version of the Janjaweed militias who committed mass atrocities in Darfur -- will make many cautious," Berridge added.
On Saturday, protest organizers in Sudan submitted a list of demands to the military during talks held after a transitional military council was sworn in as thousands of people held a sit-in outside the army headquarters in the capital Khartoum.
In a statement, the organizers said they have called for the formation of a fully civilian government. They also pledged to continue their protests until all their demands were met.
Earlier in the day, the new head of the ruling military council, in an address, pledged a civilian government in Sudan.
In a statement aired live on official Sudan TV, Burhan announced the cancellation of the curfew and the release of all people tried by the emergency law. He also declared the dismissal of all states' military governors and the assignments of commanders of the military to areas in the states.
Burhan further vowed to "uproot" Bashir's regime and release protesters, in a bid to placate demonstrators demanding civilian rule.
"I announce the restructuring of state institutions according to the law and pledge to fight corruption and uproot the regime and its symbols," he said.
This article has been adapted from its original source.
ViaSyndiGate.info
Copyright � 2022 Press TV. All rights reserved.
Subscribe to our newsletter for exclusive updates and enhanced content
Subscribe


Title: Are There Saudi, Mossad Hands Behind The Removal of Sudan's Bashir? | Al Bawaba
Saudi Arabia, gloating over the fall of Sudan's longtime ruler Omar al-Bashir, has expressed support for measures taken by the Sudanese transitional military council following his ouster.
"The Kingdom declares its support for the steps announced by the Council in preserving the lives and property, and stands by the Sudanese people, and hopes that this will achieve security and stability for brotherly Sudan," the Saudi official news agency SPA said late Saturday.
The agency added that Riyadh had also announced a humanitarian aid package to Sudan, including wheat, petroleum products, and medicine.
The Sudanese military on Thursday deposed Bashir, who had ruled Sudan since 1989, following months of popular protests against his government. The military also established a military council to run the African country for a transitional period of two years.
The United Arab Emirates (UAE) also welcomed on Saturday the new head of Sudan’s transitional military council, Abdel Fattah al-Burhan Abdelrahman, state news agency (WAM) said.
“UAE President Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan has directed to communicate with Sudan’s transitional military council to explore the prospects of accelerating aid for the brotherly people of Sudan,” said WAM.
A report by London-based Middle East Eye last month said the head of Israel's Mossad had met with his Sudanese counterpart in Germany as part of a secret plan by Saudi Arabia, Egypt and the United Arab Emirates to oust Bashir.
In another report in January, Bashir lamented that he had fallen for advice from unknown parties to normalize ties with Israel in order to ensure stability in his country, but had seen the situation spiral out of hand.
Bashir, 75, who ruled over 30 years, took power in a coup in 1989. He had said that he would only move aside for another army officer or at the ballot box.
The protests against Bashir initially erupted on December 19, 2018, in the face of a government decision to triple the price of bread. The demonstrations quickly turned into a mass movement across the country against the president, and finally led to his ouster.
Sudanese media and analysts say Burhan coordinated sending Sudanese troops to Yemen to participate in the Saudi war on the impoverished country.
{"preview_thumbnail":"https://cdn.flowplayer.com/6684a05f-6468-4ecd-87d5-a748773282a3/i/v-i-6…","video_id":"619f23e7-d8ad-4491-9039-f240c64350a0","player_id":"8ca46225-42a2-4245-9c20-7850ae937431","provider":"flowplayer","video":"Venezuela's Maduro Says The Brazilian President is The New Hitler"}
Willow Berridge, author of Civil Uprisings in Modern Sudan and lecturer in history at Newcastle University, says the Yemen portfolio saw Burhan work closely with Sudan's paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
It is with the support of this group that "he now appears to have come to power," said Berridge.
"The role in this latest move of the Rapid Support Forces -- branded by many as a revamped version of the Janjaweed militias who committed mass atrocities in Darfur -- will make many cautious," Berridge added.
On Saturday, protest organizers in Sudan submitted a list of demands to the military during talks held after a transitional military council was sworn in as thousands of people held a sit-in outside the army headquarters in the capital Khartoum.
In a statement, the organizers said they have called for the formation of a fully civilian government. They also pledged to continue their protests until all their demands were met.
Earlier in the day, the new head of the ruling military council, in an address, pledged a civilian government in Sudan.
In a statement aired live on official Sudan TV, Burhan announced the cancellation of the curfew and the release of all people tried by the emergency law. He also declared the dismissal of all states' military governors and the assignments of commanders of the military to areas in the states.
Burhan further vowed to "uproot" Bashir's regime and release protesters, in a bid to placate demonstrators demanding civilian rule.
"I announce the restructuring of state institutions according to the law and pledge to fight corruption and uproot the regime and its symbols," he said.
This article has been adapted from its original source.
ViaSyndiGate.info
Copyright � 2022 Press TV. All rights reserved.
Subscribe to our newsletter for exclusive updates and enhanced content
Subscribe


Title: Factbox - Leading Sudanese security figures
KHARTOUM (Reuters) - Officers who ousted President Omar al-Bashir from three decades in power have announced that a military council will run Sudan for a transitional period lasting up to two years, followed by elections.
But the man who announced Bashir's ouster stepped down as head of the now-ruling Transitional Military Council (TMC) after only a day in the post.
The new 10-member ruling council, now headed by Lieutenant General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, has said the transition can last much less than two years if chaos is avoided, and it is negotiating with the protesters on a transitional cabinet.
The TMC is staffed by senior military commanders comprising mainly the heads of the various branches of the armed forces as well as the commander of the Rapid Support Forces, a paramilitary force under the military, the chief of police and a representative of the intelligence service.
Several members of the council were promoted to their current positions by Bashir in February as part of a regular reshuffle of the armed forces.
Ibn Auf, who Burhan replaced, was promoted by Bashir to vice president in February as protests intensified. He was known for his Islamist links.
Below are brief penpix of leading figures in Sudan's security establishment:
ABDEL FATTAH AL-BURHAN
General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, the new head of the TMC, was born in 1960 in the state of River Nile. He served as inspector general of the Sudanese armed forces and was its third most senior general, but was virtually unknown in public life.
He was the head of Sudan's ground forces, a role in which he oversaw Sudanese troops serving in a Saudi-led military coalition fighting in Yemen. His role in Yemen has given him ties to senior Gulf military officials, including from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia.
It is not clear if Burhan has Islamist leanings.
MOHAMED HAMDAN DAGALO
General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, commonly known by his nickname Hemedti, is deputy head of the TMC, and the second most powerful man on the council. He was appointed by Burhan and replaced Kamal Abdelmarouf al-Mahi.
Born in 1975, he commands the Rapid Support Forces, a paramilitary group that grew out of the Janjaweed militia, which operated in Sudan's western Darfur region. The government had denied any wrongdoing by the RSF.
Like Burhan, Hemedti had been involved in supervising Sudanese forces fighting in Yemen and thus has strong connections with fellow UAE and Saudi officers.
Hemedti was a prominent figure in Bashir's ruling circle, but it is not known whether he has Islamist leanings.
OMAR ZAIN AL-ABIDEEN
Lieutenant General Omar Zain al-Abideen was deputy head of Sudan's military production. He was introduced as head of the political committee of the TMC headed by Ibn Auf in its first press conference after Bashir's ouster.
He remains the head of the TMC's political committee under Burhan, and is widely seen as the council's main political strategist. He is widely believed to have Islamist leanings.
JALAL AL-DEEN AL-SHEIKH
Lieutenant General Jalal al-Deen al-Sheikh, who was a military officer, was brought out of retirement by Bashir and promoted to the post of deputy director of the country's powerful National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS) in February.
He was deputy to Salah Abdallah Mohamed Saleh, commonly known as Salah Gosh, who tendered his resignation as head of NISS last Friday. Gosh was once seen as the most powerful person in the country after Bashir and protesters held him responsible for the killing of demonstrators demanding an end to military rule.
Sheikh is also widely believed to have Islamist leanings. Sheikh graduated from military college in the same year as Burhan and Abideen, and the three have close relations.
AL-TAYEB BABAKR ALI FADEEL
Born in the village of Shaqlawa, northeast of the capital Khartoum, Lieutenant General Al-Tayeb Babakr Ali Fadeel made his way up the ladder of the country's police force until he was promoted by Bashir to the head of police in February 2018.
(Reporting by Khalid Abdelaziz; Writing by Sami Aboudi; Editing by Yousef Saba and Mark Heinrich)
A "predator" who posed as a teen social media star has been jailed for coercing hundreds of victims into degrading sex acts "in one of the worst sextortion cases in history".  Muhammad Zain Ul Abideen Rasheed pleaded guilty to 119 charges stemming from 550 incidents, in what police said was "one of the most horrific sextortion cases prosecuted in Australia".  Almost two-thirds (180 victims) were children.
Alfred W. Ruf, 71, pleaded guilty on Monday to lacing his wife’s Coca-Cola a dozen times in late 2021
Researcher Vincent Lyne believes the plane was deliberately plunged into a 20,000ft-deep ’hole’ in the Indian Ocean’s Broken Ridge
Demi Moore posed for the cover of Interview magazine wearing a see-through blue bodysuit naked dress that nailed the TikTok very demure, very mindful trend.
A Thai court on Thursday jailed a famous Spanish actor's son for life for the grisly murder of a Colombian plastic surgeon on a tropical holiday island, in a lurid case that has gripped Spain.The case has generated enormous interest in Spain because the defendant's father Rodolfo Sancho is a well-known actor, and scores of Spanish reporters have flown in for the trial.
Wade Wilson appeared motionless in the Florida courtroom
The skirmishes come as Ukraine claimed to be continuing its advance into Russia after shock incursion
Seven given sentences ranging from 11 months to 12 years for scheme aimed at students seeking to bypass foreign currency controls
"I replied, 'Mom, that's my wife.' She left the table."
‘I hope you are able to come out of this OK and just lead a lawful life,’ the judge told Booth in 2015
Liverpool have completed a £10 million deal for Juventus and Italy winger Federico Chiesa.
Ukraine’s unexpected incursion into Russia’s Kursk region — and Moscow's inability to marshal a serious response to it — has shaken public sentiment within Russia.
The post Tian Tian Fa: $5 Large plate of Chai Tow Kway, Char Kway Teow with Lap Cheong & Omelette with lots of Oysters appeared first on SETHLUI.com.
These slammed into my funny bone.
The post Omage Foods: The best dry laksa I’ve had in Singapore & incredibly tasty mee tai mak hidden in Bedok appeared first on SETHLUI.com.
ABBA hits including "The Winner Takes It All", "Money, Money, Money" and "Dancing Queen" were played at a rally held by Trump and his running mate JD Vance on July 27 in Minnesota, accompanied by videos, said Swedish daily Svenska Dagbladet, which had a reporter at the event.  "Together with the members of ABBA, we have discovered that videos have been released where ABBA's music has been used at Trump events, and we have therefore requested that such use be immediately removed and taken down," the band's record label Universal Music said in a statement.
Ben Affleck is back in his natural element after he was pictured smiling with a fast food delivery bag
The two girls, 18 and 15, were from one of India’s most oppressed castes
Jennifer Garner is dating entrepreneur John Miller. Learn more about who he is, including how the two met and their brief split.
Ukraine's increased attacks on Russia have exposed and created gaps in its air-defense coverage, war experts say, reducing Russia's upper hand.

Title: Site is undergoing maintenance
Site will be available soon. Thank you for your patience!

Title: 
Sudan's RSF calls for transitional military council, civilian gov't - Xinhua | English.news.cn

KHARTOUM, April 12 (Xinhua) -- Sudan's Rapid Support Forces (RSF) on Friday called for the formation of a transitional military council and a civilian government with a transitional period of three to six months.
It is necessary to open the door for dialogue with different sectors of society, speed up organizing the dialogue meetings with leaders of political parties, the Sudanese professionals association and leaders of youths and civil society organizations, said the RSF in a statement.
It further called for setting up a clear program for a transitional period of three to six months and revising the constitution through a constitutional committee involving all forces in Sudan.
Xi meets with Myanmar's commander-in-chief of defense services
Premier Li proposes multiple measures for future China-CEEC cooperation
Xinhua photos of the day
Nature reserve in China's Jilin greets peak season for migrant birds to return to north
Zhejiang's Jiande dedicated to developing tea industry
Aerial view of Gandan Temple in China's Tibet
View of Qingyan ancient town in Guiyang, SW China's Guizhou
In pics: blooming tulips in NW China's Gansu

Title: 'Veteran' soldier Burhan becomes Sudan's new ruler | Daily Mail Online
ByAfp
Published:08:12 EDT, 13 April 2019|Updated:08:12 EDT, 13 April 2019


A handout picture released by the Twitter account of the official Sudan News Agency shows General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan speaking with demonstrators outside the army headquarters
General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, the second officer to be sworn in as Sudan's new military ruler in consecutive days, is a "veteran soldier" largely unknown outside the army.
On Friday, Burhan became chief of a military council that deposed Omar al-Bashir, after the president's immediate successor General Awad Ibn Ouf stepped down following little more than 24 hours in power.
Protesters, determined to see a civilian government after the end of Bashir's iron-fisted three decades in power, saw Ibn Ouf as a regime insider and a close aide of the toppled leader.
Ibn Ouf's exit has catapulted Burhan from the shadows to the de facto head of the country.
"Burhan is a high ranking officer within the armed forces, but basically he's a veteran soldier," said an army officer, who did not want to be named.
"He's never been in the limelight like Ibn Ouf or General Kamal Abdelmarouf," the officer said, referring to the army's former chief of staff.
Burhan had a stint as Sudan's defence attache to Beijing.
On Friday, hours before he was named as Sudan's new military ruler, he was seen talking to protesters who have camped outside the army headquarters since April 6.
- 'No political leanings' -
Born in 1960 in the village of Gandatu, north of Khartoum, Burhan studied in a Sudanese army college and later in Egypt and Jordan.
He is married and has three children.
He was commander of ground forces before Bashir made him inspector general of the army in February.
Sudanese media and analysts say Burhan coordinated sending Sudanese troops to Yemen as part of a Saudi-led coalition against the Iran backed Huthi rebels.
Willow Berridge, author of Civil Uprisings in Modern Sudan and lecturer in history at Newcastle University says the Yemen portfolio saw Burhan work closely with Sudan's paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
It is with the support of this group that "he now appears to have come to power," said Berridge.
"The role in this latest move of the Rapid Support Forces -- branded by many as a revamped version of the Janjaweed militias who committed mass atrocities in Darfur -- will make many cautious," Berridge added.
She noted that the various Darfur based rebel groups, which feed into opposition coalitions, would be especially wary.
The conflict in Darfur erupted in 2003 when ethnic black rebels took up arms against Khartoum's Arab dominated government, accusing it of neglecting the region economically and politically.
The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.
Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.
Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.
While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal.
"Burhan doesn't have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.
But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group

Title: ‘Veteran’ soldier Burhan becomes Sudan’s new ruler
KHARTOUM: General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, the second officer to be sworn in as Sudan’s new military ruler in consecutive days, is a "veteran soldier" largely unknown outside the army.On Friday, Burhan became chief of a military council that deposed Omar al-Bashir, after the president’s immediate successor General Awad Ibn Ouf stepped down following little more than 24 hours in power.Protesters, determined to see a civilian government after the end of Bashir’s iron-fisted three decades in power, saw Ibn Ouf as a regime insider and a close aide of the toppled leader.Ibn Ouf’s exit has catapulted Burhan from the shadows to the de facto head of the country."Burhan is a high ranking officer within the armed forces, but basically he’s a veteran soldier," said an army officer, who did not want to be named."He’s never been in the limelight like Ibn Ouf or General Kamal Abdelmarouf," the officer said, referring to the army’s former chief of staff.Burhan had a stint as Sudan’s defence attache to Beijing.On Friday, hours before he was named as Sudan’s new military ruler, he was seen talking to protesters who have camped outside the army headquarters since April 6.Born in 1960 in the village of Gandatu, north of Khartoum, Burhan studied in a Sudanese army college and later in Egypt and Jordan.He is married and has three children.He was commander of ground forces before Bashir made him inspector general of the army in February.Sudanese media and analysts say Burhan coordinated sending Sudanese troops to Yemen as part of a Saudi-led coalition against the Iran backed Huthi rebels.Willow Berridge, author of Civil Uprisings in Modern Sudan and lecturer in history at Newcastle University says the Yemen portfolio saw Burhan work closely with Sudan’s paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).It is with the support of this group that "he now appears to have come to power," said Berridge."The role in this latest move of the Rapid Support Forces -- branded by many as a revamped version of the Janjaweed militias who committed mass atrocities in Darfur -- will make many cautious," Berridge added.She noted that the various Darfur based rebel groups, which feed into opposition coalitions, would be especially wary.The conflict in Darfur erupted in 2003 when ethnic black rebels took up arms against Khartoum’s Arab dominated government, accusing it of neglecting the region economically and politically.The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
On Friday, Burhan became chief of a military council that deposed Omar al-Bashir, after the president’s immediate successor General Awad Ibn Ouf stepped down following little more than 24 hours in power.Protesters, determined to see a civilian government after the end of Bashir’s iron-fisted three decades in power, saw Ibn Ouf as a regime insider and a close aide of the toppled leader.Ibn Ouf’s exit has catapulted Burhan from the shadows to the de facto head of the country."Burhan is a high ranking officer within the armed forces, but basically he’s a veteran soldier," said an army officer, who did not want to be named."He’s never been in the limelight like Ibn Ouf or General Kamal Abdelmarouf," the officer said, referring to the army’s former chief of staff.Burhan had a stint as Sudan’s defence attache to Beijing.On Friday, hours before he was named as Sudan’s new military ruler, he was seen talking to protesters who have camped outside the army headquarters since April 6.Born in 1960 in the village of Gandatu, north of Khartoum, Burhan studied in a Sudanese army college and later in Egypt and Jordan.He is married and has three children.He was commander of ground forces before Bashir made him inspector general of the army in February.Sudanese media and analysts say Burhan coordinated sending Sudanese troops to Yemen as part of a Saudi-led coalition against the Iran backed Huthi rebels.Willow Berridge, author of Civil Uprisings in Modern Sudan and lecturer in history at Newcastle University says the Yemen portfolio saw Burhan work closely with Sudan’s paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).It is with the support of this group that "he now appears to have come to power," said Berridge."The role in this latest move of the Rapid Support Forces -- branded by many as a revamped version of the Janjaweed militias who committed mass atrocities in Darfur -- will make many cautious," Berridge added.She noted that the various Darfur based rebel groups, which feed into opposition coalitions, would be especially wary.The conflict in Darfur erupted in 2003 when ethnic black rebels took up arms against Khartoum’s Arab dominated government, accusing it of neglecting the region economically and politically.The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
Protesters, determined to see a civilian government after the end of Bashir’s iron-fisted three decades in power, saw Ibn Ouf as a regime insider and a close aide of the toppled leader.Ibn Ouf’s exit has catapulted Burhan from the shadows to the de facto head of the country."Burhan is a high ranking officer within the armed forces, but basically he’s a veteran soldier," said an army officer, who did not want to be named."He’s never been in the limelight like Ibn Ouf or General Kamal Abdelmarouf," the officer said, referring to the army’s former chief of staff.Burhan had a stint as Sudan’s defence attache to Beijing.On Friday, hours before he was named as Sudan’s new military ruler, he was seen talking to protesters who have camped outside the army headquarters since April 6.Born in 1960 in the village of Gandatu, north of Khartoum, Burhan studied in a Sudanese army college and later in Egypt and Jordan.He is married and has three children.He was commander of ground forces before Bashir made him inspector general of the army in February.Sudanese media and analysts say Burhan coordinated sending Sudanese troops to Yemen as part of a Saudi-led coalition against the Iran backed Huthi rebels.Willow Berridge, author of Civil Uprisings in Modern Sudan and lecturer in history at Newcastle University says the Yemen portfolio saw Burhan work closely with Sudan’s paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).It is with the support of this group that "he now appears to have come to power," said Berridge."The role in this latest move of the Rapid Support Forces -- branded by many as a revamped version of the Janjaweed militias who committed mass atrocities in Darfur -- will make many cautious," Berridge added.She noted that the various Darfur based rebel groups, which feed into opposition coalitions, would be especially wary.The conflict in Darfur erupted in 2003 when ethnic black rebels took up arms against Khartoum’s Arab dominated government, accusing it of neglecting the region economically and politically.The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
Ibn Ouf’s exit has catapulted Burhan from the shadows to the de facto head of the country."Burhan is a high ranking officer within the armed forces, but basically he’s a veteran soldier," said an army officer, who did not want to be named."He’s never been in the limelight like Ibn Ouf or General Kamal Abdelmarouf," the officer said, referring to the army’s former chief of staff.Burhan had a stint as Sudan’s defence attache to Beijing.On Friday, hours before he was named as Sudan’s new military ruler, he was seen talking to protesters who have camped outside the army headquarters since April 6.Born in 1960 in the village of Gandatu, north of Khartoum, Burhan studied in a Sudanese army college and later in Egypt and Jordan.He is married and has three children.He was commander of ground forces before Bashir made him inspector general of the army in February.Sudanese media and analysts say Burhan coordinated sending Sudanese troops to Yemen as part of a Saudi-led coalition against the Iran backed Huthi rebels.Willow Berridge, author of Civil Uprisings in Modern Sudan and lecturer in history at Newcastle University says the Yemen portfolio saw Burhan work closely with Sudan’s paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).It is with the support of this group that "he now appears to have come to power," said Berridge."The role in this latest move of the Rapid Support Forces -- branded by many as a revamped version of the Janjaweed militias who committed mass atrocities in Darfur -- will make many cautious," Berridge added.She noted that the various Darfur based rebel groups, which feed into opposition coalitions, would be especially wary.The conflict in Darfur erupted in 2003 when ethnic black rebels took up arms against Khartoum’s Arab dominated government, accusing it of neglecting the region economically and politically.The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
"Burhan is a high ranking officer within the armed forces, but basically he’s a veteran soldier," said an army officer, who did not want to be named."He’s never been in the limelight like Ibn Ouf or General Kamal Abdelmarouf," the officer said, referring to the army’s former chief of staff.Burhan had a stint as Sudan’s defence attache to Beijing.On Friday, hours before he was named as Sudan’s new military ruler, he was seen talking to protesters who have camped outside the army headquarters since April 6.Born in 1960 in the village of Gandatu, north of Khartoum, Burhan studied in a Sudanese army college and later in Egypt and Jordan.He is married and has three children.He was commander of ground forces before Bashir made him inspector general of the army in February.Sudanese media and analysts say Burhan coordinated sending Sudanese troops to Yemen as part of a Saudi-led coalition against the Iran backed Huthi rebels.Willow Berridge, author of Civil Uprisings in Modern Sudan and lecturer in history at Newcastle University says the Yemen portfolio saw Burhan work closely with Sudan’s paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).It is with the support of this group that "he now appears to have come to power," said Berridge."The role in this latest move of the Rapid Support Forces -- branded by many as a revamped version of the Janjaweed militias who committed mass atrocities in Darfur -- will make many cautious," Berridge added.She noted that the various Darfur based rebel groups, which feed into opposition coalitions, would be especially wary.The conflict in Darfur erupted in 2003 when ethnic black rebels took up arms against Khartoum’s Arab dominated government, accusing it of neglecting the region economically and politically.The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
"He’s never been in the limelight like Ibn Ouf or General Kamal Abdelmarouf," the officer said, referring to the army’s former chief of staff.Burhan had a stint as Sudan’s defence attache to Beijing.On Friday, hours before he was named as Sudan’s new military ruler, he was seen talking to protesters who have camped outside the army headquarters since April 6.Born in 1960 in the village of Gandatu, north of Khartoum, Burhan studied in a Sudanese army college and later in Egypt and Jordan.He is married and has three children.He was commander of ground forces before Bashir made him inspector general of the army in February.Sudanese media and analysts say Burhan coordinated sending Sudanese troops to Yemen as part of a Saudi-led coalition against the Iran backed Huthi rebels.Willow Berridge, author of Civil Uprisings in Modern Sudan and lecturer in history at Newcastle University says the Yemen portfolio saw Burhan work closely with Sudan’s paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).It is with the support of this group that "he now appears to have come to power," said Berridge."The role in this latest move of the Rapid Support Forces -- branded by many as a revamped version of the Janjaweed militias who committed mass atrocities in Darfur -- will make many cautious," Berridge added.She noted that the various Darfur based rebel groups, which feed into opposition coalitions, would be especially wary.The conflict in Darfur erupted in 2003 when ethnic black rebels took up arms against Khartoum’s Arab dominated government, accusing it of neglecting the region economically and politically.The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
Burhan had a stint as Sudan’s defence attache to Beijing.On Friday, hours before he was named as Sudan’s new military ruler, he was seen talking to protesters who have camped outside the army headquarters since April 6.Born in 1960 in the village of Gandatu, north of Khartoum, Burhan studied in a Sudanese army college and later in Egypt and Jordan.He is married and has three children.He was commander of ground forces before Bashir made him inspector general of the army in February.Sudanese media and analysts say Burhan coordinated sending Sudanese troops to Yemen as part of a Saudi-led coalition against the Iran backed Huthi rebels.Willow Berridge, author of Civil Uprisings in Modern Sudan and lecturer in history at Newcastle University says the Yemen portfolio saw Burhan work closely with Sudan’s paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).It is with the support of this group that "he now appears to have come to power," said Berridge."The role in this latest move of the Rapid Support Forces -- branded by many as a revamped version of the Janjaweed militias who committed mass atrocities in Darfur -- will make many cautious," Berridge added.She noted that the various Darfur based rebel groups, which feed into opposition coalitions, would be especially wary.The conflict in Darfur erupted in 2003 when ethnic black rebels took up arms against Khartoum’s Arab dominated government, accusing it of neglecting the region economically and politically.The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
On Friday, hours before he was named as Sudan’s new military ruler, he was seen talking to protesters who have camped outside the army headquarters since April 6.Born in 1960 in the village of Gandatu, north of Khartoum, Burhan studied in a Sudanese army college and later in Egypt and Jordan.He is married and has three children.He was commander of ground forces before Bashir made him inspector general of the army in February.Sudanese media and analysts say Burhan coordinated sending Sudanese troops to Yemen as part of a Saudi-led coalition against the Iran backed Huthi rebels.Willow Berridge, author of Civil Uprisings in Modern Sudan and lecturer in history at Newcastle University says the Yemen portfolio saw Burhan work closely with Sudan’s paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).It is with the support of this group that "he now appears to have come to power," said Berridge."The role in this latest move of the Rapid Support Forces -- branded by many as a revamped version of the Janjaweed militias who committed mass atrocities in Darfur -- will make many cautious," Berridge added.She noted that the various Darfur based rebel groups, which feed into opposition coalitions, would be especially wary.The conflict in Darfur erupted in 2003 when ethnic black rebels took up arms against Khartoum’s Arab dominated government, accusing it of neglecting the region economically and politically.The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
Born in 1960 in the village of Gandatu, north of Khartoum, Burhan studied in a Sudanese army college and later in Egypt and Jordan.He is married and has three children.He was commander of ground forces before Bashir made him inspector general of the army in February.Sudanese media and analysts say Burhan coordinated sending Sudanese troops to Yemen as part of a Saudi-led coalition against the Iran backed Huthi rebels.Willow Berridge, author of Civil Uprisings in Modern Sudan and lecturer in history at Newcastle University says the Yemen portfolio saw Burhan work closely with Sudan’s paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).It is with the support of this group that "he now appears to have come to power," said Berridge."The role in this latest move of the Rapid Support Forces -- branded by many as a revamped version of the Janjaweed militias who committed mass atrocities in Darfur -- will make many cautious," Berridge added.She noted that the various Darfur based rebel groups, which feed into opposition coalitions, would be especially wary.The conflict in Darfur erupted in 2003 when ethnic black rebels took up arms against Khartoum’s Arab dominated government, accusing it of neglecting the region economically and politically.The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
He is married and has three children.He was commander of ground forces before Bashir made him inspector general of the army in February.Sudanese media and analysts say Burhan coordinated sending Sudanese troops to Yemen as part of a Saudi-led coalition against the Iran backed Huthi rebels.Willow Berridge, author of Civil Uprisings in Modern Sudan and lecturer in history at Newcastle University says the Yemen portfolio saw Burhan work closely with Sudan’s paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).It is with the support of this group that "he now appears to have come to power," said Berridge."The role in this latest move of the Rapid Support Forces -- branded by many as a revamped version of the Janjaweed militias who committed mass atrocities in Darfur -- will make many cautious," Berridge added.She noted that the various Darfur based rebel groups, which feed into opposition coalitions, would be especially wary.The conflict in Darfur erupted in 2003 when ethnic black rebels took up arms against Khartoum’s Arab dominated government, accusing it of neglecting the region economically and politically.The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
He was commander of ground forces before Bashir made him inspector general of the army in February.Sudanese media and analysts say Burhan coordinated sending Sudanese troops to Yemen as part of a Saudi-led coalition against the Iran backed Huthi rebels.Willow Berridge, author of Civil Uprisings in Modern Sudan and lecturer in history at Newcastle University says the Yemen portfolio saw Burhan work closely with Sudan’s paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).It is with the support of this group that "he now appears to have come to power," said Berridge."The role in this latest move of the Rapid Support Forces -- branded by many as a revamped version of the Janjaweed militias who committed mass atrocities in Darfur -- will make many cautious," Berridge added.She noted that the various Darfur based rebel groups, which feed into opposition coalitions, would be especially wary.The conflict in Darfur erupted in 2003 when ethnic black rebels took up arms against Khartoum’s Arab dominated government, accusing it of neglecting the region economically and politically.The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
Sudanese media and analysts say Burhan coordinated sending Sudanese troops to Yemen as part of a Saudi-led coalition against the Iran backed Huthi rebels.Willow Berridge, author of Civil Uprisings in Modern Sudan and lecturer in history at Newcastle University says the Yemen portfolio saw Burhan work closely with Sudan’s paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).It is with the support of this group that "he now appears to have come to power," said Berridge."The role in this latest move of the Rapid Support Forces -- branded by many as a revamped version of the Janjaweed militias who committed mass atrocities in Darfur -- will make many cautious," Berridge added.She noted that the various Darfur based rebel groups, which feed into opposition coalitions, would be especially wary.The conflict in Darfur erupted in 2003 when ethnic black rebels took up arms against Khartoum’s Arab dominated government, accusing it of neglecting the region economically and politically.The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
Willow Berridge, author of Civil Uprisings in Modern Sudan and lecturer in history at Newcastle University says the Yemen portfolio saw Burhan work closely with Sudan’s paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).It is with the support of this group that "he now appears to have come to power," said Berridge."The role in this latest move of the Rapid Support Forces -- branded by many as a revamped version of the Janjaweed militias who committed mass atrocities in Darfur -- will make many cautious," Berridge added.She noted that the various Darfur based rebel groups, which feed into opposition coalitions, would be especially wary.The conflict in Darfur erupted in 2003 when ethnic black rebels took up arms against Khartoum’s Arab dominated government, accusing it of neglecting the region economically and politically.The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
It is with the support of this group that "he now appears to have come to power," said Berridge."The role in this latest move of the Rapid Support Forces -- branded by many as a revamped version of the Janjaweed militias who committed mass atrocities in Darfur -- will make many cautious," Berridge added.She noted that the various Darfur based rebel groups, which feed into opposition coalitions, would be especially wary.The conflict in Darfur erupted in 2003 when ethnic black rebels took up arms against Khartoum’s Arab dominated government, accusing it of neglecting the region economically and politically.The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
"The role in this latest move of the Rapid Support Forces -- branded by many as a revamped version of the Janjaweed militias who committed mass atrocities in Darfur -- will make many cautious," Berridge added.She noted that the various Darfur based rebel groups, which feed into opposition coalitions, would be especially wary.The conflict in Darfur erupted in 2003 when ethnic black rebels took up arms against Khartoum’s Arab dominated government, accusing it of neglecting the region economically and politically.The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
She noted that the various Darfur based rebel groups, which feed into opposition coalitions, would be especially wary.The conflict in Darfur erupted in 2003 when ethnic black rebels took up arms against Khartoum’s Arab dominated government, accusing it of neglecting the region economically and politically.The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
The conflict in Darfur erupted in 2003 when ethnic black rebels took up arms against Khartoum’s Arab dominated government, accusing it of neglecting the region economically and politically.The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal."Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
"Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
People cool off at a reflecting pool at the World War II Memorial on the National Mall in Washington, DC on August 28,...
Medics paint slogans inside Kolkata Medical College and Hospital campus condemning the rape and murder of a female...
Policemen stand next to demonstrators at Mynttorget Square in Stockholm, Sweden, July 31, 2023. — AFPSTOCKHOLM:...
Afghan women's rights defenders and civil activists protest in in Kabul, Afghanistan. — Reuters/File KABUL: An...
Police detains a man from the University of Dhaka premises, a day after the clash between Bangladesh Chhatra League,...
Disney and Reliance logos are seen in this illustration taken on August 13, 2024. — Reuters NEW DELHI: The...
Copyright © 2024. The News International, All Rights Reserved |Contact Us|Authors

Title: 'Veteran' soldier Burhan becomes Sudan's new ruler - Digital Journal
Hi, what are you looking for?
By
Published
General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, the second officer to be sworn in as Sudan's new military ruler in consecutive days, is a "veteran soldier" largely unknown outside the army.
On Friday, Burhan became chief of a military council that deposed Omar al-Bashir, after the president's immediate successor General Awad Ibn Ouf stepped down following little more than 24 hours in power.
Protesters, determined to see a civilian government after the end of Bashir's iron-fisted three decades in power, saw Ibn Ouf as a regime insider and a close aide of the toppled leader.
Ibn Ouf's exit has catapulted Burhan from the shadows to the de facto head of the country.
"Burhan is a high ranking officer within the armed forces, but basically he's a veteran soldier," said an army officer, who did not want to be named.
"He's never been in the limelight like Ibn Ouf or General Kamal Abdelmarouf," the officer said, referring to the army's former chief of staff.
Burhan had a stint as Sudan's defence attache to Beijing.
On Friday, hours before he was named as Sudan's new military ruler, he was seen talking to protesters who have camped outside the army headquarters since April 6.
- 'No political leanings' -
Born in 1960 in the village of Gandatu, north of Khartoum, Burhan studied in a Sudanese army college and later in Egypt and Jordan.
He is married and has three children.
He was commander of ground forces before Bashir made him inspector general of the army in February.
Sudanese media and analysts say Burhan coordinated sending Sudanese troops to Yemen as part of a Saudi-led coalition against the Iran backed Huthi rebels.
Willow Berridge, author of Civil Uprisings in Modern Sudan and lecturer in history at Newcastle University says the Yemen portfolio saw Burhan work closely with Sudan's paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
It is with the support of this group that "he now appears to have come to power," said Berridge.
"The role in this latest move of the Rapid Support Forces -- branded by many as a revamped version of the Janjaweed militias who committed mass atrocities in Darfur -- will make many cautious," Berridge added.
She noted that the various Darfur based rebel groups, which feed into opposition coalitions, would be especially wary.
The conflict in Darfur erupted in 2003 when ethnic black rebels took up arms against Khartoum's Arab dominated government, accusing it of neglecting the region economically and politically.
The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.
Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.
Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.
While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal.
"Burhan doesn't have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier," the anonymous officer said.
But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, the second officer to be sworn in as Sudan’s new military ruler in consecutive days, is a “veteran soldier” largely unknown outside the army.
On Friday, Burhan became chief of a military council that deposed Omar al-Bashir, after the president’s immediate successor General Awad Ibn Ouf stepped down following little more than 24 hours in power.
Protesters, determined to see a civilian government after the end of Bashir’s iron-fisted three decades in power, saw Ibn Ouf as a regime insider and a close aide of the toppled leader.
Ibn Ouf’s exit has catapulted Burhan from the shadows to the de facto head of the country.
“Burhan is a high ranking officer within the armed forces, but basically he’s a veteran soldier,” said an army officer, who did not want to be named.
“He’s never been in the limelight like Ibn Ouf or General Kamal Abdelmarouf,” the officer said, referring to the army’s former chief of staff.
Burhan had a stint as Sudan’s defence attache to Beijing.
On Friday, hours before he was named as Sudan’s new military ruler, he was seen talking to protesters who have camped outside the army headquarters since April 6.
– ‘No political leanings’ –
Born in 1960 in the village of Gandatu, north of Khartoum, Burhan studied in a Sudanese army college and later in Egypt and Jordan.
He is married and has three children.
He was commander of ground forces before Bashir made him inspector general of the army in February.
Sudanese media and analysts say Burhan coordinated sending Sudanese troops to Yemen as part of a Saudi-led coalition against the Iran backed Huthi rebels.
Willow Berridge, author of Civil Uprisings in Modern Sudan and lecturer in history at Newcastle University says the Yemen portfolio saw Burhan work closely with Sudan’s paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
It is with the support of this group that “he now appears to have come to power,” said Berridge.
“The role in this latest move of the Rapid Support Forces — branded by many as a revamped version of the Janjaweed militias who committed mass atrocities in Darfur — will make many cautious,” Berridge added.
She noted that the various Darfur based rebel groups, which feed into opposition coalitions, would be especially wary.
The conflict in Darfur erupted in 2003 when ethnic black rebels took up arms against Khartoum’s Arab dominated government, accusing it of neglecting the region economically and politically.
The United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed in the conflict, while millions have been displaced.
Bashir deployed Sudanese troops to Yemen in 2015 as part of a major foreign policy shift that saw Khartoum break its decades-old ties with Shiite Iran and join the Saudi-led coalition.
Sudanese soldiers and officers are fighting in Yemen, and have suffered significant casualties.
While it is unclear how many Sudanese troops have been deployed in Yemen, photographs of killed or wounded soldiers on social media have regularly sparked calls for withdrawal.
“Burhan doesn’t have any political leanings, he is a professional soldier,” the anonymous officer said.
But as de facto head of the country, he will not be able to escape making difficult political decisions.
With 2,400 staff representing 100 different nationalities, AFP covers the world as a leading global news agency. AFP provides fast, comprehensive and verified coverage of the issues affecting our daily lives.
Dennis Quaid and Penelope Ann Miller star as Ronald and Nancy Reagan in the new film "Reagan."
Pavel Durov comes from Saint Petersburg. — © AFPThibault Marchand and Stuart WilliamsRussian-born tech entrepreneur Pavel Durov has founded wildly popular social networks, cryptocurrencies,...
The Telegram case can redefine social media with a sledgehammer.  About time.
A Brazilian Supreme Court judge threatened to suspend X, formerly Twitter, if CEO Elon Musk doesn't name a new legal representative.
COPYRIGHT © 1998 - 2024 DIGITAL JOURNAL INC. Sitemaps:XML/News.
Digital Journal is not responsible for the content of external sites.Read more about our external linking.

Title: Factbox - Leading Sudanese security figures | The Star
Friday, 12 Apr 2019
FILE PHOTO: Sudan's President Omar al-Bashir addresses supporters during his visit to the war-torn Darfur region, in Bilal, Darfur, Sudan September 22, 2017. REUTERS/Mohamed Nureldin Abdallah/File Photo
KHARTOUM (Reuters) - Officers who ousted President Omar al-Bashir from three decades in power have announced that a military council will run Sudan for a transitional period lasting up to two years, followed by elections.
But one day after Bashir's overthrow, few details have emerged about how many members will be on the council or its make-up. Only the council's head, Defence Minister General Awad Ibn Auf, and its deputy head, General Kamal Abdelmarouf al-Mahi, the military chief of staff, have been named.
RM13.90/monthRM6.95 only
Billed as RM6.95 for the 1st month then RM13.90 thereafters.
RM12.33/monthRM6.17/month
Billed as RM78 for the 1st year then RM148 thereafters.
Free Trial
For new subscribers only

Report it to us.
Thank you for your report!

Copyright © 1995-Star Media Group Berhad [197101000523 (10894-D)]
Best viewed on Chrome browsers.

We would love to keep you posted on the latest promotion. Kindly fill the form below
We hope you enjoy this feature!