Title: New report targets EU funding in Sudan – DW – 04/06/2017
According to a new report published by the US-based Enough Project, Sudan’s infamous Janjaweed militia force is now being used to control Sudan's borders, with financial support from an EU migration management program.
Under a partnership program, the European Union disburses millions of euros to the Khartoum government for technical equipment and training efforts geared towards stopping the flow to Europe of migrants from Sudan as well as from Eritrea, Ethiopia, Somalia and other countries in sub-Saharan Africa who come through Sudan. DW spoke to the author of a new report  entitled "Border Control from Hell," Dr. Suliman Baldo, Senior Advisor to the Enough Project, based in Washington D.C.
DW:  Dr. Baldo, please tell us about the contents of your report and your findings.
Dr. Suliman Baldo: The report focuses on a partnership that the European Union established with the government of Sudan in the course of 2014 to date with regard to the prevention or containment of migration from Sudan and from neighboring countries in the Horn of Africa towards Europe.  Sudan is a country of origin for many of these migrants but it is also a country of transit for migrants coming from Eritrea in particular, Ethiopia, Somalia and beyond in sub-Saharan Africa.
With reference to that program,  I am questioning the fact that the European Union is legitimizing an abusive government which is on record for attacking its own populations in conflict areas and is relying on abusive militias, paramilitary forces, that are under the command of its security forces and the national army to enforce the border controls under the European Union partnership. In particular we are concerned about the designation by Sudan of Rapid Support Forces, which is a particularly vicious militia, for the control of its borders under this program.
Have you been able to raise your concerns to the EU to make it aware that Sudanese authorities are using its funds to finance the Janjaweed's militia actions along Sudan's porous borders?
The EU is on notice because the moment this program became known, the media, other advocacy groups and local populations brought this to the attention of the EU and the EU parliament, and therefore the EU has been really reminded that it needs to exercise great diligence in dealing with the government of Sudan because of its history of massive human rights violations and because of its reliance on these militias to enforce the partnership of the EU.
But the government of Sudan itself has brought this to the attention of the EU by using these militias in really harsh crackdowns on migrants. We have seen them beating migrants in Khartoum in incidents that are detailed in the report and evicting them back to their countries without proper guarantees for their rights or protection once they have returned, which is contrary to human rights practice for the rights of refugees, migrants and displaced persons.
What are your recommendations and are you optimistic that the EU will do something about this situation?
Our recommendation is to call on the EU to exercise utmost  diligence in dealing with the government of Sudan, and therefore not to allow any of their funds earmarked for this program to directly or indirectly benefit the Rapid Support Forces with this Janjaweed militia which is now enforcing the border controls. We are also calling on the EU to define very a high human rights benchmark for the government of Sudan because before it could benefit from normalization and partnerships like the ones that are now underway between Sudan and either the EU as an entity or with leading member states such as Italy and Germany. The United Kingdom, of course, has exited the EU but has very much invested into this program and is developing its own bilateral normalization tag with the government of Sudan.
Dr. Suliman Baldo is Senior Advisor to the Enough Project and author of the report "Border Control from Hell.”
Interview: Isaac Mugabi

Title: Dozens detained in West Kordofan militia raids - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
On Wednesday, members of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF), Sudan’s main government militia, reportedly held about 23 people at the Um Kireidem market in Sunut in West Kordofan and took them to the prison of Abu Zabad as part of a campaign ‘to collect weapons and arrest suspects wanted for criminal offences’.
On Wednesday, members of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF), Sudan’s main government militia, reportedly held about 23 people at the Um Kireidem market in Sunut in West Kordofan and took them to the prison of Abu Zabad as part of a campaign ‘to collect weapons and arrest suspects wanted for criminal offences’.
Witnesses told Radio Dabanga that a RSF force in “dozens of vehicles” raided the weekly Um Kireidem market, “held the people in one of the squares of the market in a humiliating manner before the arrest of 23 people.”
Those arrested are accused of using violence in a recent dispute between the Misseriya and Hamar tribes, and of possession of weapons.
Witnesses reported that detainees from Bambon, Galeisa, Barbash, and En Nahud were also moved to Abu Zabad prison.
They pointed out that the raids shocked the people in the area and found condemnation from large sectors.
Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: Britain’s flawed dialogue with Sudan regime | Letters | The Guardian
We wholeheartedly agree withyour editorial(7 March) stating that the demonstrators in Sudan calling daily for freedom and the rule of law “do not want a different version of this regime, or more conflict”. The problem is indeed the regime, not just a president indicted for genocide by the international criminal court and for whom, despite their public claims to support the ICC, many external actors seek a “soft landing” in the name of stability. Sudan is not stable for the Sudanese people.
Nevertheless, Britain has engaged in a flawed strategic dialogue with the regime. It has spearheaded the Khartoum process, a supposed partnership with the brutal and corrupt Sudanese regime to “manage” (in other words, to stem) migration to Europe. That process relies on the notorious rapid support forces, mainly former Janjaweed, which the ICC has implicated in war crimes in Darfur. Most Sudanese migrants are in any case refugees fleeing their repressive regime, including the very forces now tasked with capturing them.
As unarmed protesters across the land are shot with live ammunition, tortured in detention or savagely beaten in full public view, it is high time for the UK government to call unequivocally for full respect for fundamental rights and an immediate political transition that brings to an end nearly 30 years of repressive rule and provides the Sudanese people with a genuine democratic choice for their future government.Lutz OetteCentre for Human Rights Law,SoasUniversity of London,David AltonHouse of Lords,Dr Amgad Fareid EltayebSudanesedoctor,Willow BerridgeHistory lecturer,Gill LuskSudan journalist,Azim El-HassanSudanesejournalist;Najlaa AhmedInterimexecutivedirector, Sudanese Rights Group (Huqooq),Maddy CrowtherCo-executivedirector, Waging Peace
Join the debate – emailguardian.letters@theguardian.com
Read more Guardian letters – click here to visitgu.com/letters
Do you have a photo you’d like to share with Guardian readers?Click hereto upload it and we’ll publish the best submissions in the letters spread of our print edition

Title: MSN


Title: Sudan’s President Al Bashir steps down as ruling NCP leader - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Sudan’s President Omar Al Bashir, beleaguered by three months of ongoing popular uprising against this 30-year rule, has delegated his powers as the head of the ruling National Congress Party (NCP) to its recently appointed deputy head, Ahmed Haroun, the former Wali (governor) of North Kordofan.
Sudan’s President Omar Al Bashir, beleaguered bythree months of ongoing popular uprisingagainst this 30-year rule, has delegated his powers as the head of the ruling National Congress Party (NCP) to its recently appointed deputy head, Ahmed Haroun, the former Wali (governor) of North Kordofan.
According to the official Sudan News Agency (SUNA), the decision was taken at a meeting held Thursday evening at the NCP Leadership Bureau, which “reviewed the current political situation in the country”.
Haroun, who is the NCP’s Deputy Chairman for Political and Organisational Affairs, will carry out the tasks of acting chairman until convocation of a general conference of the NCP.
Like Al Bashir, Haroun has beenindicted by the International Criminal Courtfor alleged war crimes committed in Darfur. He wasappointed as the NCP’s deputy head earlier this week, having previously served as the governor of North Kordofan.
Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Haroun said he had taken-on the role of NCP head “so that the president can devote himself to the national tasks”.
Third term
The head of the National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS), Salah Abdallah (Gosh), confirmed that Al Bashir would “abandon the chairmanship of the ruling party and continue as President of the Republic so that the party can nominate another candidate for the 2020 elections”.
In August 2018,Al Bashir accepted nomination for a third term, and indicated that he would run as NCP candidate in the 2020 elections – a move that would require amendments to the Sudanese constitution.
RSF friction
In October 2018, the commander of Sudan’s main paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) militia, Lt Gen Mohamed Hamdan (aka Hemeti), said in aTV interviewthat Haroun, then the Wali of North Kordofan, should be in jail for “bringing us into disrepute”. The interview was quickly banned and the programme suspended by the security apparatus.
In the interview withSudanese television Channel 24militia commander Hemeti said: “Haroun’s place is in jail rather than the state government”.
He accused the opposition dignitaries and a group within the government of ‘conspiring to seek to discredit his forces’.
The RSF is considered a major contingent of the government forces arsenal to combat the armed movements in Darfur and Kordofan. It’s members stand accused of multiple atrocities, crimes, and human rights abuses.
#SudanUprising
Since mid-December last year, Sudan has experienced ongoing popular protests that have spread to towns and cities across the country.
Dozens ofcivilians have been killed, hundreds injured, and unknown thousands detained as the Sudanese security forces routinely respond to peaceful protests with tear gas, batons, and live ammunition.
TheSudanese Professionals Association– major movers behind the popular uprising and protests – and other forces signatory to theDeclaration of Freedom and Changeconfirmed their unwavering commitment to the unconditional step-down of Al Bashir and his regime, the dismantling of repressive institutions, and the handover of power to a transitional civilian national government.
State of Emergency
Last week, Al Bashir declared a year-longState of Emergency in Sudan, and dissolved the federal government and state governments. In six Republican Decrees, Al Bashir dissolved the national Council of Ministers, assigned the Secretaries General and Undersecretaries of Ministries to run the work of their ministries, assigned a new ‘government of competencies’, relieved the Walis (governors) of the states, dissolved the governments of the states, and appointed high-ranking police, security, and military officers as the new Walis of the states.
The declaration, as well as the consequent restrictiveEmergency Orders, have been met with widespreadnationalandinternationalconcern and condemnation.
Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: North Darfur: Gang caught smuggling Sudanese migrants to Libya - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
​A gang of five men has been caught attempting to smuggle 39 Sudanese migrants, heading for the border of Libya through North Darfur.
A gang of five men has been caught attempting to smuggle 39 Sudanese migrants, heading for the border of Libya through North Darfur.
The governor of North Darfur, Lt Col El Naeem Khidir, said on Saturday evening the commandment of the Sixth Infantry’s intelligence division managed to foil an attempt to smuggle 39 Sudanese migrants illegally to Libya.
He announced that the arrest of the gang consisting of five members took place in the area of Jebel Eisa near El Malha with thirty-nine youths on board a Mercedes and a Land Rover on their way to Libya.
Details of how the Infantry forces found the smugglers and migrants are not clear. It is also not clear from the statement what has happened to those caught.
Following the announcement, the governor said that the security plan for the next phase includes continuing the process of collecting weapons and carrying out the emergency orders earlier declared by the Sudanese President, Omar Al Bashir.
Last year in July, the Sudanese government announced alarge disarmament campaignin the country, to begin with in Darfur and Kordofan.
Members of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF), Sudan’s main government militia, and the army were tasked to collect illegal arms and unlicensed vehicles from civilians. In North Darfur alone, more than12,500 RSF troopswere deployed for this purpose.
Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: Man dies in South Darfur militia attack - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
​One person was killed and two others injured in an attack in Nyala, capital of South Darfur; two policemen were abducted after militiamen attacked a market in North Darfur.
One person was killed and two others injured in an attack in Nyala, capital of South Darfur; two policemen were abducted after militiamen attacked a market in North Darfur.
On Friday, a group of militia attacked three people in the area of Hijeir Tongo near Nyala, capital of South Darfur. One man was shot dead and two others were wounded. A camp sheikh told Radio Dabanga that one of the wounded, from Kalma camp, was transferred to Nyala Teaching Hospital in serious condition, while the other is undergoing treatment inside Kalma camp.
The sheikh said the attack took place due to tensions between militia in the area and displaced people who return to their original land for farming purposes. Residents called on the United Nations and human rights and humanitarian organisations to pressure the Sudanese government to stop its militias from attacking unarmed civilians.
Market attack
On Friday, members of theRapid Support Forces (RSF), Sudan’s main government militiaattacked the market of Tabit in Tawila locality in North Darfur, robbed property, and detained two policemen.
Witnesses from Tabit reported to Radio Dabanga that members of the RSF drove up in six Land Cruisers and raided the market of Tabit on Friday, beat people with whips, and then looted cigarette and telephone shops.
According to witnesses, those affected by the incident went to the police station to report the incident.
The militiamen followed them there, attacked police sergeant Hakim Kashok and Corporal Taha Abdelkarim. and then took the two policemen to an unknown destination.
Ongoing violence
Since end January, anumber of attacks have taken placein the Jebel Marra area of Darfur. In addition, UNOCHA reported today that conflict in the Jebel Moon locality of West Darfur State affected an estimated 3,500 people on January 17, when some of the villages’ homes and recent harvests were burned and livestock was looted. Radio Dabanga reported at the time thattwo people were killed.
Security Council resolution 2429(2018) has obliged Unamid to exit and move to its new headquarters in Zalingei, Central Darfur, and to distribute some assets to institutions.Unamid is set to leave all areas of Darfur by June 2020.
September 2018, following a four-day visit to Sudan, a delegation of UK parliamentarians warned that “the rapid withdrawal of Unamid, without a clear plan, puts stability and security in Darfur at risk”.
Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: Omar al-Bashir Fast Facts | CNN
Here’s a look at the life of Sudan’s former leader, Omar al-Bashir.
Birth date:January 1, 1944
Birth place:Hosh Bannaga, Sudan
Birth name:Omar Hassan Ahmed al-Bashir
Father:Name unavailable publicly
Mother:Name unavailable publicly
Marriages:Fatima Khalid; Widad Babiker Omer
Education: Sudan Military Academy, 1966
Military service: Sudanese Armed Forces
Religion: Islam
1960 -Joins the Sudanese Armed Forces.
1966-Graduates from the Sudan Military Academy.
1973 -Serves with Egyptian forces during the October 1973 Arab-Israeli war.
1973-1987-Holds various military posts.
1989-1993 -Serves as Sudan’s defense minister.
June 30, 1989-Leads a coup against Sudan’s Prime Minister Sadiq al-Mahdi. Establishes and proclaims himself chairman of the Revolutionary Command Council. Dissolves the government, political parties and trade unions.
April 1990-Survives a coup attempt. Orders the execution of over 30 army and police officers implicated in the coup attempt.
October 16, 1993-Becomes president of Sudan when the Revolutionary Command Council is dissolved and Sudan is restored to civilian rule.
March 1996 -Is reelected president with more than 75% of the vote.
December 1999-Dissolves the Parliament after National Congress Party chairman Hassan al-Turabi proposes laws limiting the president’s powers.
December 2000 -Is reelected president with over 85% of the vote.
February 2003-Rebels in the Darfur region of Sudan rise up against the Sudanese government.
2004-Is criticized for not cracking down on the Janjaweed militia, a pro-government militia accused of murdering and raping people in Darfur.
September 2007 -After meeting withUN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, Bashir agrees to peace talks with rebels. Peace talks begin in October, but are postponed indefinitely after most of the major players fail to attend.
July 14, 2008 -The chief prosecutor of theInternational Criminal Court (ICC)files charges against Bashir forgenocideand war crimes in Darfur.
March 4, 2009 -The ICC  issues an arrest warrant for Bashir.
April 26, 2010 -Sudan’s National Election Commission certifies Bashir as the winner of recentpresidential electionswith 68% of the vote.
July 12, 2010 -The ICC issues a secondarrest warrantfor Bashir. Combined, the warrant lists 10 counts against Bashir.
December 12, 2014 -The ICC suspends its case against Bashir due to lack of support from theUN Security Council.
March 9, 2015 -The ICC asks the UN Security Council to take steps to force Sudan to extradite Bashir.
April 27, 2015 -Sudan’s Election Commission announces Bashir has been reelected president with more than 94% of the vote. Many major opposition groups boycott the election.
June 15, 2015 -Bashir leaves South Africa just as a South African High Court decides to order his arrest.The human rights group that had petitioned the court to order Bashir’s arrest, the Southern Africa Litigation Centre, says in a statement it is disappointed that the government allowed the Sudanese president to leave before the ruling.
November 23, 2017 -Agence France Presse and other media outlets report that during a trip to Russia, Bashir asks Putin to protect Sudan from the United States, saying he wants closer military ties with Russia.
December 16, 2018 -Bashir visits Syria. This marks the first time anArab Leagueleader has visited Syria sincewar began there in 2011.
February 22, 2019 -Declares a year-long state of emergency in response to months of protests nationwide and calls for his resignation.
March 1, 2019 -Steps down as chairman of the National Congress Party.
April 11, 2019 -After three decades of rule,Bashir is arrested and is forced from power in a military coup. Bashir’s government is dissolved, and a military council assumes control for two years to oversee a transition of power, according to a televised statement by Sudanese Defense Minister Awad Mohamed Ahmed Ibn Auf.
May 13, 2019 -Sudan’s Public Prosecutor’s Office has instructed expedited charges be brought against Bashirin the killing of protestors, according to a statement released to CNN.
August 19, 2019 -Bashir appears in a Khartoum court for the first day of his corruption trial.He has heightened security following a failed attempt by his supporters to break him out of prison.
December 14, 2019 -Bashir is sentenced to two years in a correctional facilityafter being found guilty of corruption and illegitimate possession of foreign currency.
February 11, 2020 -A member of Sudan’s ruling sovereign council announces thatall Sudanese wanted by the ICC will be handed over, including Bashir.
July 21, 2020 -Bashir’s trial over his role in the 1989 coup d’etat that propelled him to power begins in Khartoum.He faces a maximum sentence of death.
August 11, 2021- In a statement given to CNN,Sudan’s Cabinet of Ministers announce the government will hand Bashir over to the ICC along with other officials wanted over the Darfur conflict.
April 26, 2023 -Unconfirmed reports claim Bashir is among the prisoners released from Kober prison. However, the media office of Sudan’s Police and sources familiar with the matter tell CNN thatBashir was transferred to Alia Specialized Hospital a year ago due to health problems.
© 2024 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.

Title: Jérôme Tubiana and Clotilde Warin · Diary: Migrant Flows
London Review of Books
More search Options
Browse by Subject
More​ than a million migrants crossed the Mediterranean during the refugee crisis of 2015, with about 850,000 landing in Greece and the remainder in Italy. By March 2016 the EU had signed an agreement with Turkey: Ankara would do its best to ensure that the refugees (mostly Syrian) pushing up into Turkey would remain there, while the EU would send refugees arriving in Greece (mostly but not all Syrian) back to Turkey. The deal was based on the assumption that Turkey was a ‘safe country’, and criticised on two counts: first, refugee experts didn’t believe it was all that safe, and second, many felt Brussels shouldn’t be making deals with an authoritarian regime, or promising it large sums of money – roughly six billion euros – in return for co-operation. But as far as the EU was concerned, the deal was a success: in 2016, the number of migrants dropped by two thirds, with 363,000 arriving by sea, less than half of these landing in Greece. The number arriving in Italy increased, however, to roughly 180,000. Rome and Brussels reacted by seeking to negotiate a replica of the Turkish agreement with those countries south of the Mediterranean from which refugees set out: Libya, Sudan and Niger were described as Europe’s new ‘southern border’. But Sudan is much less safe for asylum seekers than Turkey, and Libya is extremely dangerous. Since the fall of Gaddafi in 2011 there has been no functioning state with full control of the country. The Government of National Accord (GNA), created by an agreement signed in Morocco in December 2015 and internationally recognised, has no proper army and depends on militias to ensure its survival. Sudan, meanwhile, is a failed state whose long civil wars have displaced nearly four million of its own citizens – increasingly they too are seeking asylum in Europe.
Despite all this, in February 2016 Brussels established a High-Level Dialogue on migration with Khartoum and announced a special fund of €100 million to improve the living conditions of displaced Sudanese and migrants inside Sudan and tackle the causes of migration. A Memorandum of Understanding with the GNA followed in August. Two months later the EU began training the Libyan coastguard, largely a consortium of militia forces. In 2017 Italy signed a new Memorandum of Understanding with the GNA. The agreement, which was immediately endorsed by Brussels, allowed Italy and the EU to provide financial, material and intelligence support to a Libyan coastguard force that would intercept migrants before they reached Europe. In May, Rome delivered the first consignment of speedboats.
In mid-2017 the number of migrants began to drop significantly. In 2018, fewer than 120,000 crossed the Mediterranean, the majority from Morocco to Spain; less than 20 per cent crossed from Libya to Italy. According to the UN, around two-thirds of the migrants who left from Libya were intercepted by the new coastguard; their boats were towed back. But the success of these policies comes at a human cost. In Libya and Sudan, militias were already involved in human smuggling – and highly abusive forms of human trafficking – and migrants are now at higher risk. As well as perilous sea and desert routes, they face violence from armed groups, some in the pay of Brussels and Rome. The militias have a vested interest in controlling – rather than stemming – migrant flows, adjusting them to get maximum European funding. They also depend on the ‘failed’ nature of the states in which they do business and have a stake in their disarray.
Roughly four thousand Sudanese request asylum in France every year, making them one of the country’s largest group of asylum seekers. Through our work as migration researchers we have spoken to a number of them, including Al-Nur, from North Darfur. He is 43; in the Parisian diaspora of Sudanese and other sub-Saharans, he is seen as an old man. He’d been a relatively prosperous farmer and livestock owner until 2003, when the war in Darfur began and the Janjawiid – Sudanese pro-government militias sent to ‘pacify’ the area – looted his herds and burned down his village. He left and found work as a casual labourer – making bricks, felling trees, burning charcoal, thatching roofs and drying fish. He married Hala, a woman from the Nuba Mountains, another of Sudan’s war zones, and the couple moved to a small community on the southern edge of the Sahara, where Al-Nur found work as a water carrier. In September 2016, he heard rumours that smugglers were running people north to Libya, where there were plentiful jobs for sub-Saharan migrants on the large farms, watered by ground aquifers, that Gaddafi had created across the Libyan desert.
Al-Nur paid 4000 Sudanese pounds (around £500) to be driven to Libya with Hala. No sooner was the money paid than they were locked in a compound in Malha, a small town in Darfur many hours by road from the Libyan border, with a hundred migrants from East Africa (mostly Eritrea and Somalia), West Africa (Nigeria and Senegal) and Bangladesh. Half a dozen armed and uniformed Sudanese were posted at the door. Al-Nur referred to them as ‘Arabs’: common parlance for the Janjawiid militias. When he tried to talk to them, their reply was always the same: ‘We are the government.’
The guards were indeed Janjawiid, in their most recent guise as Rapid Support Forces (RSF). In 2013 Khartoum began integrating Janjawiid militias into a new, better equipped, paramilitary body, reportedly under the direct control of President Omar al-Bashir. The current leader of the RSF is Mohamed Hamdan, known as Hemmeti, a young warlord who proved less refractory than his rivals for the job. In 2016, after Sudan and the EU began their High-Level Dialogue, Khartoum deployed the RSF to intercept migrants aiming for the Libyan border: a unilateral decision that came as a surprise – and something of an embarrassment – to Brussels. Hemmeti, who appears regularly on state TV, claims to have arrested thousands of migrants ‘on behalf of Europe’. He has also threatened laxity on the Sudan/Libya border if the ‘hard work’ of his 23,000 men ‘scattered throughout the desert’ is not rewarded by the EU.
While Hemmeti claims to be Europe’s point man in Sudan, his rank and file in the RSF earn extra income trafficking the migrants they are supposed to intercept. Al-Nur’s experience confirms this. One night, around midnight, he and his fellow migrants, holed up on the Sudanese side of the frontier, were ordered into four pickups, 24 passengers in each, and covered with plastic tarpaulins. The lead vehicle and the last were equipped with mounted machine guns. The little convoy included 12 armed RSF men, all in uniform. Many migrants we’ve interviewed say they were smuggled from Sudan to Libya in RSF vehicles. Several RSF soldiers have told us that they smuggled more migrants into Libya than they intercepted. ‘Officially, our orders are to drive the migrants back to their country of origin,’ one of them said. ‘So, from time to time, we intercept migrants and transfer them back to Khartoum, to show the authorities we are doing the job … but the reality is quite different … The RSF drive migrants to Libya. Migrant smuggling is not a sin.’ If the RSF stopped people smuggling, he believed, others would take over. ‘So why not benefit from it and make some money? Fuel costs are already covered by the government.’
It took two days for Al-Nur’s party to reach the Libyan border, around 600 km from their point of departure (Al-Nur made a hole in the tarpaulin with his teeth in order to breathe more easily). Deep in the western desert the RSF handed over their passengers to Libyan traffickers in military uniform who drove pickups with Libyan flags. They told the migrants to sit in a circle with their heads lowered, Al-Nur remembered, and threatened to shoot any ‘slave’ who moved. They fired their weapons in the air.
Al-Nur and the others were then driven to Umm-el-Araneb, a small town that has grown up at a junction of desert roads. Al-Nur and Hala were separated. The men were held in shipping containers in the compound. ‘You only have a plastic bucket where you can piss. Every day people are taken out and new people come.’ Around two hundred and fifty migrants were already in the compound when Al-Nur and his companions arrived. Here, too, they were referred to as ‘slaves’. ‘We know you want to go to Europe but you’re our slaves, you have been sold to us,’ they were told. ‘You have to pay to get released.’
When Al-Nur told them that he and Hala had no money, he was told to stop ‘talking nonsense’. Their captors were distributing mobile phones to the migrants, so they could call their families and persuade them to send ransom money: the Sudanese were asked for 4000 Libyan dinars (LYD) – around £2000. The others were told: ‘You have family in Europe, we don’t accept anything but euros or dollars.’ The belief in Libya is that Eritreans, in particular, can rely on rich diasporas in Europe or the US, and they are asked for larger sums, in hard currency. The migrants were tortured with blazing pieces of plastic piping until they agreed to call their relatives; sometimes the torture continued during the call. Al-Nur showed us the scars on his legs. He had burns only on his legs because, his torturers explained, ‘You are an old man.’ Others have more extensive injuries. The torture was filmed and sent to the migrants’ relatives via social media. Al-Nur felt sure there was nothing his family could do and that a call would only cause them distress. He didn’t call anyone. After two months, the man in charge of the prison told him that if he couldn’t come up with the money he would have to work to pay off his debt. Al-Nur and Hala were sold to a farmer known for his brutal treatment of labourers. They were told they would spend ten months there before being released.
After two months they managed to escape and made their way up to the coast, about 900 kilometres away, and with the help of the Sudanese exile network Al-Nur found work in a bakery in Sabratha, west of Tripoli. One day he heard a customer asking the owner: ‘I have some people to send to Europe, who can do that?’ The owner put the man in touch with a smuggler called Abdelbasit. Al-Nur knew who Abdelbasit was – he had a reputation among the Sudanese community for helping people in search of work and came regularly to buy bread for his migrant passengers. He was also, Al-Nur discovered, a relative of Ahmed Dabashi, aka Amu (‘Uncle’), the main migrant smuggler, and militia leader, in Sabratha. Al-Nur told his boss that he too wanted to go to Europe: Libya was too dangerous, and he heard endless stories about migrants being kidnapped by traffickers who hoped to extort money from relatives abroad. At first his employer said he wanted him to stay. If he kept working as well as he had been, the man said, he could leave the following year.
He relented in July 2017 and the couple arranged their passage. They were among a hundred migrants who set off in a large wooden boat. Abdelbasit was with them in the boat, which was escorted by a smaller dinghy. After half an hour, the migrants noticed the outline of another vessel ahead. Abdelbasit set a course for the migrants to follow, boarded the smaller dinghy, and headed back to shore, telling them that if they were stopped by the Libyan coastguard they should say they were ‘Amu’s people’ and there wouldn’t be a problem. The approaching vessel was a patrol boat equipped with machine guns. (When we met, Al-Nur recognised it from a photograph included in a report by the UN Security Council Panel of Experts on Libya and captioned ‘the only patrol boat of this size operating between Tripoli and the Tunisian border’.) Half a dozen uniformed men with weapons were on deck when the vessel rammed the migrants’ boat. Two of them jumped into the boat and began firing into the air and the sea. The migrants shouted Amu’s name. ‘We don’t know Amu, we’re the coastguard!’ the gunmen replied. ‘Don’t move, or we’ll throw you into the sea.’ A rope was cast down and the migrants held on to it as their boat, along with two others captured that night, was towed back to the Libyan coast.
They disembarked in Zawiya, the main base west of Tripoli for the newly founded coastguard units. Al-Nur and Hala were detained in an unfinished four-storey building which already held several hundred prisoners. Here the guards told the migrants that if they paid LYD 2000 (£1000) each they would be put back in a dinghy for Europe. Those who couldn’t pay would be transferred to ‘Osama prison’, a detention centre run by the GNA’s Ministry of the Interior, where they could be stuck indefinitely. In Zawiya, Al-Nur and his fellow migrants were once again beaten and burned by the guards in the hope that their relatives would be persuaded to transfer money for their release and Al-Nur finally made the phone call he’d refused to make in Umm-el-Araneb.
In the end it was Hala’s brothers who sent money. After two weeks and one night in Zawiya, 110 migrants who had managed to scrabble together the ransom were put to sea again. Before they left, Al-Nur heard one of their captors making a call to a senior officer in the Libyan coastguard: ‘We have people leaving, you have to ease off today.’ ‘The trouble with him,’ he said as he ended the call, ‘is that he’s stopping every boat.’ To make sure that Al-Nur and his companions weren’t pulled back this time, the same patrol boat that had intercepted them, with the same uniformed guards, escorted them deep into international waters. The following day they were picked up by the NGO rescue shipAquariusand taken to Sicily. (Last September, theAquariusceased operating after Panama gave in to Italian pressure and revoked its registration.)
Italy has been spurred to extraordinary unilateral action in Libya. As Zawiya was being beefed up as a base for the new coastguard, the Italians began negotiating directly with the smugglers and traffickers on the Libyan coast. One of their main interlocutors was Ahmed Dabashi, the Sabratha trafficker: a direct meeting was apparently brokered by local elders. Dabashi is said to have made a deal with Italy and the GNA: he would renounce smuggling and join the anti-immigration drive, in return for salaries for his militias and new equipment, including boats, channelled by Italy through the GNA. There were also rumours that he had received $6 million as a down payment from the Italian intelligence services. Whether or not that’s true, by the time Al-Nur and Hala were being processed as asylum seekers in Sicily, Dabashi’s forces were starting to work with the GNA. In late 2017 a conflict erupted in Sabratha between Dabashi’s forces and his erstwhile smuggling partners, who were joined by rival militias in the town.
Another Sudanese migrant we interviewed, who was in Dabashi’s custody at the time, remembers Dabashi’s militia coming to the embarkation points and press-ganging migrants to fight on their side in the conflict: ‘They picked us, Sudanese, Somalis, Ethiopians and Eritreans, and asked us if we had experience with firearms. Skilled fighters were given a gun, and others were responsible for loading.’ Our interviewee was no good at either, so he was beaten, then given a hammer, and told to knock holes in the walls for Dabashi’s snipers to use. ‘We were exposed to crossfire and five of us were injured, and replaced by others,’ he told us. According to a report by the Global Initiative against Transnational Organised Crime, Italy’s plan to turn Sabratha’s militias ‘into law enforcement entities’ resulted in ‘a 19-day war in which more than forty people were killed, 350 injured and 15,000 displaced’.
When migrants arrive in Italy, their fingerprints are taken. Like most Sudanese, Al-Nur didn’t want to stay in Italy and headed to France – mostly on foot – to lodge his asylum claim. But according to the EU’s Dublin Regulation, asylum applicants must be processed in the member state where their fingerprints are taken. Some migrants burn their fingertips or disfigure them with razors and caustic chemicals to avoid this, but Al-Nur was ‘Dublined’, as migrants say, in Italy. When we met him in Paris, he was under orders from the French Ministry of the Interior to return to Italy, his first port of call. Hala died a few days after they had crossed the Mediterranean. She never told him what went on while they were kept in separate containers in Umm-el-Araneb and he still doesn’t know what happened to her. But he had seen migrant women brought to his compound and raped by the guards in front of the male detainees. The guards called these occasions ‘TV shows’.
In June, Al-Nur was put on a plane from Paris to Milan. At the airport, ‘the Italians issued some papers and left us in the street without explanation.’ He spent two nights in the railway station at Milan, took a train to the French border and walked across the Alps, travelling by night and hiding from ground patrols and helicopters, following a path he remembered taking when he first left Italy. Within a week, he was back in Paris, with a new document from the French authorities telling him to return to Italy. The Dublin Regulation is a nightmare for asylum seekers and a huge injustice to the Mediterranean member-states of the EU – Greece, Italy and Spain – which are obliged to kettle migrants in the absence of a proper policy for their dispersal throughout the Union. On 3 January Al-Nur was summoned by the French authorities and told he had been granted leave to remain. He is now waiting for an appointment with an asylum officer.
Send Letters To:
The EditorLondon Review of Books,28 Little Russell StreetLondon, WC1A 2HNletters@lrb.co.ukPlease include name, address, and a telephone number.
Vol. 41 No. 24 · 19 December 2019
Excellent essays by Thomas Meaney (LRB, 7 November) and Jérôme Tubiana and Clotilde Warin (LRB, 21 March) draw attention to the violence, oppression and crimes against humanity in Sudan. But why do both authors refer to events in Darfur as a ‘war’, while consistently avoiding the word ‘genocide’? Perhaps they are hesitant because political institutions have gone back and forth on the matter. As early as July 2004 the US Congress passed a resolution calling what was taking place in Darfur a genocide. But both the United Nations, in the initial report to the secretary-general in 2005, and the International Criminal Court in their initial investigation (also 2005), steered clear of a direct charge of genocide. The ICC reversed its decision in 2009 in issuing a warrant for Omar al-Bashir. Today, the actions of the Janjawiid militias in Darfur from 2003 onwards are no longer regarded as ambiguous cases by serious scholars of genocide, of Sudan, or of international legal opinion.
Whether or not events in Darfur meet the standard in international human rights law for genocide, you could be forgiven for thinking it meets the conventional understanding of the term: thousands of people were murdered as part of a centrally directed state strategy on the basis of their presumed ethnicity.
Avoiding the word is not a neutral stance. During the Rwandan genocide US State Department officials were instructed to avoid the word ‘genocide’ because using it implied the US government ought to act. And redescribing genocidal episodes as ‘wars’ has a long and dishonourable history. Turkish state denials of the reality of the Armenian genocide have frequently sought to frame events as ‘merely’ the sort of collateral damage that happens in war, and deniers of the Rwandan genocide are often keen to present the events of 1994 as an armed conflict between symmetrical sides, both of which committed regrettable war crimes. The original reasoning of the UN in resisting the label of genocide is chillingly reminiscent of the way the Turkish government has repeatedly represented the events of 1914: ‘Generally speaking the policy of attacking, killing and forcibly displacing members of some tribes does not evince a specific intent to annihilate, in whole or in part, a group distinguished on racial, ethnic, national or religious grounds. Rather, it would seem that those who planned and organised attacks on villages pursued the intent to drive the victims from their homes, primarily for purposes of counter-insurgency warfare.’
I will leave it to philosophers defending the doctrine of double-effect to assess the importance of the distinction between seeking to annihilate and pursuing policies in the knowledge that annihilation is a forseeable consequence. We know of Janjawiid attacks that involve going from house to house killing every man and boy and raping every woman and girl. We know there was aerial bombing of towns and villages. We know the bombings sometimes used chemical weapons. We know the Janjawiid pursued fleeing refugees, sometimes across international borders to what were supposed to be safe havens in Chad. To call this a war risks giving comfort to denialists and perpetrators, and transgresses on the dignity of victims and survivors.
Will JonesRoyal Holloway, University of London
The EditorLondon Review of Books28 Little Russell StreetLondon, WC1A 2HNletters@lrb.co.ukPlease include name, address and a telephone number
Read anywhere with theLondon Review of Booksapp, available now from theApp Storefor Apple devices,Google Playfor Android devices andAmazonfor your Kindle Fire.
Find out more about the London Review of Books app
For highlights from the latest issue, our archive and the blog, as well as news, events and exclusive promotions.
Newsletter Preferences
This site requires the use of Javascript to provide the best possible experience. Please change your browser settings to allow Javascript content to run.

Title: MSN


Title: Nation - Breaking News, Kenya, Africa, Politics, Business, Sports | HOME | Nation
The proposed talks now appear headed for a standoff.
Raila also promised to pursue a continental air control system to reduce bureaucratic hurdles.
Kuppet says it prefers talks over protracted court battles.
New officials will take over once the terms of the current office holders expire.
DPP urges the court to impose a maximum sentence on the politician.
Prof Mary Walingo in legal trouble after the university council accuses her of embezzlement.
Kenya to deploy its High commissioners and ambassadors in massive campaigns across the continent.
Sponsored by HF Markets
Sponsored by Stand Up Young Africa (SUYA) Foundation
Sponsored by Tanzania Ports Authority
Sponsored by Open University of Kenya
The economic case of family planning and why it matters not only to individuals and families, but for the nation at large.
Article 57 of the Kenyan Constitution commands the State and the family to offer older persons in the society reasonable care and assistance. As per the Constitution older women and men are those...
From Frequently Asked Questions to school going children must register before reporting. Join the conversation with Health Lawyer, Margaret Nyambura , Dr Simon Kigondu and host, Dr Diana Wangari
Raila also promised to pursue a continental air control system to reduce bureaucratic hurdles.
Events from far and wide seemed to have converged to bring Raila Odinga good fortune.
Aviation Workers Union demands transparency as government scrambles to avert aviation crisis
Frequent and erratic revision of regulations creates shaky ground for the construction industry.
Prezzo, a pioneer in the Kenyan music scene, has significantly influenced the industry over the years.
A walk to a gym in Nairobi on any day, you can rest assured to find almost all women rocking those sports bras.
Kenyan students shine with captivation presentations at the Music and Drama Festival in Uganda.
Kenyan champions go down fighting to CBE.
Nation Media Group © 2024

Title: Home | Monitor
The directive follows concerns raised by MPs from Greater Northern region about the state of road networks and infrastructure, particularly the delays in the Karuma Bridge project
The judge's order is intended to facilitate the defense team's cross-examination of forensic scientist Andrew Kizimula Mubiru, scheduled to begin on September 10
The government plans to increase funding to all its schools and ensure parents do not make any financial contributions
The nine-time champions have had to endure a season dominated by a series of problems.
Cheptegei expressed his gratitude, saying he is excited about building partnerships with supportive organisations
Concentrating government offices and activities in Kampala has created a property asset bubble in the capital that is at odds with how congested and unliveable the city has become
Much as the rear seats were designed to accommodate three passengers, they can comfortably take on four passengers and each will have enough legroom, even for long distances
Several subscribers have cancelled their pay TV subscriptions in favour of streaming services that provide on-demand content, flexible viewing options, and budget-friendly subscription plans.
When he met Aline Kalisa, Rogers Murungi was going through a divorce with the mother of his two children
Like someone had opened the floodgates, other symptoms followed on the heels of her snapping knees. The worst were the hot flashes
Manchester United forward Alejandro Garnacho has the potential to become a world class player, manager Erik ten Hag has said
Nation Media Group © 2024
It's free!
Access the best of Monitor's Independent Journalism

Title: Terror swoop nets 13 linked to Sulu, Abu Sayyaf and Maute groups | FMT


Title: Stop harassing Swedish media, watchdog tells China
STOCKHOLM: Media rights watchdog Reporters Without Borders (RSF) on Monday urged China’s embassy in Stockholm to stop harassing Swedish journalists, accusing Beijing of trying to impose censorship outside its borders.
RSF intervened following the latest in a series of statements by the Chinese embassy there, this time attacking the news website of Sweden’s public broadcaster SVT.
China’s ambassador to Sweden, Gui Congyou, “has embarked on a ‘truth’ crusade against the country’s media since taking office in August 2017”, RSF said in its statement.
Since July 2018, the embassy has denounced multiple Swedish news outlets, including the country’s two main national dailies Dagens Nyheter and Svenska Dagbladet and the news agency TT.
Regional dailies Upsala Nya Tidning and Nya Wermlands-Tidningen, and public sector weekly Dagens Samhalle have also come in for criticism.
“Diplomatic missions have no say in the editorial content of media in their host country,“ Erik Halkjaer, the head of RSF Sweden said.
The embassy’s latest statement criticised the SVT website for publishing an opinion piece written by a representative to the Taipei mission on Feb 27, calling for support for Taiwanese democracy amid threats from China.
China and Taiwan split after a civil war in 1949, but Beijing still sees the self-ruling island as part of its territory, to be brought back into the fold.
Beijing has stepped up diplomatic pressure on Taiwan since President Tsai Ing-wen took office in 2016, as she has refused to acknowledge its “one China” policy.
Cedric Alviani, the head of RSF’s East Asia bureau, said China’s attacks on Swedish media “reveal the unrestrained attitude with which Beijing is now trying to impose its censorship outside its borders”.
RSF recalled that China is the world’s biggest jailer of journalists, with more than 60 currently detained, while Sweden ranked second in the RSF’s 2018 World Press Freedom Index.
Ties between Sweden and China have been strained in recent years, following the detention of publisher Gui Minhai, a Chinese-born Swede who vanished into Chinese custody in January 2018 under murky circumstances.
China also lodged a diplomatic complaint in September 2018 accusing Swedish police of treating Chinese tourists “brutally” after a family was ejected from a Stockholm hotel.
Following that incident, a Swedish satirical current affairs programme on SVT poked fun at China, prompting Beijing to demand an apology and accusing it of racism. —AFP

Tel: +603-7784 6688      Fax: +603-7785 2625

Title: MSN


Title: Sudanese want comprehensive sustainable peace - Sudan Tribune
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
By Mahmoud A. Suleiman
The December 19th 2018 Glorious Revolutionary People of Sudan have great hope fraught with some caution about what is going on in the platform of the City of Juba, the Capital of the Sisterly Republic of South Sudan for the Peace Negotiations. At the same time, the Sudanese people value some negotiation outcomes between the Armed Struggle Forces (ASF) and Members of the Transitional Sovereign Council (TSC). And the caution that was mentioned stems from the past experiences and outputs of previous negotiations, starting with the Cities of N’Djamena and Abéché in Chad, then Abuja, the Capital of Nigeria, followed by the City of Tripoli, the Capital of Libya, The seat of the late Leader Muammar Gaddafi, may God have mercy on him, and finally, to the City of Doha, the Capital of the Gulf State of Qatar, all of which unfortunately did not come With any tangible well-negotiated Comprehensive Sustainable Peace Agreements that address and learn the Roots of the Conflicts and the Crises that resulted from their pains, and the final result is what the Darfur Region and its civilian Sudanese Citizens have been suffering Until Today and Since the outbreak of the armed Revolution and Darfur rebels took up to arms in 2002 in response to and when the Arrogant Warmonger, the then Génocidaire Omer Hassan Ahmed al-Bashir, declared that his Islamist Regime Would Neither listen nor Negotiate with the ones who did not currying arms, as He had come to Power into Sudan through the Barrel of the Gun – aka Military coup d’état.
At this pivotal juncture, we will now return to evaluating some attitudes towards Peace in Sudan, which has suffered from wars and whose people aspire for peace to make carrying arms something of the past Dark days that were full of pessimism and woes. Now the slogan must be peace first and foremost and at all the time, everywhere, in a Free and Just Democratic Sudan. This is more so especially there is power and desire to bring peace. Peace is a blessing and under this, we can assuredly say the following:A reassuring Circular from Mohamed Hassan Osman al-Taishi the member of the Transitional Sovereignty Council on the appointment of Governors and he indicated that by saying: “Some media outlets circulated inaccurate information; stating that the order to appoint governors is more important than the ongoing Peace process and that Peace negotiations with the Sudanese Revolutionary Front (SRF) have failed; No such Statement or assertion was issued in this sense; Peace is imperative and necessary, and We have so far reached nearly eighty per cent; that is a step that the Government and its Partners take in the direction of Preserving what has been Accomplished and completing what remains.” Al-Taishi went on indicating that political reality cannot be changed because the government has reached agreement with the armed struggle forces on the Peace Agreement that we work and hope to reach soon will prevail over the existing political reality; and that nothing is more important at the present time than the Completion of the file of a Just and Comprehensive Peace. By Mohamed Hassan Othman al-Taishi  the official spokesman for the negotiating government delegation Juba, 28 February 2020
A joint committee has been formed between the Transitional Government and the Sudanese Revolutionary Front (SRF) to discuss the matter of governors; the time period granted to the committee and stipulated in the agreement has passed without reaching an agreement to settle the matter as the Sudanese Revolutionary Front remains attached to its opinion and is a valued opinion, and the Transitional Government has spoken of the urgent need to fill the administrative void in the States with Civilian rulers/Governors who perform their duties towards the requirements of the daily lives of citizens.
The government does not talk about appointing governors to talk about assigning governors until a final peace agreement is signed;
*	Our reservation remains at this time about appointing state governors before achieving peace, and in addition to that, we reject those voices that are far from the goals of achieving Peace and raising their screams calling for what they describe it  “Early Elections” and those who call for Early General Elections in all  Regions of Sudan at this time are nothing but the group of the Old Defunct Political Vessels Who Played Malicious Roles Since the Independence of Sudan 64 Years ago to repeat the dirty games of Conspiring with the Military Junta to create a Military Coup after a Coup whenever they felt they were about to lose grip of power to rule Sudan through Democratic system of Governance. Those Sudanese political party leaders their only concern was either their Permanent and Forever Presence in Power of Sudan or the flood! The is usually followed by a Junta to carry out military coups when it fails to manage Sudan’s rule, and it is usually a  military junta affiliated to a certain  Political Party to carry out a military coup behind every failed party government. Thus, Sudan sadly witnessed and suffered so many military Junta Rules since the dawn of independence from the Anglo-Egyptian Condominium amounting approximately to Seven main Military Coups and let alone to the plethora of short-lived coup attempts. The Sudanese people continued to suffer from dictatorship and the difficulties of living under the rule of military coups; the main Military Coups under which the people of Sudan suffered are:1)	The 17 November 1958 military coup led by General Ibrahim Abboud2)	The 1969 Sudanese coup d’etat was a successful coup, led by Col. Gaafar Nimeiry, against the government of President Ismail al-Azhari. The coup signalled the end of Sudan’s second democratic era and saw the beginning of Nimeiry’s 16-year rule3)	The 1971 Sudanese coup d’état was a short-lived communist-backed coup, led by Major Hashem al Atta, against the government of President Gaafar Nimeiry.4)	The 1977 Sudanese Juba coup d’état attempt was an unsuccessful coup, led by 12 Air Force members who had previously been members of Anyanya. The exact specifications of the coup attempt vary, although tend to focus on a failed attempt by the group to take the airport5)	The 1985 Sudanese coup d’état was a military coup that occurred in Sudan on 6 April 1985. The coup was staged by a group of military officers and led by the Defense Minister and Armed Forces Commander-in-Chief, Field Marshal Abdel Rahman Swar al-Dahab, against the government of President Gaafar Nimeiry6)	The 1989 Sudanese coup d’état was a military coup that occurred in Sudan on 30 June 1989 against the democratically-elected government of Prime Minister Sadiq al-Mahdi and President Ahmed al-Mirghani. The coup was led by military officer Omar al-Bashir who took power in its aftermath and would go on to rule the country for the next 30 years until he was overthrown in 2019.7)	The 1990 Sudanese coup d’état attempt was a bloodless coup attempt which took place in Sudan on 23 April 1990.[1][2] Reportedly orchestrated by two retired Armed Forces officers, Major General Abdul Gadir al Kadaru and Brigadier Mohamed Osman Karrar, and planned by junior officers loyal to them, the coup attempt was directed against the RCCNS, the ruling military junta led by Lieutenant General Omar al-Bashir (who himself took power in the 1989 coup d’état).8)	On the morning of 11 April 2019, Sudanese dictator Omar al-Bashir was removed from power by the Sudanese Armed Forces amid ongoing protests after holding the office for nearly 30 yearshttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Military_coups_in_Sudan
*	To those staunchly affiliated to the political parties, we say to them, No, then no to a so-called General Early Elections.*	Peace is the Gateway to Solving the current Political Crises in Sudan
* The Peace agreement is an opportunity to the correct some of the probable unintended mistakes of the Transitional Period.* We are on the Verge of Signing Various Peace Agreements in the post-December 19th 2018 Glorious Revolution in Sudan.Peace Negotiations in the city of Juba, the capital of the Republic of South Sudan, on its multiple tracks, remain at the admiration and confidence of the Sudanese people who aspire to stability and a decent life in the shadow of the three slogans of the 19th December 2018 Glorious Popular Revolution of freedom, peace and justice.Peace is indivisible, given the Victories achieved in Juba that included the Goodwill Agreement for the release of some Prisoners of War (POW) belonging to the Sudanese Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) from the Huda Prison and other Prisons and the signing of the agreement for the share of the Negotiations on the path of the region of Darfur in the western Sudan, which took place in the City of Juba, the capital of the Republic of South Sudan, the location of the negotiations with respect to The Darfur Region’s Share at the division of the Government Sudan jobs, in addition to our heartfelt happiness that our brothers in the Republic of South Sudan reaching a consensus and resolving the disputes and their Sublimation above differences in opting for Peace and the well-being of their fellow citizens along with their conclusion by paying off the Peace dues and the agreement of each of them to accept the state positions offered; thus making us in Sudan very happy. Our happiness has been doubled by the release of the Prisoners of Conscience or the Prisoners of War (POWs) which is one of the most important elements of Peace after the prolonged suffering caused by the absurd Wars of attrition that has been waged for Seventeen odd years by the warmonger Omer Hassan Ahmed al-Bashir who committed the most heinous crimes which included genocide against civilian Sudanese citizens in the Darfur region. This Omer al-Bashir was supported by the elements in the National Congress Party (NCP) regime and shared him in committing the crimes against humanity, war crimes and crimes of genocide and being indicted by the International Criminal Court (ICC) at The Hague in the Netherlands since the year 2009 and remained fugitive. His deplorable entourage of Abdelrahim Mohammed Hussein, Ahmed Muhammed Haroun, Ali Osman Mohammed Taha and Ali Muhammad Ali Abd-Al-Rahman, commonly known as Ali Kushayb, is a senior Janjaweed commander supporting the Sudanese government against Darfur rebel groups, and as of June 2019, is sought under an arrest warrant by the International Criminal Court (ICC) are as well involved in committing the foregoing heinous crimes against humanity, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and genocide and remain at large.It is a known documented fact that around two million people are currently displaced inside Sudan, as (IDPs) while more than 650,000 Sudanese refugees live in neighbouring countries – including Chad and South Sudan. Some 300,000 refugees from the Darfur region are currently living in 12 UNHCR and government-run camps in Eastern Chad.https://www.google.com/search?q=number+of+the+internally+displaced+and+refugees+from+darfur&oq=number+of+the+internally+displaced+and+refugees+from+darfur&aqs=chrome..69i57j33l2.38120j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8Eric Reeves reporting on the size of Darfurian refugees in Eastern Chad said: “Darfur Refugees in Eastern Chad: The Most Invisible Casualties of the Darfur Genocide “Hundreds of thousands of African/non-Arab Darfuris remain trapped as refugees in twelve main camps in eastern Chad, unable to return because of the massive insecurity that continues to prevail in most of Darfur—insecurity that will only increase with the severe reductions in the UN/African Union “hybrid” Mission in Darfur (UNAMID). On June 30, 2017, the UN Security Council renewed the mandate for UNAMID, but—at Khartoum’s behest—reduced the military presence in Darfur by 44 per cent and the police presence by more than 30 per cent”. https://sudanreeves.org/2017/08/08/darfur-refugees-in-eastern-chad-the-most-invisible-casualties-of-the-darfur-genocide/
Hats Off for the ongoing achievements of the Juba Platform for Peace in Sudan.Meaning of Hats off to (someone or something)A phrase used to express congratulations to someone or something. (The removal of one’s hat is typically a gesture of respect.) Hats off to you for getting the big promotion! See also: hat, off. https://www.google.com/search?q=hats+off+meaning&oq=Hats+Off&aqs=chrome.7.0l8.25869j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8This article besides its timeliness, it also indicates and shows this author’s obsession with Peace; that is understandable as Peace represents the safety gate for livelihood for any humankind on the globe.
This is a Review and/or a political exploratory article that comes against a backdrop of browsing the article written by Mohammed Nour Oudo under the title: “Peace is coming from Juba, which has been embracing the negotiations of the Sudanese factions since late last year. Peace is beginning to appear waving positive statements by the delegations participating in the negotiations. These positive statements issued every day by the leaders of the Armed Struggle Movements, the delegation of the Transitional Government, the leaders of the Sudanese political parties and the mediation committee in the state of South Sudan have entered reassurance in the hearts of the Sudanese people, the Sudanese street is optimistic about achieving peace soon.
ابشروا  يا شعب السوداني منبر جوبا سيحقق السلام الشامل.

Go ahead, Sudanese people, the platform of Juba will achieve a comprehensive peace Ustaz Mohamed Nour Oudo is among the permanent and active columnists who are staunchly adhered to the cause of the Sudanese Darfurians and belongs to the membership the Sudanese Justice and Equality Movement (JEM). Ustaz Mohamed Nour Oudo indicates with confidence that Peace is coming from Juba, which has been embracing the negotiations of the Sudanese factions since late last year. Peace is beginning to appear waving positive statements by the delegations participating in the negotiations. These positive statements issued every day by the leaders of the Armed Struggle Movements (ASM), the delegation of the Transitional Government (TG), the leaders of the Sudanese Political Parties and the Mediation Committee in the Republic of South Sudan. Moreover, he says that the Peace Negotiations have entered reassurance into the Hearts of the Sudanese People who have been longing for a comprehensive sustainable Peace that addresses the roots of the chronic Sudanese crises that have been delaying the progress of the country since the Dawn of Independence on January 1, 1956, from the Anglo-Egyptian Condominium.
He reiterates that Comprehensive peace is the dream of every Sudanese citizen after living through the wars that led to displacement, migration into the nowhere around the globe, seeking asylum since the colonizer’s exit, and after the fall of the National Congress Party (NCP) regime – AKA Rescue Government- that was trading in the Sudanese problem through false negotiations and fragile agreements. That is why we find the determination and seriousness of the leaders of the Armed Struggle Movements (ASM) and the Transitional Government led by the Prime Minister, Dr Abdalla Hamdok to reach a Comprehensive Peace that brings back Sudan to the forefront of countries of the World after it has been dwarfed for thirty years by the defunct National Islamic Front (NIF) /National Congress Party (NCP) regime led by the genocidal criminal Omer Hassan Ahmed al-Bashir.
The Juba platform is not a platform for negotiations for a job or partnership of a dictatorial government that came to power with a military coup. Rather, it is a platform for solving the Sudanese problem by addressing the root causes of the problem and dealing with them permanently and laying the foundations for the management of Sudan’s rule in the future. Lieutenant General Salva Kiir Mayardit and his government salute the mediation team, delegates from the international community and peace partners for their valuable efforts.
The gathering of the people of Sudan in their second homeland, the state of South Sudan, in a round table is not just for meetings between different parties politically, and they disperse without reaching a result or peace as some think, but to discuss solving the Sudanese problem in a transparent, sincere dialogue, earnestly, and with determination, putting the interest of the homeland in the eyes of their eyes.The Sudanese people have benefited, and the negotiating parties in Juba have benefited from past experiences from previous negotiations and agreements that did not bring peace, stability, or security, so they do not want to repeat the past. Peace is everyone’s goal.
It is Good news for the Sudanese people who yearn for a decent life in peace which is inevitably coming soon.There is no war in Sudan after the platform in Juba from where Peace will prevail throughout Sudan, and Sudan will enjoy stability, security and safety and prosperity; optimists are saying.
To above foregoing statement one is willing as well to quote from an article by Ustaz Yasir Saeed Arman the deputy head of SPLM-N Agar in the Sudan Tribune Cyber Journal entitled Sudan peace talks are entering crucial final stages says Arman. Here I would like to refer to some of the relevant paragraphs of it and quote some of its subdivisions in non-violating brevity.https://sudantribune.com/spip.php?article69028• Sudanese peace talks are entering crucial final stages, says Arman.One would like at this unique moment to congratulate the South Sudan rivals made up of President Salva Kiir Mayardit President of South Sudan and Dr Riek Machar for striking unity deal and one should not miss this opportunity to congratulate the voice of reason for the peace, stability and welfare of the brotherly people in southern Sudan.
South Sudan rivals strike a power-sharing dealhttps://www.bbc.co.uk/news/topics/c302m85q54lt/south-sudanAt this important juncture in the history of Sudan devoid of the rule of the Global Muslim Brotherhood Movement (MBM) gang, the Khartoum branch, we are pleased to quote some extracts from other writers, including Ustaz Yasir Said Arman the Sudanese politician and a leading figure in the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North Agar, who says that peace will contribute to the dismantling of the NCP state and will build a new security and military sector in the New Sudan. In addition to the foregoing, Ustaz Yassir Arman reiterated the importance of the following important slogans:*Peace will contribute to the dismantling of the NCP and will build a new security and military sector*Peace is the gateway to resolving the current political crises.* The peace agreement is an opportunity to correct the mistakes of the transition ** The partnership should include the army and the Rapid Support Forces ** Lack of coordination between the two movements harms the two regions and the revolution.* We are on the verge of signing a peace agreement ** We call to honour the first team, Fathi Ahmed Ali ** The peace of South Sudan will advance the peace of Sudan ** Experiences of armed struggle must be reconsidered ** New Orbits: Juba (Sunday, February 23) *Here the reader will be able to read through the following English translated version of an important part of the article by Ustaz Yassir Arman:* New orbits: Juba (Sunday, February 23 2020) *
In a special statement to the New Orbits Newspaper (the mouthpiece of the new forces of Sudan and the margin) issued by the popular movement, Ustaz Yasser Arman, head of the negotiating delegation, said: The solution to the current political crises and the production of a new project, it is better to take place through peace as a main entrance and peace is the gateway available to solve this Crises, adding that peace can solve key issues and can rearrange the papers of the current political scene and correct many of the mistakes that accompanied the transition process after the revolution, calling on everyone to work on producing a new project through the peace gateway and to prevent Sudan from collapsing because if it collapses It will collapse over all of our heads, including those dreaming of establishing ethnic mini-states, that Sudan can no longer tolerate conflicts, but rather positive competition, that the forces of change and revolution must reach a productive partnership that does not exclude the regular forces (army and rapid support). In this partnership the way out Adding ” We must be frank with our people and the forces of the revolution and the resistance committees until we reach the ports of the new project, and he stressed that the continued marginalization of wide powers of Sudanese and Sudanese, especially in the countryside, will not produce a new country or stability and that the marginalized will stop in the circle of protest without contributing to solutions and production of the new project It marginalizes marginalization and does not work to remove it. Those who call for the dismantling of Sudan and then rebuilding it are contributing and they must visit Libya, Iraq and Somalia. Peace provides a rare opportunity. We work to restore the productive face of the countryside by eliminating the costly rural wars as well as tackling resolving historical issues facing Sudan.
We must all work to give the forces of the armed struggle a strategic way out to gradually transform into active political forces for the construction of Sudan. The development in social media and the revolutionary movement in our region and the role of peaceful action in the December revolution required the reconsideration of the armed struggle that depends on long-term rural wars And expensive in its human cost, which in its vast majority did not build democratic systems, and we must in the popular movement to work for a second birth to see the new Sudan, address the shortcomings and failures that are necessary for our experience and strive to establish a Sudanese union between two independent countries, the two countries of Sudan Not south.
The division of the popular movement and the lack of coordination in the negotiating positions between the two parties are harmful to the two regions first and Sudan second, and we are ready for unity and coordination, and we will proceed with the peace project without hesitation.
On the progress of the peace process hosted by the capital of the Republic of South Sudan (Juba), Ustaz Yasser Arman said, “The negotiations are now entering decisive and final stages and we in the popular movement and the Sudanese Revolutionary Front are ready to reach a final peace agreement by resolving the outstanding issues and they can be resolved,” and added, The agreement of the parties of the Republic of South Sudan and the swearing-in of the Vice-Presidents is also a new impetus and a positive factor that creates an appropriate regional climate, especially since negotiations on the peace process for Sudan are taking place in Juba, and he praised the difficult and historic decisions taken by the President of the Republic of South Sudan, Lieutenant-General Salva Kiir Mayar. At acceptance d. Riak referred to it, describing it as a cause for reflection to make concessions in order to end the war and achieve a comprehensive and just peace.
On the meeting with the al-Burhan, Ustaz Yasser Arman said, “Yesterday, we met with the President of the Transitional Sovereignty Council, Lieutenant General Abdel Fattah Al-Burhan, and we had the meeting in a positive atmosphere and a good atmosphere, that both al-Burhan and General Hamidti showed a clear desire to reach a final peace agreement.” He added: We also ask the government to send a number of Ministers in the crucial stages of negotiations because their absence is not beneficial to the negotiation process, and we hope that the reason for their failure to attend is for good reasons.
On the importance of signing the peace agreement, Ustaz Arman said, “We believe that the peace agreement will contribute to the dismantling of the NCP state and its regime, and will build a new security sector with new military doctrine and will contribute to the reform of the economy and foreign relations.” Yasser Arman welcomed the current dialogue between the Sudanese Revolutionary Front and the Forces for Declaration of Freedom and Change (FFC) and called for the establishment of a partnership between all the forces of the Revolution and change to make the transitional period succeed and reach a democratic system.http://www.sudanile.com/index.php/%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A3%D8%AE%D8%A8%D8%A7%D8%B1/122933-%D8%B9%D8%B1%D9%85%D8%A7%D9%86-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B3%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%85-%D8%B3%D9%8A%D8%B3%D8%A7%D9%87%D9%85-%D9%81%D9%8A-%D8%AA%D9%81%D9%83%D9%8A%D9%83-%D8%AF%D9%88%D9%84%D8%A9-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%85%D8%A4%D8%AA%D9%85%D8%B1-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%88%D8%B7%D9%86%D9%8A-%D9%88%D8%B3%D9%8A%D8%A8%D9%86%D9%8A-%D9%82%D8%B7%D8%A7%D8%B9-%D8%A7%D9%85%D9%86%D9%8A-%D9%88%D8%B9%D8%B3%D9%83%D8%B1%D9%8A-%D8%AC%D8%AF%D9%8A%D8%AF-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B4%D8%B1%D8%A7%D9%83%D8%A9-%D9%8A%D8%AC%D8%A8-%D8%A7%D9%86-%D8%AA%D8%B6%D9%85-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AC%D9%8A%D8%B4-%D9%88%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AF%D8%B9%D9%85-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B3%D8%B1%D9%8A%D8%B9-%D8%B9%D8%AF%D9%85-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AA%D9%86%D8%B3%D9%8A%D9%82-%D8%A8%D9%8A%D9%86-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AD%D8%B1%D9%83%D8%AA%D9%8A%D9%86-%D9%8A%D8%B6%D8%B1-%D8%A8%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%85%D9%86%D8%B7%D9%82%D8%AA%D9%8A%D9%86-%D9%88%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AB%D9%88%D8%B1%D8%A9The word Peace is mentioned in the glorious Qur’an 7 times and more importantly is that the Word “Salam” in Arabic which means Peace is among the 99 Names of God Almighty (Allah, SWT), According to a hadith, there are at least 99 Names of Allah, known as the ?asm??u ll?hi l-?usn? or the Beautiful Names of Allah and The names are also called 99 Attributes of Allah.https://www.google.com/search?q=the+99+Names+of+God+Almighty+(Allah%2C+SWT)%2C&oq=the+99+Names+of+God+Almighty+(Allah%2C+SWT)%2C&aqs=chrome..69i57j33l2.1292j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8
Thus, Peace is a blessing and a way for a person to be assured of the disappearance of fear and a guarantee of preventing hunger. This has been mentioned in Surat Quraish No. 106 in the Noble Qur’an in verse No. 4, which means by Translation of the Text: “He who has Fed them against Hunger and has made them Safe from Fear.” This is a Great truth of God.Dalai Lama, who was born as Lhamo Thondup; the 14th Dalai Lama is the current Dalai Lama. Dalai Lamas are important monks of the Gelug School, the newest school of Tibetan Buddhism, which was formally headed by the Ganden Tripas, have been quoted as saying: “World Peace Begins with Inner Peace”!https://www.google.com/search?q=quotes+about+peace&sxsrf=ALeKk03UUZVt5McLcWDLctdeDhdS5nB99Q:1582926270692&tbm=isch&source=iu&ictx=1&fir=zPa6TR9rno32XM%253A%252CIH_1mN0vi9OCGM%252C_&vet=1&usg=AI4_-kSlVeA7sRe1HdFueXWmHuKdpGzUNA&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwicvMfwm_XnAhULQ8AKHXpWDKsQ_h0wA3oECAoQCg#imgrc=2tGbHU6BlQqbRMMaha Ghosananda who was a highly Revered Cambodian Buddhist monk in the Theravada tradition, who served as the Patriarch of Cambodian Buddhism during the Khmer Rouge period and post-communist transition period of Cambodian history and His Pali monastic name, ‘Mah? Ghos?nanda’, which means “great joyful proclaimer “has been quoted as saying: “When You Make Peace with Yourself, You make Peace with the World”. https://www.google.com/search?q=quotes+about+peace&sxsrf=ALeKk03UUZVt5McLcWDLctdeDhdS5nB99Q:1582926270692&tbm=isch&source=iu&ictx=1&fir=zPa6TR9rno32XM%253A%252CIH_1mN0vi9OCGM%252C_&vet=1&usg=AI4_-kSlVeA7sRe1HdFueXWmHuKdpGzUNA&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwicvMfwm_XnAhULQ8AKHXpWDKsQ_h0wA3oECAoQCg#imgrc=2tGbHU6BlQqbRM&imgdii=nXdaIgTuOTv7gM
The Renowned Tunisian Poet Abu al-Qasim al-Shabi has been quoted as saying the following Verses of Poetry about Peace:“Peace is true, false *** and justice is the philosophy of the hidden flameThere is no justice unless the forces are tied *** and terrorism collides with terrorism. ”Reference is the Poetry Book of the Poet Abu al-Qasim al-Shabi, the Songs of Lifehttps://www.goodreads.com/quotes/195357
Dr Mahmoud A. Suleiman is an author, columnist and a blogger. His blog is http://thussudan.wordpress.com/
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Copyright @ 2024 | Sudan Tribune. All rights reserved.

Title: Sudanese want comprehensive sustainable peace - Sudan Tribune
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
By Mahmoud A. Suleiman
The December 19th 2018 Glorious Revolutionary People of Sudan have great hope fraught with some caution about what is going on in the platform of the City of Juba, the Capital of the Sisterly Republic of South Sudan for the Peace Negotiations. At the same time, the Sudanese people value some negotiation outcomes between the Armed Struggle Forces (ASF) and Members of the Transitional Sovereign Council (TSC). And the caution that was mentioned stems from the past experiences and outputs of previous negotiations, starting with the Cities of N’Djamena and Abéché in Chad, then Abuja, the Capital of Nigeria, followed by the City of Tripoli, the Capital of Libya, The seat of the late Leader Muammar Gaddafi, may God have mercy on him, and finally, to the City of Doha, the Capital of the Gulf State of Qatar, all of which unfortunately did not come With any tangible well-negotiated Comprehensive Sustainable Peace Agreements that address and learn the Roots of the Conflicts and the Crises that resulted from their pains, and the final result is what the Darfur Region and its civilian Sudanese Citizens have been suffering Until Today and Since the outbreak of the armed Revolution and Darfur rebels took up to arms in 2002 in response to and when the Arrogant Warmonger, the then Génocidaire Omer Hassan Ahmed al-Bashir, declared that his Islamist Regime Would Neither listen nor Negotiate with the ones who did not currying arms, as He had come to Power into Sudan through the Barrel of the Gun – aka Military coup d’état.
At this pivotal juncture, we will now return to evaluating some attitudes towards Peace in Sudan, which has suffered from wars and whose people aspire for peace to make carrying arms something of the past Dark days that were full of pessimism and woes. Now the slogan must be peace first and foremost and at all the time, everywhere, in a Free and Just Democratic Sudan. This is more so especially there is power and desire to bring peace. Peace is a blessing and under this, we can assuredly say the following:A reassuring Circular from Mohamed Hassan Osman al-Taishi the member of the Transitional Sovereignty Council on the appointment of Governors and he indicated that by saying: “Some media outlets circulated inaccurate information; stating that the order to appoint governors is more important than the ongoing Peace process and that Peace negotiations with the Sudanese Revolutionary Front (SRF) have failed; No such Statement or assertion was issued in this sense; Peace is imperative and necessary, and We have so far reached nearly eighty per cent; that is a step that the Government and its Partners take in the direction of Preserving what has been Accomplished and completing what remains.” Al-Taishi went on indicating that political reality cannot be changed because the government has reached agreement with the armed struggle forces on the Peace Agreement that we work and hope to reach soon will prevail over the existing political reality; and that nothing is more important at the present time than the Completion of the file of a Just and Comprehensive Peace. By Mohamed Hassan Othman al-Taishi  the official spokesman for the negotiating government delegation Juba, 28 February 2020
A joint committee has been formed between the Transitional Government and the Sudanese Revolutionary Front (SRF) to discuss the matter of governors; the time period granted to the committee and stipulated in the agreement has passed without reaching an agreement to settle the matter as the Sudanese Revolutionary Front remains attached to its opinion and is a valued opinion, and the Transitional Government has spoken of the urgent need to fill the administrative void in the States with Civilian rulers/Governors who perform their duties towards the requirements of the daily lives of citizens.
The government does not talk about appointing governors to talk about assigning governors until a final peace agreement is signed;
*	Our reservation remains at this time about appointing state governors before achieving peace, and in addition to that, we reject those voices that are far from the goals of achieving Peace and raising their screams calling for what they describe it  “Early Elections” and those who call for Early General Elections in all  Regions of Sudan at this time are nothing but the group of the Old Defunct Political Vessels Who Played Malicious Roles Since the Independence of Sudan 64 Years ago to repeat the dirty games of Conspiring with the Military Junta to create a Military Coup after a Coup whenever they felt they were about to lose grip of power to rule Sudan through Democratic system of Governance. Those Sudanese political party leaders their only concern was either their Permanent and Forever Presence in Power of Sudan or the flood! The is usually followed by a Junta to carry out military coups when it fails to manage Sudan’s rule, and it is usually a  military junta affiliated to a certain  Political Party to carry out a military coup behind every failed party government. Thus, Sudan sadly witnessed and suffered so many military Junta Rules since the dawn of independence from the Anglo-Egyptian Condominium amounting approximately to Seven main Military Coups and let alone to the plethora of short-lived coup attempts. The Sudanese people continued to suffer from dictatorship and the difficulties of living under the rule of military coups; the main Military Coups under which the people of Sudan suffered are:1)	The 17 November 1958 military coup led by General Ibrahim Abboud2)	The 1969 Sudanese coup d’etat was a successful coup, led by Col. Gaafar Nimeiry, against the government of President Ismail al-Azhari. The coup signalled the end of Sudan’s second democratic era and saw the beginning of Nimeiry’s 16-year rule3)	The 1971 Sudanese coup d’état was a short-lived communist-backed coup, led by Major Hashem al Atta, against the government of President Gaafar Nimeiry.4)	The 1977 Sudanese Juba coup d’état attempt was an unsuccessful coup, led by 12 Air Force members who had previously been members of Anyanya. The exact specifications of the coup attempt vary, although tend to focus on a failed attempt by the group to take the airport5)	The 1985 Sudanese coup d’état was a military coup that occurred in Sudan on 6 April 1985. The coup was staged by a group of military officers and led by the Defense Minister and Armed Forces Commander-in-Chief, Field Marshal Abdel Rahman Swar al-Dahab, against the government of President Gaafar Nimeiry6)	The 1989 Sudanese coup d’état was a military coup that occurred in Sudan on 30 June 1989 against the democratically-elected government of Prime Minister Sadiq al-Mahdi and President Ahmed al-Mirghani. The coup was led by military officer Omar al-Bashir who took power in its aftermath and would go on to rule the country for the next 30 years until he was overthrown in 2019.7)	The 1990 Sudanese coup d’état attempt was a bloodless coup attempt which took place in Sudan on 23 April 1990.[1][2] Reportedly orchestrated by two retired Armed Forces officers, Major General Abdul Gadir al Kadaru and Brigadier Mohamed Osman Karrar, and planned by junior officers loyal to them, the coup attempt was directed against the RCCNS, the ruling military junta led by Lieutenant General Omar al-Bashir (who himself took power in the 1989 coup d’état).8)	On the morning of 11 April 2019, Sudanese dictator Omar al-Bashir was removed from power by the Sudanese Armed Forces amid ongoing protests after holding the office for nearly 30 yearshttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Military_coups_in_Sudan
*	To those staunchly affiliated to the political parties, we say to them, No, then no to a so-called General Early Elections.*	Peace is the Gateway to Solving the current Political Crises in Sudan
* The Peace agreement is an opportunity to the correct some of the probable unintended mistakes of the Transitional Period.* We are on the Verge of Signing Various Peace Agreements in the post-December 19th 2018 Glorious Revolution in Sudan.Peace Negotiations in the city of Juba, the capital of the Republic of South Sudan, on its multiple tracks, remain at the admiration and confidence of the Sudanese people who aspire to stability and a decent life in the shadow of the three slogans of the 19th December 2018 Glorious Popular Revolution of freedom, peace and justice.Peace is indivisible, given the Victories achieved in Juba that included the Goodwill Agreement for the release of some Prisoners of War (POW) belonging to the Sudanese Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) from the Huda Prison and other Prisons and the signing of the agreement for the share of the Negotiations on the path of the region of Darfur in the western Sudan, which took place in the City of Juba, the capital of the Republic of South Sudan, the location of the negotiations with respect to The Darfur Region’s Share at the division of the Government Sudan jobs, in addition to our heartfelt happiness that our brothers in the Republic of South Sudan reaching a consensus and resolving the disputes and their Sublimation above differences in opting for Peace and the well-being of their fellow citizens along with their conclusion by paying off the Peace dues and the agreement of each of them to accept the state positions offered; thus making us in Sudan very happy. Our happiness has been doubled by the release of the Prisoners of Conscience or the Prisoners of War (POWs) which is one of the most important elements of Peace after the prolonged suffering caused by the absurd Wars of attrition that has been waged for Seventeen odd years by the warmonger Omer Hassan Ahmed al-Bashir who committed the most heinous crimes which included genocide against civilian Sudanese citizens in the Darfur region. This Omer al-Bashir was supported by the elements in the National Congress Party (NCP) regime and shared him in committing the crimes against humanity, war crimes and crimes of genocide and being indicted by the International Criminal Court (ICC) at The Hague in the Netherlands since the year 2009 and remained fugitive. His deplorable entourage of Abdelrahim Mohammed Hussein, Ahmed Muhammed Haroun, Ali Osman Mohammed Taha and Ali Muhammad Ali Abd-Al-Rahman, commonly known as Ali Kushayb, is a senior Janjaweed commander supporting the Sudanese government against Darfur rebel groups, and as of June 2019, is sought under an arrest warrant by the International Criminal Court (ICC) are as well involved in committing the foregoing heinous crimes against humanity, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and genocide and remain at large.It is a known documented fact that around two million people are currently displaced inside Sudan, as (IDPs) while more than 650,000 Sudanese refugees live in neighbouring countries – including Chad and South Sudan. Some 300,000 refugees from the Darfur region are currently living in 12 UNHCR and government-run camps in Eastern Chad.https://www.google.com/search?q=number+of+the+internally+displaced+and+refugees+from+darfur&oq=number+of+the+internally+displaced+and+refugees+from+darfur&aqs=chrome..69i57j33l2.38120j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8Eric Reeves reporting on the size of Darfurian refugees in Eastern Chad said: “Darfur Refugees in Eastern Chad: The Most Invisible Casualties of the Darfur Genocide “Hundreds of thousands of African/non-Arab Darfuris remain trapped as refugees in twelve main camps in eastern Chad, unable to return because of the massive insecurity that continues to prevail in most of Darfur—insecurity that will only increase with the severe reductions in the UN/African Union “hybrid” Mission in Darfur (UNAMID). On June 30, 2017, the UN Security Council renewed the mandate for UNAMID, but—at Khartoum’s behest—reduced the military presence in Darfur by 44 per cent and the police presence by more than 30 per cent”. https://sudanreeves.org/2017/08/08/darfur-refugees-in-eastern-chad-the-most-invisible-casualties-of-the-darfur-genocide/
Hats Off for the ongoing achievements of the Juba Platform for Peace in Sudan.Meaning of Hats off to (someone or something)A phrase used to express congratulations to someone or something. (The removal of one’s hat is typically a gesture of respect.) Hats off to you for getting the big promotion! See also: hat, off. https://www.google.com/search?q=hats+off+meaning&oq=Hats+Off&aqs=chrome.7.0l8.25869j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8This article besides its timeliness, it also indicates and shows this author’s obsession with Peace; that is understandable as Peace represents the safety gate for livelihood for any humankind on the globe.
This is a Review and/or a political exploratory article that comes against a backdrop of browsing the article written by Mohammed Nour Oudo under the title: “Peace is coming from Juba, which has been embracing the negotiations of the Sudanese factions since late last year. Peace is beginning to appear waving positive statements by the delegations participating in the negotiations. These positive statements issued every day by the leaders of the Armed Struggle Movements, the delegation of the Transitional Government, the leaders of the Sudanese political parties and the mediation committee in the state of South Sudan have entered reassurance in the hearts of the Sudanese people, the Sudanese street is optimistic about achieving peace soon.
ابشروا  يا شعب السوداني منبر جوبا سيحقق السلام الشامل.

Go ahead, Sudanese people, the platform of Juba will achieve a comprehensive peace Ustaz Mohamed Nour Oudo is among the permanent and active columnists who are staunchly adhered to the cause of the Sudanese Darfurians and belongs to the membership the Sudanese Justice and Equality Movement (JEM). Ustaz Mohamed Nour Oudo indicates with confidence that Peace is coming from Juba, which has been embracing the negotiations of the Sudanese factions since late last year. Peace is beginning to appear waving positive statements by the delegations participating in the negotiations. These positive statements issued every day by the leaders of the Armed Struggle Movements (ASM), the delegation of the Transitional Government (TG), the leaders of the Sudanese Political Parties and the Mediation Committee in the Republic of South Sudan. Moreover, he says that the Peace Negotiations have entered reassurance into the Hearts of the Sudanese People who have been longing for a comprehensive sustainable Peace that addresses the roots of the chronic Sudanese crises that have been delaying the progress of the country since the Dawn of Independence on January 1, 1956, from the Anglo-Egyptian Condominium.
He reiterates that Comprehensive peace is the dream of every Sudanese citizen after living through the wars that led to displacement, migration into the nowhere around the globe, seeking asylum since the colonizer’s exit, and after the fall of the National Congress Party (NCP) regime – AKA Rescue Government- that was trading in the Sudanese problem through false negotiations and fragile agreements. That is why we find the determination and seriousness of the leaders of the Armed Struggle Movements (ASM) and the Transitional Government led by the Prime Minister, Dr Abdalla Hamdok to reach a Comprehensive Peace that brings back Sudan to the forefront of countries of the World after it has been dwarfed for thirty years by the defunct National Islamic Front (NIF) /National Congress Party (NCP) regime led by the genocidal criminal Omer Hassan Ahmed al-Bashir.
The Juba platform is not a platform for negotiations for a job or partnership of a dictatorial government that came to power with a military coup. Rather, it is a platform for solving the Sudanese problem by addressing the root causes of the problem and dealing with them permanently and laying the foundations for the management of Sudan’s rule in the future. Lieutenant General Salva Kiir Mayardit and his government salute the mediation team, delegates from the international community and peace partners for their valuable efforts.
The gathering of the people of Sudan in their second homeland, the state of South Sudan, in a round table is not just for meetings between different parties politically, and they disperse without reaching a result or peace as some think, but to discuss solving the Sudanese problem in a transparent, sincere dialogue, earnestly, and with determination, putting the interest of the homeland in the eyes of their eyes.The Sudanese people have benefited, and the negotiating parties in Juba have benefited from past experiences from previous negotiations and agreements that did not bring peace, stability, or security, so they do not want to repeat the past. Peace is everyone’s goal.
It is Good news for the Sudanese people who yearn for a decent life in peace which is inevitably coming soon.There is no war in Sudan after the platform in Juba from where Peace will prevail throughout Sudan, and Sudan will enjoy stability, security and safety and prosperity; optimists are saying.
To above foregoing statement one is willing as well to quote from an article by Ustaz Yasir Saeed Arman the deputy head of SPLM-N Agar in the Sudan Tribune Cyber Journal entitled Sudan peace talks are entering crucial final stages says Arman. Here I would like to refer to some of the relevant paragraphs of it and quote some of its subdivisions in non-violating brevity.https://sudantribune.com/spip.php?article69028• Sudanese peace talks are entering crucial final stages, says Arman.One would like at this unique moment to congratulate the South Sudan rivals made up of President Salva Kiir Mayardit President of South Sudan and Dr Riek Machar for striking unity deal and one should not miss this opportunity to congratulate the voice of reason for the peace, stability and welfare of the brotherly people in southern Sudan.
South Sudan rivals strike a power-sharing dealhttps://www.bbc.co.uk/news/topics/c302m85q54lt/south-sudanAt this important juncture in the history of Sudan devoid of the rule of the Global Muslim Brotherhood Movement (MBM) gang, the Khartoum branch, we are pleased to quote some extracts from other writers, including Ustaz Yasir Said Arman the Sudanese politician and a leading figure in the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement-North Agar, who says that peace will contribute to the dismantling of the NCP state and will build a new security and military sector in the New Sudan. In addition to the foregoing, Ustaz Yassir Arman reiterated the importance of the following important slogans:*Peace will contribute to the dismantling of the NCP and will build a new security and military sector*Peace is the gateway to resolving the current political crises.* The peace agreement is an opportunity to correct the mistakes of the transition ** The partnership should include the army and the Rapid Support Forces ** Lack of coordination between the two movements harms the two regions and the revolution.* We are on the verge of signing a peace agreement ** We call to honour the first team, Fathi Ahmed Ali ** The peace of South Sudan will advance the peace of Sudan ** Experiences of armed struggle must be reconsidered ** New Orbits: Juba (Sunday, February 23) *Here the reader will be able to read through the following English translated version of an important part of the article by Ustaz Yassir Arman:* New orbits: Juba (Sunday, February 23 2020) *
In a special statement to the New Orbits Newspaper (the mouthpiece of the new forces of Sudan and the margin) issued by the popular movement, Ustaz Yasser Arman, head of the negotiating delegation, said: The solution to the current political crises and the production of a new project, it is better to take place through peace as a main entrance and peace is the gateway available to solve this Crises, adding that peace can solve key issues and can rearrange the papers of the current political scene and correct many of the mistakes that accompanied the transition process after the revolution, calling on everyone to work on producing a new project through the peace gateway and to prevent Sudan from collapsing because if it collapses It will collapse over all of our heads, including those dreaming of establishing ethnic mini-states, that Sudan can no longer tolerate conflicts, but rather positive competition, that the forces of change and revolution must reach a productive partnership that does not exclude the regular forces (army and rapid support). In this partnership the way out Adding ” We must be frank with our people and the forces of the revolution and the resistance committees until we reach the ports of the new project, and he stressed that the continued marginalization of wide powers of Sudanese and Sudanese, especially in the countryside, will not produce a new country or stability and that the marginalized will stop in the circle of protest without contributing to solutions and production of the new project It marginalizes marginalization and does not work to remove it. Those who call for the dismantling of Sudan and then rebuilding it are contributing and they must visit Libya, Iraq and Somalia. Peace provides a rare opportunity. We work to restore the productive face of the countryside by eliminating the costly rural wars as well as tackling resolving historical issues facing Sudan.
We must all work to give the forces of the armed struggle a strategic way out to gradually transform into active political forces for the construction of Sudan. The development in social media and the revolutionary movement in our region and the role of peaceful action in the December revolution required the reconsideration of the armed struggle that depends on long-term rural wars And expensive in its human cost, which in its vast majority did not build democratic systems, and we must in the popular movement to work for a second birth to see the new Sudan, address the shortcomings and failures that are necessary for our experience and strive to establish a Sudanese union between two independent countries, the two countries of Sudan Not south.
The division of the popular movement and the lack of coordination in the negotiating positions between the two parties are harmful to the two regions first and Sudan second, and we are ready for unity and coordination, and we will proceed with the peace project without hesitation.
On the progress of the peace process hosted by the capital of the Republic of South Sudan (Juba), Ustaz Yasser Arman said, “The negotiations are now entering decisive and final stages and we in the popular movement and the Sudanese Revolutionary Front are ready to reach a final peace agreement by resolving the outstanding issues and they can be resolved,” and added, The agreement of the parties of the Republic of South Sudan and the swearing-in of the Vice-Presidents is also a new impetus and a positive factor that creates an appropriate regional climate, especially since negotiations on the peace process for Sudan are taking place in Juba, and he praised the difficult and historic decisions taken by the President of the Republic of South Sudan, Lieutenant-General Salva Kiir Mayar. At acceptance d. Riak referred to it, describing it as a cause for reflection to make concessions in order to end the war and achieve a comprehensive and just peace.
On the meeting with the al-Burhan, Ustaz Yasser Arman said, “Yesterday, we met with the President of the Transitional Sovereignty Council, Lieutenant General Abdel Fattah Al-Burhan, and we had the meeting in a positive atmosphere and a good atmosphere, that both al-Burhan and General Hamidti showed a clear desire to reach a final peace agreement.” He added: We also ask the government to send a number of Ministers in the crucial stages of negotiations because their absence is not beneficial to the negotiation process, and we hope that the reason for their failure to attend is for good reasons.
On the importance of signing the peace agreement, Ustaz Arman said, “We believe that the peace agreement will contribute to the dismantling of the NCP state and its regime, and will build a new security sector with new military doctrine and will contribute to the reform of the economy and foreign relations.” Yasser Arman welcomed the current dialogue between the Sudanese Revolutionary Front and the Forces for Declaration of Freedom and Change (FFC) and called for the establishment of a partnership between all the forces of the Revolution and change to make the transitional period succeed and reach a democratic system.http://www.sudanile.com/index.php/%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A3%D8%AE%D8%A8%D8%A7%D8%B1/122933-%D8%B9%D8%B1%D9%85%D8%A7%D9%86-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B3%D9%84%D8%A7%D9%85-%D8%B3%D9%8A%D8%B3%D8%A7%D9%87%D9%85-%D9%81%D9%8A-%D8%AA%D9%81%D9%83%D9%8A%D9%83-%D8%AF%D9%88%D9%84%D8%A9-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%85%D8%A4%D8%AA%D9%85%D8%B1-%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%88%D8%B7%D9%86%D9%8A-%D9%88%D8%B3%D9%8A%D8%A8%D9%86%D9%8A-%D9%82%D8%B7%D8%A7%D8%B9-%D8%A7%D9%85%D9%86%D9%8A-%D9%88%D8%B9%D8%B3%D9%83%D8%B1%D9%8A-%D8%AC%D8%AF%D9%8A%D8%AF-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B4%D8%B1%D8%A7%D9%83%D8%A9-%D9%8A%D8%AC%D8%A8-%D8%A7%D9%86-%D8%AA%D8%B6%D9%85-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AC%D9%8A%D8%B4-%D9%88%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AF%D8%B9%D9%85-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%B3%D8%B1%D9%8A%D8%B9-%D8%B9%D8%AF%D9%85-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AA%D9%86%D8%B3%D9%8A%D9%82-%D8%A8%D9%8A%D9%86-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AD%D8%B1%D9%83%D8%AA%D9%8A%D9%86-%D9%8A%D8%B6%D8%B1-%D8%A8%D8%A7%D9%84%D9%85%D9%86%D8%B7%D9%82%D8%AA%D9%8A%D9%86-%D9%88%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%AB%D9%88%D8%B1%D8%A9The word Peace is mentioned in the glorious Qur’an 7 times and more importantly is that the Word “Salam” in Arabic which means Peace is among the 99 Names of God Almighty (Allah, SWT), According to a hadith, there are at least 99 Names of Allah, known as the ?asm??u ll?hi l-?usn? or the Beautiful Names of Allah and The names are also called 99 Attributes of Allah.https://www.google.com/search?q=the+99+Names+of+God+Almighty+(Allah%2C+SWT)%2C&oq=the+99+Names+of+God+Almighty+(Allah%2C+SWT)%2C&aqs=chrome..69i57j33l2.1292j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8
Thus, Peace is a blessing and a way for a person to be assured of the disappearance of fear and a guarantee of preventing hunger. This has been mentioned in Surat Quraish No. 106 in the Noble Qur’an in verse No. 4, which means by Translation of the Text: “He who has Fed them against Hunger and has made them Safe from Fear.” This is a Great truth of God.Dalai Lama, who was born as Lhamo Thondup; the 14th Dalai Lama is the current Dalai Lama. Dalai Lamas are important monks of the Gelug School, the newest school of Tibetan Buddhism, which was formally headed by the Ganden Tripas, have been quoted as saying: “World Peace Begins with Inner Peace”!https://www.google.com/search?q=quotes+about+peace&sxsrf=ALeKk03UUZVt5McLcWDLctdeDhdS5nB99Q:1582926270692&tbm=isch&source=iu&ictx=1&fir=zPa6TR9rno32XM%253A%252CIH_1mN0vi9OCGM%252C_&vet=1&usg=AI4_-kSlVeA7sRe1HdFueXWmHuKdpGzUNA&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwicvMfwm_XnAhULQ8AKHXpWDKsQ_h0wA3oECAoQCg#imgrc=2tGbHU6BlQqbRMMaha Ghosananda who was a highly Revered Cambodian Buddhist monk in the Theravada tradition, who served as the Patriarch of Cambodian Buddhism during the Khmer Rouge period and post-communist transition period of Cambodian history and His Pali monastic name, ‘Mah? Ghos?nanda’, which means “great joyful proclaimer “has been quoted as saying: “When You Make Peace with Yourself, You make Peace with the World”. https://www.google.com/search?q=quotes+about+peace&sxsrf=ALeKk03UUZVt5McLcWDLctdeDhdS5nB99Q:1582926270692&tbm=isch&source=iu&ictx=1&fir=zPa6TR9rno32XM%253A%252CIH_1mN0vi9OCGM%252C_&vet=1&usg=AI4_-kSlVeA7sRe1HdFueXWmHuKdpGzUNA&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwicvMfwm_XnAhULQ8AKHXpWDKsQ_h0wA3oECAoQCg#imgrc=2tGbHU6BlQqbRM&imgdii=nXdaIgTuOTv7gM
The Renowned Tunisian Poet Abu al-Qasim al-Shabi has been quoted as saying the following Verses of Poetry about Peace:“Peace is true, false *** and justice is the philosophy of the hidden flameThere is no justice unless the forces are tied *** and terrorism collides with terrorism. ”Reference is the Poetry Book of the Poet Abu al-Qasim al-Shabi, the Songs of Lifehttps://www.goodreads.com/quotes/195357
Dr Mahmoud A. Suleiman is an author, columnist and a blogger. His blog is http://thussudan.wordpress.com/
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Copyright @ 2024 | Sudan Tribune. All rights reserved.

Title: Stop harassing Swedish media, Reporters Without Borders tells China | Hong Kong Free Press HKFP
Hong Kong Free Press HKFP
Hong Kong news, breaking updates – 100% Independent, impartial, non-profit
Media rights watchdog Reporters Without Borders (RSF) on Monday urged China’s embassy in Stockholm to stop harassing Swedish journalists, accusing Beijing of trying to impose censorship outside its borders.
RSF intervened following the latest in a series of statements by the Chinese embassy there, this time attacking the news website of Sweden’s public broadcaster SVT.
China’s ambassador to Sweden, Gui Congyou, “has embarked on a ‘truth’ crusade against the country’s media since taking office in August 2017”, RSF said in its statement.
Since July 2018, the embassy has denounced multiple Swedish news outlets, including the country’s two main national dailies Dagens Nyheter and Svenska Dagbladet and the news agency TT.
Regional dailies Upsala Nya Tidning and Nya Wermlands-Tidningen, and public sector weekly Dagens Samhalle have also come in for criticism.
“Diplomatic missions have no say in the editorial content of media in their host country,” Erik Halkjaer, the head of RSF Sweden said.
The embassy’s latest statement criticised the SVT website for publishing an opinion piece written by a representative to the Taipei mission on February 27, calling for support for Taiwanese democracy amid threats from China.
“But why is he so harsh?” This is a question that Swedish journalists keep asking in reference to Chinese ambassador to Sweden, Gui Congyou, who has embarked on a “truth” crusade against the country’s media sincetaking officein August 2017. The ambassador, who developed his career between the Chinese Embassy in Russia and the Department of European-Central Asian Affairs of the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, seems to have trouble understanding that in Sweden, a country ranked second in theRSF’s2018 World Press Freedom Index, journalists are not subject to censorship.
On the embassy’s website, the ambassador recently posted a long, unsignedattackagainst SVT Nyheter, a major Swedish news outlet. The diplomat castigates the site for giving a platform to David Liao, Representative to the Taipei Mission in Sweden, on February 27. Liao published anopinion piececalling support for Taiwanese democracy against Chinese threat. According to Gui Congyou, the article “challenges the one China principle” and  “amounts to serious political provocation.” Beijing is very aggressive in claiming sovereignty over the island of Taiwan, despite it having an independent government since 1949.
“Diplomatic missions have no say in the editorial content of media in their host country,” says Erik Halkjaer, the president of Reporters Without Borders (RSF) Sweden. Cédric Alviani, the head ofRSFEast Asia bureau, considers that these attacks “reveal the unrestrained attitude with which Beijing is now trying to impose its censorship outside its borders.”
The attack on SVT Nyheter is indeed not an isolated incident. Since July of 2018, the Chinese Embassy in Stockholm has attacked multiple Swedish news sources, includingDagens Nyheter (DN),Tidningarnas Telegrambyrå (TT),8 Sidor,Upsala Nya Tidning,Dagens Samhälle,Nya Wermlands-Tidningen, andSvenska Dagbladet (SvD).
The ambassador was particularly harsh towardsSwedish journalistJojje Olsson, author of a book on the Swedish publisher Gui Minhai, who was kidnapped in Thailand in 2015 and isstill detainedin China with no scheduled sentencing. Last December, he alsoattackedSwedish journalist and commentator Kurdo Baksi, accusing him of “instigating hatred against China.”
China is the world’s biggest jailers of journalists, withmore than 60currently detained. In the2018 World Press Freedom Indexpublished byRSF, the country rank stagnates at 176th out of 180.
China and Taiwan split after a civil war in 1949, but Beijing still sees the self-ruling island as part of its territory, to be brought back into the fold.
Beijing has stepped up diplomatic pressure on Taiwan since President Tsai Ing-wen took office in 2016, as she has refused to acknowledge its “one China” policy.
Cedric Alviani, the head of RSF’s East Asia bureau, said China’s attacks on Swedish media “reveal the unrestrained attitude with which Beijing is now trying to impose its censorship outside its borders”.
RSF recalled that China is the world’s biggest jailer of journalists, with more than 60 currently detained, while Sweden ranked second in the RSF’s 2018 World Press Freedom Index.
Ties between Sweden and China have been strained in recent years, following the detention of publisher Gui Minhai, a Chinese-born Swede who vanished into Chinese custody in January 2018 under murky circumstances.
China also lodged a diplomatic complaint in September 2018 accusing Swedish police of treating Chinese tourists “brutally” after a family was ejected from a Stockholm hotel.
Following that incident, a Swedish satirical current affairs programme on SVT poked fun at China, prompting Beijing to demand an apology and accusing it of racism.
Support HKFP|Code of Ethics|Error/typo?|Contact Us|Newsletter|Annual & Transparency Report
Agence France-Press (AFP) is "a leading global news agency providing fast, comprehensive and verified coverage of the events shaping our world and of the issues affecting our daily lives." HKFP relies on AFP, and its international bureaus, to cover topics we cannot.Read their Ethics Code here
HKFP is a proud member of:
Unsubscribe at any time. HKFP will never share your details with third parties.
Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again.
Something went wrong. Please refresh the page and/or try again.
Views expressed by opinion writers & advertisers are not necessarily shared by HKFP.
Where to find HKFP:
About HKFP:
HKFP Partnerships:
The Trust Project is a collaboration among news organizations around the world. Its goal is to create strategies that fulfill journalism’s basic pledge: to serve society with a truthful, intelligent and comprehensive account of ideas and events.
HKFP is protected by reCAPTCHA. The Google Privacy Policy & Terms of Service apply.

Title: BERNAMA - Police arrest 12 Filipino, one Malaysian terrorist suspects in Sabah
Please email todigitalsales@bernama.comfor full details about this news.


BERNAMA provides up-to-date authentic and comprehensive news and information which are disseminated via BERNAMA Wires; www.bernama.com; BERNAMA TV on Astro 502, unifi TV 631 and MYTV 121 channels and BERNAMA Radio on FM93.9 (Klang Valley), FM107.5 (Johor Bahru), FM107.9 (Kota Kinabalu) and FM100.9 (Kuching) frequencies.Follow us on social media :Facebook :@bernamaofficial,@bernamatv,@bernamaradioTwitter :@bernama.com,@BernamaTV,@bernamaradioInstagram :@bernamaofficial,@bernamatvofficial,@bernamaradioofficialTikTok :@bernamaofficial
BERNAMA provides up-to-date authentic and comprehensive news and information which are disseminated via BERNAMA Wires; www.bernama.com; BERNAMA TV on Astro 502, unifi TV 631 and MYTV 121 channels and BERNAMA Radio on FM93.9 (Klang Valley), FM107.5 (Johor Bahru), FM107.9 (Kota Kinabalu) and FM100.9 (Kuching) frequencies.Follow us on social media :Facebook :@bernamaofficial,@bernamatv,@bernamaradioTwitter :@bernama.com,@BernamaTV,@bernamaradioInstagram :@bernamaofficial,@bernamatvofficial,@bernamaradioofficialTikTok :@bernamaofficial
BERNAMA, Pertubuhan Berita Nasional Malaysia merupakan Peneraju dalam perkhidmatan berita dan maklumat mempelawa calon warganegara Malaysia yang layak untuk menyertai kami :
Sila layari portal kerjaya BERNAMA dihttps://kerjaya.bernama.comuntuk maklumat lanjut. Permohonan hendaklah dibuat secara atas talian melalui portal kerjaya BERNAMA.
PORTAL KERJAYA BERNAMA
Para Pelanggan Yang Dihormati,
Dimaklumkan bahawa soal selidik ini bertujuan untuk mendapatkan maklum balas pelanggan berhubung tahap pengamalan nilai-nilai murni di jabatan/agensi Kerajaan yang memberikan perkhidmatan kepada tuan/puan.
Berdasarkan pengalaman atau pemerhatian semasa berurusan dengan BERNAMA, sila beri maklum balas kepada pernyataan-pernyataan yang berikut dalam konteks semasa. Kami menghargai maklum balas yang jujur dan rasional daripada anda.
Maklum balas yang diberikan adalah SULIT.
Terima kasih kerana sudi meluangkan masa untuk mengisi soal selidik ini.
Sila klik pautan berikut:
https://insan.jpa.gov.my/survey/agency/f6de54bf-24f2-4858-b445-9ac506487c1c
Wisma BERNAMANo.28 Jalan BERNAMAOff Jalan Tun Razak50400 Kuala LumpurMalaysia
[click here]helpdesk[at]bernama.com

•General•Business•Market•Sports•Lifestyle•Politics•World•Infographics•Videos•Exclusive Press•Archived
•SUKMA 2024•HKHM 2024•Paris 2024 Olympics•Daulat Tuanku•HAWANA 2024•Fokus BERNAMA•Thoughts•Budget 2024•Health•Energy•MAPO•MCMC
•Central•Northern•Southern•East•Sabah•Sarawak
•Corporate Site•Contact Us•BERNAMA Services•Kerjaya@BERNAMA•Quotation / Tender
© 2024 BERNAMA  
      •Disclaimer•Privacy Policy•Security Policy

Title: BERNAMA - Police arrest 12 Filipino, one Malaysian terrorist suspects in Sabah
KUALA LUMPUR, March 18 (Bernama) -- The police have arrested 13 people - 12 Filipinos, one of whom is a woman, and a Malaysian - in Sabah on suspicion of being members of terrorist groups and protecting terrorists in hiding, Inspector-General of Police Tan Sri Mohamad Fuzi Harun said today.
They were rounded up in the Semporna and Tambunan areas in a two-day operation on March 11 and 12 mounted by the Counter-Terrorism Division, Special Branch and the VAT 69 Commando Unit, he said in a statement.
“All of them were arrested on suspicion of being members of one of several terrorist groups, such as the Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG), Maute and Royal Sulu Force (RSF). Some of them are suspected to have given protection to terrorist elements believed to be in hiding in Sabah,” he said.
Elaborating, Mohamad Fuzi said the police arrested five Filipinos and the Malaysian, aged between 40 and 60, in Semporna on March 11.
“Four of them are suspected to have been involved in the Maute terrorist group siege of Marawi City, Philippines, in 2017. They are also suspected to have given protection to Maute terrorist elements and several Middle Eastern nationals believed to be hiding in Sabah,” he said.
He also said that the two others are suspected to be members of the RSF that was involved in the attacks in Lahad Datu and Semporna in 2013.
They are also suspected to have been involved in recruiting new members for RSF by selling membership cards of the group to Filipino nationals residing in Sabah, he said.
Mohamad Fuzi said these two suspects had fled to the southern Philippines after the defeat of the RSF but, in November last year, they sneaked into Semporna to revive the RSF activities in Sabah.
Also on March 11, the police arrested five Filipinos and a Filipina, aged between 23 and 63, in Tambunan, he said.
“One of the suspects, a construction labourer, is suspected to be a member of the ASG that was involved in the attack on Marawi City. The suspect sneaked into Sabah in December last year to escape the Philippine military operations.
“The five others are suspected to have given shelter to ASG and Maute terrorist elements who are still free,” he said.
Mohamad Fuzi said that on March 12, the police arrested a 39-year-old Filipino, who worked as a construction labourer, on suspicion of having given shelter to ASG and Maute terrorist elements.
“With these arrests, the police believe they can trace and hunt the remnants of the ASG and Maute members suspected to be hiding in the country, especially in Sabah,” he said.
-- BERNAMA


BERNAMA provides up-to-date authentic and comprehensive news and information which are disseminated via BERNAMA Wires; www.bernama.com; BERNAMA TV on Astro 502, unifi TV 631 and MYTV 121 channels and BERNAMA Radio on FM93.9 (Klang Valley), FM107.5 (Johor Bahru), FM107.9 (Kota Kinabalu) and FM100.9 (Kuching) frequencies.Follow us on social media :Facebook :@bernamaofficial,@bernamatv,@bernamaradioTwitter :@bernama.com,@BernamaTV,@bernamaradioInstagram :@bernamaofficial,@bernamatvofficial,@bernamaradioofficialTikTok :@bernamaofficial
BERNAMA, Pertubuhan Berita Nasional Malaysia merupakan Peneraju dalam perkhidmatan berita dan maklumat mempelawa calon warganegara Malaysia yang layak untuk menyertai kami :
Sila layari portal kerjaya BERNAMA dihttps://kerjaya.bernama.comuntuk maklumat lanjut. Permohonan hendaklah dibuat secara atas talian melalui portal kerjaya BERNAMA.
PORTAL KERJAYA BERNAMA
Para Pelanggan Yang Dihormati,
Dimaklumkan bahawa soal selidik ini bertujuan untuk mendapatkan maklum balas pelanggan berhubung tahap pengamalan nilai-nilai murni di jabatan/agensi Kerajaan yang memberikan perkhidmatan kepada tuan/puan.
Berdasarkan pengalaman atau pemerhatian semasa berurusan dengan BERNAMA, sila beri maklum balas kepada pernyataan-pernyataan yang berikut dalam konteks semasa. Kami menghargai maklum balas yang jujur dan rasional daripada anda.
Maklum balas yang diberikan adalah SULIT.
Terima kasih kerana sudi meluangkan masa untuk mengisi soal selidik ini.
Sila klik pautan berikut:
https://insan.jpa.gov.my/survey/agency/f6de54bf-24f2-4858-b445-9ac506487c1c
Wisma BERNAMANo.28 Jalan BERNAMAOff Jalan Tun Razak50400 Kuala LumpurMalaysia
[click here]helpdesk[at]bernama.com

•General•Business•Market•Sports•Lifestyle•Politics•World•Infographics•Videos•Exclusive Press•Archived
•SUKMA 2024•HKHM 2024•Paris 2024 Olympics•Daulat Tuanku•HAWANA 2024•Fokus BERNAMA•Thoughts•Budget 2024•Health•Energy•MAPO•MCMC
•Central•Northern•Southern•East•Sabah•Sarawak
•Corporate Site•Contact Us•BERNAMA Services•Kerjaya@BERNAMA•Quotation / Tender
© 2024 BERNAMA  
      •Disclaimer•Privacy Policy•Security Policy

Title:  Malaysia arrests 12 Filipino terror suspects | The Manila Times 
ZAMBOANGA CITY: Malaysia is holding a dozen Filipinos, including a woman, suspected of being terrorists or protecting terrorists in Sabah.
Malaysian Police Inspector General Tan Sri Mohamad Fuzi Harun announced the capture of the suspects on Monday following their arrest in Semporna and Tambunan during two days of anti-terrorism operations launched by the Special Branch and the VAT 69 Commando Unit, according to the official Malaysia news agency Bernama.
Ad-free access

Title: FBI team to investigate Sudanese PM's assassination attempt - Sudan Tribune
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
Sudanese PM Hamdok at his office on Monday 9 March after surviving an assassination attempt (PM office photo)March 11, 2020 (KHARTOUM) – The Sudanese Ministry of Interior announced, on Tuesday evening, the arrival of a security team from the Federal Bureau of Investigation “FBI”, to assist in the investigations on the assassination attempt of the Sudanese Prime Minister on Monday.
“A three-member security team of the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) will arrive in Khartoum on Wednesday, in coordination with the Ministry of Interior,” said the Interior Ministry in a brief statement on Tuesday.
The statement further said that the US security team will participate in the investigations into the assassination attempt on the Prime Minister, a day after a decision by the Security and Defence Council to request friends’ help to uncover those involved in the failed terrorist attack.
This is the second time that America has dispatched an FBI team to Khartoum.  U.S. security experts had been dispatched in Khartoum to assist in the investigation of the assassination of one of its diplomat John Granville by a Sudanese terrorist group on 1 January 2008.
Marshall Billingslea Assistant Secretary for Terrorist Financing at the U.S. Department of the Treasury who is nowadays in Khartoum described the attack on the Prime Minister as “cowardly act”.
Following a meeting with the Sudanese defence minister, he said that his country would support  Sudan to dry up the sources of financing terrorism and fighting money laundering.
According to the official SUNA, Billingsy said that his country will stand with Khartoum to overcome economic difficulties and challenges and called on the civilian and military component of the transitional government to work together to achieve the needed condition for the democratic transition.
(ST)
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Copyright @ 2024 | Sudan Tribune. All rights reserved.

Title: FBI team to investigate Sudanese PM's assassination attempt - Sudan Tribune
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
Sudanese PM Hamdok at his office on Monday 9 March after surviving an assassination attempt (PM office photo)March 11, 2020 (KHARTOUM) – The Sudanese Ministry of Interior announced, on Tuesday evening, the arrival of a security team from the Federal Bureau of Investigation “FBI”, to assist in the investigations on the assassination attempt of the Sudanese Prime Minister on Monday.
“A three-member security team of the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) will arrive in Khartoum on Wednesday, in coordination with the Ministry of Interior,” said the Interior Ministry in a brief statement on Tuesday.
The statement further said that the US security team will participate in the investigations into the assassination attempt on the Prime Minister, a day after a decision by the Security and Defence Council to request friends’ help to uncover those involved in the failed terrorist attack.
This is the second time that America has dispatched an FBI team to Khartoum.  U.S. security experts had been dispatched in Khartoum to assist in the investigation of the assassination of one of its diplomat John Granville by a Sudanese terrorist group on 1 January 2008.
Marshall Billingslea Assistant Secretary for Terrorist Financing at the U.S. Department of the Treasury who is nowadays in Khartoum described the attack on the Prime Minister as “cowardly act”.
Following a meeting with the Sudanese defence minister, he said that his country would support  Sudan to dry up the sources of financing terrorism and fighting money laundering.
According to the official SUNA, Billingsy said that his country will stand with Khartoum to overcome economic difficulties and challenges and called on the civilian and military component of the transitional government to work together to achieve the needed condition for the democratic transition.
(ST)
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Copyright @ 2024 | Sudan Tribune. All rights reserved.

Title: FBI team to investigate Sudanese PM's assassination attempt - Sudan Tribune
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
Sudanese PM Hamdok at his office on Monday 9 March after surviving an assassination attempt (PM office photo)March 11, 2020 (KHARTOUM) – The Sudanese Ministry of Interior announced, on Tuesday evening, the arrival of a security team from the Federal Bureau of Investigation “FBI”, to assist in the investigations on the assassination attempt of the Sudanese Prime Minister on Monday.
“A three-member security team of the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) will arrive in Khartoum on Wednesday, in coordination with the Ministry of Interior,” said the Interior Ministry in a brief statement on Tuesday.
The statement further said that the US security team will participate in the investigations into the assassination attempt on the Prime Minister, a day after a decision by the Security and Defence Council to request friends’ help to uncover those involved in the failed terrorist attack.
This is the second time that America has dispatched an FBI team to Khartoum.  U.S. security experts had been dispatched in Khartoum to assist in the investigation of the assassination of one of its diplomat John Granville by a Sudanese terrorist group on 1 January 2008.
Marshall Billingslea Assistant Secretary for Terrorist Financing at the U.S. Department of the Treasury who is nowadays in Khartoum described the attack on the Prime Minister as “cowardly act”.
Following a meeting with the Sudanese defence minister, he said that his country would support  Sudan to dry up the sources of financing terrorism and fighting money laundering.
According to the official SUNA, Billingsy said that his country will stand with Khartoum to overcome economic difficulties and challenges and called on the civilian and military component of the transitional government to work together to achieve the needed condition for the democratic transition.
(ST)
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Copyright @ 2024 | Sudan Tribune. All rights reserved.

Title: Police arrest 12 Filipinos, 1 M’sian terrorist suspects in Sabah
The police have arrested 13 people - 12 Filipinos and a Malaysian - in Sabah on suspicion of being members of terrorist groups and protecting terrorists in hiding, Inspector-General of Police Mohamad Fuzi Harun said today.
They were rounded up in the Semporna and Tambunan areas in a two-day operation on March 11 and 12 mounted by the Counter-Terrorism Division, Special Branch and the VAT 69 Commando Unit, he said in a statement.
“All of them were arrested on suspicion of being members of one of several terrorist groups, such as the Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG), Maute and Royal Sulu Force (RSF). Some of them are suspected to have given protection to terrorist elements believed to be in hiding in Sabah,” he said.
Elaborating, Fuzi said the police arrested five Filipinos and the Malaysian, aged between 40 and 60, in Semporna on March 11.
“Four of them are suspected to have been involved in the Maute terrorist group siege of Marawi City, Philippines, in 2017. They are also suspected to have given protection to Maute terrorist elements and several Middle Eastern nationals believed to be hiding in Sabah,” he said.
He also said that the two others are suspected to be members of the RSF that was involved in the attacks in Lahad Datu and Semporna in 2013.
They are also suspected to have been involved in recruiting new members for RSF by selling membership cards of the group to Filipino nationals residing in Sabah, he said.
Fuzi said these two suspects had fled to the southern Philippines after the defeat of the RSF, but in November last year, they sneaked into Semporna to revive RSF activities in Sabah.
Hunt on for more
Also on March 11, the police arrested five Filipinos and a Filipina, aged between 23 and 63, in Tambunan, he said.
“One of the suspects, a construction labourer, is suspected to be a member of the ASG that was involved in the attack on Marawi City. The suspect sneaked into Sabah in December last year to escape Philippine military operations.
“The five others are suspected to have given shelter to ASG and Maute terrorist elements who are still free,” he said.
Fuzi said that on March 12, the police arrested a 39-year-old Filipino, who worked as a construction labourer, on suspicion of having given shelter to ASG and Maute terrorist elements.
“With these arrests, the police believe they can trace and hunt the remnants of the ASG and Maute members suspected to be hiding in the country, especially in Sabah,” he said.
All of them were arrested on suspicion of having committed offences under Chapter VI A on Offences Relating to Terrorism of the Penal Code (Act 574) and are being investigated in accordance with procedures under the Security Offences (Special Measures) Act 2012 (Act 747), he said.
Fuzi said 10 Filipino nationals without valid travel documents were also arrested during the operation.
They have been handed over to the Immigration Department for further action, he added.
- Bernama
Please join theMalaysiakini WhatsApp Channelto get the latest news and views that matter.

Title: Weekly Update on Ebola Virus Disease (EVD): Preparedness for South Sudan Update #28 (16 March 2019) - South Sudan | ReliefWeb
South Sudan+ 1 more
1. Highlights
EVD vaccination exercise completed in Yei River State. Since the launching of vaccination on 28 January 2019, a total of 1, 261 healthcare workers and frontline workers in Yei River State and Gbudue have received the vaccine against Ebola.
The results of the suspected EVD alert in Tambura State tested negative for Ebola. A 15 years old male child presented to Tambura County hospital with fever, followed by bleeding from the nose, body pain and vomiting. Accordingly, the State Rapid Response Team (RRT) investigated, collected blood samples, listed all contacts, and advised the community on the preventive measures.
The IPC/WASH TWG trained 35 health care workers from the South Sudan People’s Defense Force (SSDF) from 12-14 March 2019 on EVD screening, isolation, referral, reporting and IPC/WASH.
DR Congo+ 7 more
DR Congo
DR Congo
DR Congo
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: 2 Filipino militants in 2013 Lahad Datu incursion arrested
KUALA LUMPUR:Two Filipino militants who were involved in the 2013 Lahad Datu incursion were arrested by federal police in Semporna last week.
The suspects who are members of the Royal Sulu Force (RSF) were among those who had fled to the South Philippines following their defeat at the hands of Malaysian forces in 2013.
They are among the 12 Filipinos and a Malaysian who were arrested for militancy by the Special Branch’s counter terrorism division (CTD).
Inspector-General of Police Tan Sri Mohamad Fuzi Harun yesterday said the two suspects held on March 11 in Semporna were also behind the recruitment of new RSF members and had sold membership cards of the group to Filipinos living in Sabah.
“They escaped after the defeat during the Lahad Datu conflict but slipped into Semporna again in November last year to revive the RSF’s activities in Sabah.” he said.
Mohamad Fuzi said also held in Semporna were three other Filipinos and a Malaysian who were members of the South Philippines Maute militant group.
He said investigations showed that the suspects were involved in the 2017 Marawi skirmish in the Philippines.
Mohamad Fuzi said the men had also provided protection to other Maute members and several nationals from the Middle East who have gone into hiding in Sabah.
On the same day and on March 12 in Tambunan, Sabah, six men and a woman, all Filipinos aged between 23 and 63, were also held for their involvement with the Maute militants and for harbouring members of the Abu Sayaf militant group.
“Separately during this operation, we also detained 10 other Filipinos who did not possess valid travel documents. We have handed them to the Immigration Department for further action. With the latest arrests, we are confident of tracing and detaining the remnants of the Abu Sayaf and Maute militants who remain in hiding in Sabah.” he said.
Mohamad Fuzi said all 13 suspects who are aged between 23 and 63 are being held for investigations under laws of the Security Offences (Special Measures) Act 2012.
The Marawi skirmish occurred in May, 2017 when Maute and Abu Sayaf militants laid siege on the town before clashing with Philippine security forces.
The conflict lasted for five months when Philippines troops defeated the militants, including killing their commanders - Isnilon Hapilon and brothers, Omar and Abdullah Maute.
Hundreds of thousands of residents fled the town during the conflict which left over 1,000 people dead.

Tel: +603-7784 6688      Fax: +603-7785 2625

Title: 2 Filipino militants in 2013 Lahad Datu incursion arrested
KUALA LUMPUR:Two Filipino militants who were involved in the 2013 Lahad Datu incursion were arrested by federal police in Semporna last week.
The suspects who are members of the Royal Sulu Force (RSF) were among those who had fled to the South Philippines following their defeat at the hands of Malaysian forces in 2013.
They are among the 12 Filipinos and a Malaysian who were arrested for militancy by the Special Branch’s counter terrorism division (CTD).
Inspector-General of Police Tan Sri Mohamad Fuzi Harun yesterday said the two suspects held on March 11 in Semporna were also behind the recruitment of new RSF members and had sold membership cards of the group to Filipinos living in Sabah.
“They escaped after the defeat during the Lahad Datu conflict but slipped into Semporna again in November last year to revive the RSF’s activities in Sabah.” he said.
Mohamad Fuzi said also held in Semporna were three other Filipinos and a Malaysian who were members of the South Philippines Maute militant group.
He said investigations showed that the suspects were involved in the 2017 Marawi skirmish in the Philippines.
Mohamad Fuzi said the men had also provided protection to other Maute members and several nationals from the Middle East who have gone into hiding in Sabah.
On the same day and on March 12 in Tambunan, Sabah, six men and a woman, all Filipinos aged between 23 and 63, were also held for their involvement with the Maute militants and for harbouring members of the Abu Sayaf militant group.
“Separately during this operation, we also detained 10 other Filipinos who did not possess valid travel documents. We have handed them to the Immigration Department for further action. With the latest arrests, we are confident of tracing and detaining the remnants of the Abu Sayaf and Maute militants who remain in hiding in Sabah.” he said.
Mohamad Fuzi said all 13 suspects who are aged between 23 and 63 are being held for investigations under laws of the Security Offences (Special Measures) Act 2012.
The Marawi skirmish occurred in May, 2017 when Maute and Abu Sayaf militants laid siege on the town before clashing with Philippine security forces.
The conflict lasted for five months when Philippines troops defeated the militants, including killing their commanders - Isnilon Hapilon and brothers, Omar and Abdullah Maute.
Hundreds of thousands of residents fled the town during the conflict which left over 1,000 people dead.

Tel: +603-7784 6688      Fax: +603-7785 2625