Title: Hundreds Sudan militia fighters deployed to Haftar's Libya offensive


The troops, belonging to the notoriously violent paramilitary group, are reportedly the first batch of 4,000 Sudanese fighters to be sent to Libya to support Haftar, according to Sudan'sRadio Dabanga.
Haftar, known for his ruthless brutality, launched a large-scaleoperationto capture the capital Tripoli from forces loyal to the UN-backed Government of National Accord (GNA) in April.The campaign has left over 1,000 people dead, according to the World Health Organisation, and forced more than 100,000 people to flee their homes.Mercenaries from Sudan's RSF are thought to be fighting in Yemen among other countries.The force, originating out of the feared Janjaweed militia accused of atrocities in Darfur, are estimated to consist of 30,000 troops under the command ofMohamed Hamdan Dagalo, known asHemedti.
Both Haftar and deposed Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi wereknownto use RSF mercenaries to fight against Islamist militants in Libya's east.
Haftar allegedlyrewardedthose fighting for him by providing a secure base from which to launch their attacks in the Darfur region, reports suggest.
Members of the RSF have been deployed in Yemen since 2015, fighting alongside Saudi and Emirati forces by whom they are supported with money and weapons.
Countless militia, extremist and mercenary groups arefightingin the chaotic conflict in Libya, from countries including Sudan, Chad, Tunisia, and Egypt.

Title: Sudan paramilitaries 'torture' civilian to death: doctors | Daily Mail Online
ByAfp
Published:07:59 EDT, 16 July 2019|Updated:09:30 EDT, 16 July 2019


Members of the Rapid Support Forces secure a rally for supporters of Sudan's ruling Transitional Military Council in the village of Abraq, about 60 kilometers northwest of Khartoum, last month
Paramilitary men beat and tortured to death a civilian in Sudan's war-torn Darfur region, a doctors committee linked to the country's protest movement said Tuesday.
The civilian died on Monday in El-Daen, in East Darfur state, after members of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) clashed with youths accused of stealing mobile phones, the committee said on its Facebook page.
"Members from Al-Janjaweed (RSF) militia beat and tortured a number of youths... on allegations that the youths had stolen a mobile phone," it said.
"One youth passed away due to torture by Al-Janjaweed," it said, referring to the RSF which has its origins in the militia that fought ethnic African rebels in Darfur during a civil war that broke out in 2003.
Witnesses contacted by telephone backed up the account of the doctors committee.
Two witnesses said an RSF unit arrested five youths -- accusing them of stealing mobile phones from their base -- and took them outside town, where they tortured them, and abandoned them on the streets.
One of the victims allegedly died, they said.
After the victim was buried, town residents converged on the RSF base and torched it, while other RSF personnel arrested the unit responsible, the two witnesses said.
An RSF spokesman was unavailable for comment.
The doctors' committee alleged a total of six civilians have died over the past three days at the hands of the RSF, including four members of a family run over by a vehicle driven by a paramilitary unit in Omdurman, the twin city of Khartoum.
- Generals 'protect militias' -
No caption
The sixth person was killed by gunfire in El-Souki, in the southeastern state of Sinnar, as residents protested against the RSF, demanding they leave town, according to the committee and witnesses.
"The continuation of the barbarity and tampering with civilians' safety daily by Janjaweed (RSF) militias, coupled with not holding them accountable under any law or code of ethics, prove that the Transitional Military Council protects these militias," the committee said.
The protest movement blamed the deaths in El-Souki and El-Daen on the security apparatus and the military council which has ruled Sudan since the ouster in April of longtime president Omar al-Bashir following months of anti-regime demonstrations.
"We hold the security authorities responsible for those killed in El-Daen and El-Souki," Ismail al-Taj, a spokesman for the Sudanese Professionals Association told reporters in Khartoum.
The SPA spearheaded protests against Bashir that broke out in December.
"We demand an independent investigation to identify those who committed these heinous crimes against citizens," Taj said, adding it was the responsibility of the military council to protect civilians during protests and rallies.
On Monday, scores of protesters demonstrated in parts of the capital, including at night, against the killing in El-Souki.
Protesters and rights groups accuse RSF personnel of having carried out a brutal raid on a protest camp outside military headquarters in Khartoum on June 3 that left dozens dead and hundreds wounded.
RSF commander Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, the deputy chief of Sudan's military council, has portrayed the allegations as part of an attempt to distort the image of his paramilitary force.
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group

Title: Nation - Breaking News, Kenya, Africa, Politics, Business, Sports | HOME | Nation
The proposed talks now appear headed for a standoff.
Raila also promised to pursue a continental air control system to reduce bureaucratic hurdles.
Kuppet says it prefers talks over protracted court battles.
New officials will take over once the terms of the current office holders expire.
DPP urges the court to impose a maximum sentence on the politician.
Prof Mary Walingo in legal trouble after the university council accuses her of embezzlement.
However, he did not give a timeline on when this will happen.
Sponsored by HF Markets
Sponsored by Stand Up Young Africa (SUYA) Foundation
Sponsored by Tanzania Ports Authority
Sponsored by Open University of Kenya
The economic case of family planning and why it matters not only to individuals and families, but for the nation at large.
Article 57 of the Kenyan Constitution commands the State and the family to offer older persons in the society reasonable care and assistance. As per the Constitution older women and men are those...
From Frequently Asked Questions to school going children must register before reporting. Join the conversation with Health Lawyer, Margaret Nyambura , Dr Simon Kigondu and host, Dr Diana Wangari
Raila also promised to pursue a continental air control system to reduce bureaucratic hurdles.
Events from far and wide seemed to have converged to bring Raila Odinga good fortune.
Aviation Workers Union demands transparency as government scrambles to avert aviation crisis
Frequent and erratic revision of regulations creates shaky ground for the construction industry.
Prezzo, a pioneer in the Kenyan music scene, has significantly influenced the industry over the years.
A walk to a gym in Nairobi on any day, you can rest assured to find almost all women rocking those sports bras.
Kenyan students shine with captivation presentations at the Music and Drama Festival in Uganda.
Kenyan champions go down fighting to CBE.
Nation Media Group © 2024

Title: Sudan Sends Hundreds of Militia Fighters to Libya | Al Bawaba
An estimated 1,000 fighters from Sudan's Rapid Support Forces (RSF) militia arrived in central Libya on Thursday, reportedly charged with protecting oil infrastructure to allow warlord Khalifa Haftar's troops to focus solely on the ongoing offensive to seize Tripoli.The troops, belonging to the notoriously violent paramilitary group, are reportedly the first batch of 4,000 Sudanese fighters to be sent to Libya to support Haftar, according to Sudan's Radio Dabanga.
Haftar, known for his ruthless brutality, launched a large-scale operation to capture the capital Tripoli from forces loyal to the UN-backed Government of National Accord (GNA) in April.
The campaign has left over 1,000 people dead, according to the World Health Organisation, and forced more than 100,000 people to flee their homes.
Mercenaries from Sudan's RSF are thought to be fighting in Yemen among other countries.
The force, originating out of the feared Janjaweed militia accused of atrocities in Darfur, are estimated to consist of 30,000 troops under the command of Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, known as Hemedti.
{"preview_thumbnail":"https://cdn.flowplayer.com/6684a05f-6468-4ecd-87d5-a748773282a3/i/v-i-3…","video_id":"350c98f0-f33d-451b-bdc3-79b4bc5c9dfe","player_id":"8ca46225-42a2-4245-9c20-7850ae937431","provider":"flowplayer","video":"Houthis Claim Responsibility of Drone Attack on Saudi Airbase"}
Both Haftar and deposed Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi were known to use RSF mercenaries to fight against Islamist militants in Libya's east.
Haftar allegedly rewarded those fighting for him by providing a secure base from which to launch their attacks in the Darfur region, reports suggest.
Members of the RSF have been deployed in Yemen since 2015, fighting alongside Saudi and Emirati forces by whom they are supported with money and weapons.
Countless militia, extremist and mercenary groups are fighting in the chaotic conflict in Libya, from countries including Sudan, Chad, Tunisia, and Egypt.
This article has been adapted from its original source.
ViaSyndiGate.info
Copyright @ 2022 The New Arab.
Subscribe to our newsletter for exclusive updates and enhanced content
Subscribe


Title: Sudan paramilitaries 'tortured civilian to death', doctors say
The civilian died on Monday in El-Daen, in East Darfur state, after members of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) clashed with youths accused of stealing a mobile phone, the committee said on its Facebook page.
"Members from Al-Janjaweed (RSF) militia beat and tortured a number of youths... on allegations that the youths had stolen a mobile phone," it said.
"One youth passed away due to torture by Al-Janjaweed," it said, referring to the RSF which has its origins in the militia that fought ethnic African rebels in Darfur during a civil war that broke out in 2003.
The doctors committee said a total of six civilians have died over the past three days at the hands of the RSF, including four members of a family run over by a vehicle driven by an RSF unit in Omdurman, the twin city of Khartoum.
The sixth person was killed by gunfire in El-Souki, in the southeastern state of Sinnar, as residents protested against the RSF, demanding they leave the town, according to the doctors committee and witnesses.
"The continuation of the barbarity and tampering with civilian’s safety daily by Janjaweed (RSF) militias, coupled with not holding them accountable under any law or code of ethics, prove that the Transitional Military Council protects these militias," the committee said.
It was not immediately possible to get a comment from the RSF.
On Monday, scores of protesters demonstrated in some parts of the capital, including at night, against the killing of the civilian in El-Souki.
Protesters and rights groups also accuse the RSF of carrying out the brutal raid on a protest camp in Khartoum on June 3 that left dozens dead and hundreds wounded.
RSF commander Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, the deputy chief of Sudan's ruling military council, has denied such allegations as part of an attempt to distort the image of his paramilitary force.Follow us on Twitter:@The_NewArab

Title: Paramilitary men tortured civilian to death, doctor says - Punch Newspapers
Most Widely Read Newspaper
File copy: Doctors on duty
Kindly share this story:
Sudan’s feared paramilitaries have beaten and tortured to death a civilian in a town in war-torn Darfur, a doctors’ committee linked to the protest movement said Tuesday.The civilian died on Monday in El-Daen, in East Darfur state, after members of the Rapid Support Forces clashed with youths accused of stealing a mobile phone, the committee said on its Facebook page.“Members from Al-Janjaweed (RSF) militia beat and tortured a number of youths… on allegations that the youths had stolen a mobile phone,” it said.SEE ALSO:Man arrested at airport with $34,000 cocaine under his wig“One youth passed away due to torture by Al-Janjaweed,” it said, referring to the RSF which has its origins in the militia that fought ethnic African rebels in Darfur during a civil war that broke out in 2003.The doctors committee said a total of six civilians have died over the past three days at the hands of the RSF, including four members of a family run over by a vehicle driven by an RSF unit in Omdurman, the twin city of Khartoum.The sixth person was killed by gunfire in El-Souki, in the southeastern state of Sinnar, as residents protested against the RSF, demanding they leave the town, according to the doctors committee and witnesses.Related NewsSudan deserves global attentionSudan army boycotts ceasefire talks in SwitzerlandFG evacuates Nigerians in Sudan as expulsion deadline looms“The continuation of the barbarity and tampering with civilian’s safety daily by Janjaweed (RSF) militias, coupled with not holding them accountable under any law or code of ethics, prove that the Transitional Military Council protects these militias,” the committee said.It was not immediately possible to get a comment from the RSF.On Monday, scores of protesters demonstrated in some parts of the capital, including at night, against the killing of the civilian in El-Souki.Protesters and rights groups also accuse the RSF of carrying out the brutal raid on a protest camp in Khartoum on June 3 that left dozens dead and hundreds wounded.RSF commander Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, the deputy chief of Sudan’s ruling military council, has denied such allegations as part of an attempt to distort the image of his paramilitary force.(AFP)
The civilian died on Monday in El-Daen, in East Darfur state, after members of the Rapid Support Forces clashed with youths accused of stealing a mobile phone, the committee said on its Facebook page.“Members from Al-Janjaweed (RSF) militia beat and tortured a number of youths… on allegations that the youths had stolen a mobile phone,” it said.SEE ALSO:Man arrested at airport with $34,000 cocaine under his wig“One youth passed away due to torture by Al-Janjaweed,” it said, referring to the RSF which has its origins in the militia that fought ethnic African rebels in Darfur during a civil war that broke out in 2003.The doctors committee said a total of six civilians have died over the past three days at the hands of the RSF, including four members of a family run over by a vehicle driven by an RSF unit in Omdurman, the twin city of Khartoum.The sixth person was killed by gunfire in El-Souki, in the southeastern state of Sinnar, as residents protested against the RSF, demanding they leave the town, according to the doctors committee and witnesses.Related NewsSudan deserves global attentionSudan army boycotts ceasefire talks in SwitzerlandFG evacuates Nigerians in Sudan as expulsion deadline looms“The continuation of the barbarity and tampering with civilian’s safety daily by Janjaweed (RSF) militias, coupled with not holding them accountable under any law or code of ethics, prove that the Transitional Military Council protects these militias,” the committee said.It was not immediately possible to get a comment from the RSF.On Monday, scores of protesters demonstrated in some parts of the capital, including at night, against the killing of the civilian in El-Souki.Protesters and rights groups also accuse the RSF of carrying out the brutal raid on a protest camp in Khartoum on June 3 that left dozens dead and hundreds wounded.RSF commander Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, the deputy chief of Sudan’s ruling military council, has denied such allegations as part of an attempt to distort the image of his paramilitary force.(AFP)
“Members from Al-Janjaweed (RSF) militia beat and tortured a number of youths… on allegations that the youths had stolen a mobile phone,” it said.SEE ALSO:Man arrested at airport with $34,000 cocaine under his wig“One youth passed away due to torture by Al-Janjaweed,” it said, referring to the RSF which has its origins in the militia that fought ethnic African rebels in Darfur during a civil war that broke out in 2003.The doctors committee said a total of six civilians have died over the past three days at the hands of the RSF, including four members of a family run over by a vehicle driven by an RSF unit in Omdurman, the twin city of Khartoum.The sixth person was killed by gunfire in El-Souki, in the southeastern state of Sinnar, as residents protested against the RSF, demanding they leave the town, according to the doctors committee and witnesses.Related NewsSudan deserves global attentionSudan army boycotts ceasefire talks in SwitzerlandFG evacuates Nigerians in Sudan as expulsion deadline looms“The continuation of the barbarity and tampering with civilian’s safety daily by Janjaweed (RSF) militias, coupled with not holding them accountable under any law or code of ethics, prove that the Transitional Military Council protects these militias,” the committee said.It was not immediately possible to get a comment from the RSF.On Monday, scores of protesters demonstrated in some parts of the capital, including at night, against the killing of the civilian in El-Souki.Protesters and rights groups also accuse the RSF of carrying out the brutal raid on a protest camp in Khartoum on June 3 that left dozens dead and hundreds wounded.RSF commander Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, the deputy chief of Sudan’s ruling military council, has denied such allegations as part of an attempt to distort the image of his paramilitary force.(AFP)
SEE ALSO:Man arrested at airport with $34,000 cocaine under his wig“One youth passed away due to torture by Al-Janjaweed,” it said, referring to the RSF which has its origins in the militia that fought ethnic African rebels in Darfur during a civil war that broke out in 2003.The doctors committee said a total of six civilians have died over the past three days at the hands of the RSF, including four members of a family run over by a vehicle driven by an RSF unit in Omdurman, the twin city of Khartoum.The sixth person was killed by gunfire in El-Souki, in the southeastern state of Sinnar, as residents protested against the RSF, demanding they leave the town, according to the doctors committee and witnesses.Related NewsSudan deserves global attentionSudan army boycotts ceasefire talks in SwitzerlandFG evacuates Nigerians in Sudan as expulsion deadline looms“The continuation of the barbarity and tampering with civilian’s safety daily by Janjaweed (RSF) militias, coupled with not holding them accountable under any law or code of ethics, prove that the Transitional Military Council protects these militias,” the committee said.It was not immediately possible to get a comment from the RSF.On Monday, scores of protesters demonstrated in some parts of the capital, including at night, against the killing of the civilian in El-Souki.Protesters and rights groups also accuse the RSF of carrying out the brutal raid on a protest camp in Khartoum on June 3 that left dozens dead and hundreds wounded.RSF commander Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, the deputy chief of Sudan’s ruling military council, has denied such allegations as part of an attempt to distort the image of his paramilitary force.(AFP)
“One youth passed away due to torture by Al-Janjaweed,” it said, referring to the RSF which has its origins in the militia that fought ethnic African rebels in Darfur during a civil war that broke out in 2003.The doctors committee said a total of six civilians have died over the past three days at the hands of the RSF, including four members of a family run over by a vehicle driven by an RSF unit in Omdurman, the twin city of Khartoum.The sixth person was killed by gunfire in El-Souki, in the southeastern state of Sinnar, as residents protested against the RSF, demanding they leave the town, according to the doctors committee and witnesses.Related NewsSudan deserves global attentionSudan army boycotts ceasefire talks in SwitzerlandFG evacuates Nigerians in Sudan as expulsion deadline looms“The continuation of the barbarity and tampering with civilian’s safety daily by Janjaweed (RSF) militias, coupled with not holding them accountable under any law or code of ethics, prove that the Transitional Military Council protects these militias,” the committee said.It was not immediately possible to get a comment from the RSF.On Monday, scores of protesters demonstrated in some parts of the capital, including at night, against the killing of the civilian in El-Souki.Protesters and rights groups also accuse the RSF of carrying out the brutal raid on a protest camp in Khartoum on June 3 that left dozens dead and hundreds wounded.RSF commander Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, the deputy chief of Sudan’s ruling military council, has denied such allegations as part of an attempt to distort the image of his paramilitary force.(AFP)
The doctors committee said a total of six civilians have died over the past three days at the hands of the RSF, including four members of a family run over by a vehicle driven by an RSF unit in Omdurman, the twin city of Khartoum.The sixth person was killed by gunfire in El-Souki, in the southeastern state of Sinnar, as residents protested against the RSF, demanding they leave the town, according to the doctors committee and witnesses.Related NewsSudan deserves global attentionSudan army boycotts ceasefire talks in SwitzerlandFG evacuates Nigerians in Sudan as expulsion deadline looms“The continuation of the barbarity and tampering with civilian’s safety daily by Janjaweed (RSF) militias, coupled with not holding them accountable under any law or code of ethics, prove that the Transitional Military Council protects these militias,” the committee said.It was not immediately possible to get a comment from the RSF.On Monday, scores of protesters demonstrated in some parts of the capital, including at night, against the killing of the civilian in El-Souki.Protesters and rights groups also accuse the RSF of carrying out the brutal raid on a protest camp in Khartoum on June 3 that left dozens dead and hundreds wounded.RSF commander Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, the deputy chief of Sudan’s ruling military council, has denied such allegations as part of an attempt to distort the image of his paramilitary force.(AFP)
The sixth person was killed by gunfire in El-Souki, in the southeastern state of Sinnar, as residents protested against the RSF, demanding they leave the town, according to the doctors committee and witnesses.Related NewsSudan deserves global attentionSudan army boycotts ceasefire talks in SwitzerlandFG evacuates Nigerians in Sudan as expulsion deadline looms“The continuation of the barbarity and tampering with civilian’s safety daily by Janjaweed (RSF) militias, coupled with not holding them accountable under any law or code of ethics, prove that the Transitional Military Council protects these militias,” the committee said.It was not immediately possible to get a comment from the RSF.On Monday, scores of protesters demonstrated in some parts of the capital, including at night, against the killing of the civilian in El-Souki.Protesters and rights groups also accuse the RSF of carrying out the brutal raid on a protest camp in Khartoum on June 3 that left dozens dead and hundreds wounded.RSF commander Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, the deputy chief of Sudan’s ruling military council, has denied such allegations as part of an attempt to distort the image of his paramilitary force.(AFP)
“The continuation of the barbarity and tampering with civilian’s safety daily by Janjaweed (RSF) militias, coupled with not holding them accountable under any law or code of ethics, prove that the Transitional Military Council protects these militias,” the committee said.It was not immediately possible to get a comment from the RSF.On Monday, scores of protesters demonstrated in some parts of the capital, including at night, against the killing of the civilian in El-Souki.Protesters and rights groups also accuse the RSF of carrying out the brutal raid on a protest camp in Khartoum on June 3 that left dozens dead and hundreds wounded.RSF commander Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, the deputy chief of Sudan’s ruling military council, has denied such allegations as part of an attempt to distort the image of his paramilitary force.(AFP)
It was not immediately possible to get a comment from the RSF.On Monday, scores of protesters demonstrated in some parts of the capital, including at night, against the killing of the civilian in El-Souki.Protesters and rights groups also accuse the RSF of carrying out the brutal raid on a protest camp in Khartoum on June 3 that left dozens dead and hundreds wounded.RSF commander Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, the deputy chief of Sudan’s ruling military council, has denied such allegations as part of an attempt to distort the image of his paramilitary force.(AFP)
On Monday, scores of protesters demonstrated in some parts of the capital, including at night, against the killing of the civilian in El-Souki.Protesters and rights groups also accuse the RSF of carrying out the brutal raid on a protest camp in Khartoum on June 3 that left dozens dead and hundreds wounded.RSF commander Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, the deputy chief of Sudan’s ruling military council, has denied such allegations as part of an attempt to distort the image of his paramilitary force.(AFP)
Protesters and rights groups also accuse the RSF of carrying out the brutal raid on a protest camp in Khartoum on June 3 that left dozens dead and hundreds wounded.RSF commander Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, the deputy chief of Sudan’s ruling military council, has denied such allegations as part of an attempt to distort the image of his paramilitary force.(AFP)
RSF commander Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, the deputy chief of Sudan’s ruling military council, has denied such allegations as part of an attempt to distort the image of his paramilitary force.(AFP)
(AFP)
Kindly share this story:
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.
Contact:[email protected]
Stay informed and ahead of the curve! Follow The Punch Newspaper on WhatsApp for real-time updates, breaking news, and exclusive content. Don't miss a headline – join now!
punchng.com © 1971- 2024 Punch Nigeria Limited

Title: Sudan Communist Party demands dissolution of brutal paramilitary forces
Sudan's Communist Party on Wednesday demanded the dissolution of a government paramilitary force widely held responsible for the massacre of more than a hundred people last month.
The opposition party also warned that a yet-to-be-signed "constitutional agreement" between the ruling military junta and the opposition Alliance for Freedom and Change (AFC) would "enshrine military rule" and maintain laws restricting freedoms,Al-Jazeerareported.
Protesters across Sudan willtake to the streetson Thursday to renew their call for a transitional government led by technocrats.
The party, which has taken an active role in opposing both the regime of former President Omar al-Bashir and the military junta that displaced it, also urged the complete withdrawal of the Sudanese armed forces from Yemen.
Sudan has been an active member in the brutal Saudi-led coalition war on Yemen since it began in 2015.
Its participation in the war was later reaffirmed by the country's military after it seized power from Bashir in April. Military junta leader Abd al-Fattah al-Burhan was previously in charge of sending Sudanese troops to Yemen.
Turkey's state news agencyAnadolu, citing a spokesman for the Yemeni army, reported on Wednesday that the Sudanese armed forces had partially withdrawn from the war-torn nation, which the United Nations says is struck by the world's worst humanitarian crisis with millions on the brink of starvation.
Following theearlier withdrawalof UAE troops from the same areas, Yemeni armed forces will replace the Sudanese troops around Hodeidah.
A spokesman for the Saudi-led coalition speaking to the UAE-basedThe Nationaldenied reports of a Sudanese partial withdrawal.
Who are the RSF?
The Communist Party on Wednesday called for the disbandment of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
The RSF is an officialised paramilitary offshoot of the Janjaweed militias, widely accused of having committed war crimes and genocide during the Darfur conflict.
— The New Arab (@The_NewArab)July 24, 2019" style="color:#fff;" class="twitter-post-link" target="_blank">Twitter Post
“Sudan's revolutionaries must remove Hemedti by any means necessary“https://t.co/JgM7j7N61E
Prior to its widespread deployment in the capital and other cities across Sudan, the RSF was mainly responsible for battling rebel groups in the country's conflict zones of Darfur, Blue Nile and South Kordofan.Dagalo's RSF is widely accused of recruiting child soldiers.The New York Timeslast year reported that RSF child soldiers as young as 14 are frequently seen on the frontlines in Yemen.Activists say that Saudi and UAE funding has enabled Dagalo, popularly known by his nickname Himedti, to offer young Darfuris living in extreme poverty a comparatively lucrative wage in order to fight in Yemen - and more recently in the Sudanese capital.
Rights groups say the paramilitary militia has perpetrated major human rights violations in those areas.
The RSF is also responsible for rounding up and deporting refugees and migrants, most of whom are Somalis, Eritreans and Ethiopians, attempting to cross the desert to reach Europe.
The EU has given Sudan more than $250 million to combatmigrationas part of a $5 billion fund to combat migration from Africa to Europe. Critics say that money has been funnelled into Sudan's feared security services and the RSF and has emboldened rights abuses against migrants.
An EU spokesperson speaking toDeutsche Welleearlier this week said that a German-led project that organises training and equipment for Sudanese border guards and police has been "halted" since mid-March.

Title: Les impitoyables trafiquants d'or qui dirigent le Soudan - BBC News Afrique
Crédit photo,AFP
Les Forces de soutien rapide (Rapid Support Forces -RSF) ont été accusées d'exactions de grande ampleur au Soudan, y compris les massacres du 3 juin au cours desquels plus de 120 personnes ont été tuées.
Un grand nombre de morts ont été jetés dans le Nil.
L'expert soudanais Alex de Waal dresse le bilan de l'ascension des RSF, qui sont aujourd'hui le véritable pouvoir au Soudan.
Il s'agit d'un nouveau type de régime : un mélange de milices ethniques et d'entreprises commerciales, une force mercenaire transnationale qui a pris le contrôle d'un État.
Le général Mohamed Hamdan Hamdan "Hemeti" Dagolo est leur commandant.
Hémeti et ses combattants ont fait du chemin depuis leurs débuts en tant que ''miliciens arabes" largement désignés sous le nom de "Janjaweed".
Lire aussi :
La junte et les civils signent un accord au Soudan
Omar El-Béchir inculpé au Soudan
Les RSF ont été officiellement créés en 2013 par décret du président de l'époque, Omar el-Béchir.
Mais le noyau de 5 000 miliciens était armé et actif depuis longtemps.
Mohamed Hamdan "Hemeti" Dagolo
Granditdans le désert du Darfour, il abandonne l'école au primaire
Marchand de chameauxpuis chef de milice et marchand d'or
Surnommé “Hemeti”(Petit Mohamed) à cause de son visage aux airs de bébé
“Himayti"(Mon Protecteur) le surnom donné par l'ex-Président Bashir
Aide le coup d'Etatcontre M. Bashir
Soutenu parl'Arabie saoudite et les EAU. C'est un général puissant
Leur histoire commence en 2003, lorsque le gouvernement de M. Béchir a mobilisé des éleveurs arabes pour lutter contre les insurgés noirs du Darfour.
'Voici les Janjaweed'
Les Janjaweed étaient essentiellement des nomades éleveurs de chameaux, appartenant aux branches mahamides et mahariya du groupe ethnique des Rizeigat du Darfour-Nord et des régions adjacentes du Tchad.
Ils traversaient le désert bien avant que la frontière soit tracée.
Pendant la guerre et les massacres de 2003-2005 au Darfour, le chef "janjaweed" le plus tristement célèbre était Musa Hilal, chef du Mahamid.
Crédit photo,AFP
Ces combattants ayant prouvé leur efficacité au combat, M. Béchir les a transformés en une force paramilitaire formelle appelée Border Intelligence Units.
Une brigade active au Darfour-Sud comprenait un jeune combattant particulièrement dynamique, Mohamed Dagolo, surnommé "Hemeti" en raison de son visage de bébé - Hemeti étant un terme affectueux utilisé par les mères, et qui signifie "Petit Mohamed".
Devenu petit commerçant après avoir abandonné l'école, il était membre du clan Mahariya des Rizeigat.
Certains disent que son grand-père était un chef subalterne lorsqu'ils résidaient au Tchad.
Un intermède crucial dans la carrière de Hemeti s'est produit en 2007, lorsque ses troupes étaient très en colère contre le gouvernement qui avait du mal à les payer.
Elles avaient l'impression d'avoir été exploitées, envoyées en première ligne, accusées d'atrocités, puis abandonnées.
Lire aussi :
Au Soudan, les généraux réclament un plan de transition commun Éthiopie-UA
Au Soudan, Omar el-Béchir déféré au parquet
Hemeti et ses combattants se sont mutinés, promettant de combattre Khartoum "jusqu'au jour du jugement".
Ils ont tenté de conclure un accord avec les rebelles du Darfour.
Un documentaire tourné à cette époque, intitulé "Meet the Janjaweed" (A la rencontre des Janjaweed), le montre en train de recruter des volontaires de l'ethnie noire des Fours du Darfour dans son armée, pour combattre aux côtés de leurs anciens ennemis, les Arabes.
Bien que les commandants de Hemeti soient tous de son propre clan, celui des Mahariya, il était prêt à enrôler des hommes de tous les groupes ethniques.
Récemment, les RSF ont intégré une faction dissidente de l'Armée de libération du Soudan (ALS) - dirigée par Mohamedein Ismail "Orgajor", un Zaghawa - une autre communauté du Darfour qui avait été liée aux rebelles.
Hemeti est retourné à Khartoum lorsqu'on lui a proposé un accord avantageux : un rappel du salaire de ses troupes, des grades pour ses officiers et un montant élevé.
Il est devenu brigadier général, au grand dam des officiers de l'armée mieux formés.
Ses troupes ont été placées sous le commandement du Service national de renseignement et de sécurité (NISS), qui organisait alors une guerre par procuration avec le Tchad.
Certains combattants de Hemeti servant sous la bannière de l'opposition tchadienne se sont battus jusqu'à N'Djamena, la capitale tchadienne, en 2008.
Pendant ce temps, Hemeti s'est disputé avec son ancien maître, Hilal.
Hilal était un mutin à répétition, et les généraux de M. Béchir trouvaient Hemeti plus fiable.
En 2013, une nouvelle force paramilitaire a été formée sous Hemeti et appelée les RSF.
Le chef d'état-major de l'armée n'a pas apprécié - il voulait que l'argent aille au renforcement des forces régulières - et M. Béchir craignait de mettre trop de pouvoir entre les mains du NISS, après avoir licencié son directeur, lui reprochant d'avoir conspiré contre lui.
Lire aussi :
Des membres de l’opposition arrêtés au Soudan
Au Soudan, les manifestants appellent à la "désobéissance civile"
Les RSF ont donc été placées sous la responsabilité de M. Béchir lui-même.
Le président a donné à Hemeti le surnom de "Himayti", qui signifie "mon protecteur".
Des camps d'entraînement ont été installés près de la capitale, Khartoum.
Des centaines de camionnettes Land Cruiser ont été importées et équipées de mitrailleuses.
Les troupes des RSF ont combattu les rebelles dans le Kordofan méridional - ils étaient indisciplinés et n'ont pas accompli correctement leur mission - et les rebelles au Darfour, où ils ont mieux fait.
La rivalité entre Hemeti et Hilal s'est intensifiée lorsque de l'or a été découvert au Jebel Amir, dans l'État du Darfour-Nord, en 2012.
A cette époque, le Soudan était confronté à une crise économique parce que le Soudan du Sud est devenu indépendant, emportant avec lui 75% des réserves de pétrole du pays, ce qui semblait être une aubaine.
Crédit photo,AFP
Mais c'était plutôt une malédiction.
Des dizaines de milliers de jeunes hommes ont afflué dans un coin reculé du Darfour.
Une ruée vers l'or pour tenter leur chance dans des mines peu profondes avec un équipement rudimentaire.
Certains ont trouvé de l'or et sont devenus riches, d'autres sont morts dans des éboulements ou empoisonnés par le mercure et l'arsenic utilisés pour traiter les pépites.
Lire aussi:
Un chef rebelle soudanais de retour au pays
Qui est Omar el-Béchir, le président soudanais déchu par l'armée ?
Coup d'État au Soudan : comment on en est arrivé là
Que contient l'accord entre l'armée et l'opposition soudanaise ?
Les miliciens de Hilal ont pris le contrôle de la région par la force, tuant plus de 800 personnes de l'ethnie des Beni Hussein.
Ils ont commencé à s'enrichir en exploitant et en vendant de l'or.
Une partie de l'or a été vendue au gouvernement, qui a payé plus cher que le prix du marché en monnaie soudanaise parce qu'il était tellement désespéré de mettre la main sur l'or qu'il pouvait le revendre à Dubaï en devises fortes.
Entre-temps, de l'or a été introduit clandestinement au Tchad, où il a fait l'objet d'un échange rentable dans le cadre d'un racket impliquant l'achat de véhicules volés et leur retour clandestin au Soudan.
Crédit photo,Reuters
Dans les marchés de la zone désertique de Tibesti, dans le nord du Tchad, 1,5 kg d'or brut a été échangé contre un Land Cruiser modèle 2015, probablement volé à une agence humanitaire au Darfour.
Cette voiture a ensuite été reconduit au Darfour, équipé de plaques d'immatriculation peintes à la main, pour y être revendu.
En 2017, les ventes d'or représentaient 40% des exportations du Soudan.
Et Hemeti voulait les contrôler.
Il possédait déjà des mines et avait créé une société commerciale connue sous le nom d'al-Junaid.
Lire aussi :
Une société aurifère chinoise interdite au Ghana
Madagascar : l'or engendre la polémique
Mais quand Hilal a encore une fois défié M. Béchir, refusant au gouvernement l'accès aux mines de Jebel Amir, les RSF de Hemeti ont lancé la contre-attaque.
En novembre 2017, ses forces ont arrêté Hilal et les RSF ont pris le contrôle des mines d'or les plus lucratives du Soudan.
Du jour au lendemain, Hemeti est devenu le plus grand négociant d'or du pays et - en contrôlant la frontière avec le Tchad et la Libye - son plus important garde-frontière.
Quant à Hilal, il est encore en prison.
Dans le cadre du processus de Khartoum, l'Union européenne a financé le gouvernement soudanais pour contrôler la migration à travers le Sahara, vers la Libye.
Bien que l'UE le nie constamment, de nombreux Soudanais pensent que cela a permis aux RSF de contrôler la frontière, de prélever des pots-de-vin, des taxes et des rançons - et de faire leur part du trafic également.
Crédit photo,Getty Images
Dubaï est la destination de la quasi-totalité de l'or soudanais, officiel ou de contrebande.
Mais les contacts de Hemeti avec les Émirats Arabes Unis (EAU) sont rapidement devenus plus que commerciaux.
En 2015, le gouvernement soudanais a accepté d'envoyer un bataillon de forces régulières pour servir dans les forces de la coalition saoudienne-émiratie au Yémen - son commandant était le général Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, actuellement président du Conseil militaire transitoire au pouvoir.
Mais quelques mois plus tard, les EAU ont conclu un accord parallèle avec Hemeti pour envoyer une force beaucoup plus importante de combattants des RSF au sud du Yémen et dans la plaine de Tahama - qui comprend la ville portuaire d'Hodeidah, théâtre de combats féroces l'année dernière.
Hemeti a également fourni des unités pour aider à garder la frontière saoudienne avec le Yémen.
Lire aussi :
Le Yemen menacé par la famine
Des frappes aériennes contre la province de Hodeida au Yemen
A cette époque, la force des RSF avait décuplé.
Sa structure de commandement n'a pas changé : tous ses éléments sont des Arabes du Darfour, ses généraux partageant le nom de Dagolo.
Avec 70 000 hommes et plus de 10 000 camionnettes armées, les RSF sont devenus l'infanterie de facto du Soudan, la seule force capable de contrôler les rues de la capitale, Khartoum, et d'autres villes.
Grâce à l'or et à l'activité de ses mercenaire, Hemeti en est venu à contrôler le plus grand "budget politique" du Soudan - de l'argent qui peut être dépensé pour la sécurité privée, ou toute autre activité, sans avoir à rendre des comptes.
Dirigée par ses proches, la société Al-Junaid était devenue un vaste conglomérat couvrant l'investissement, l'exploitation minière, le transport, la location de voitures et la sidérurgie.
Lorsque M. Bashir a été évincé en avril, Hemeti était l'un des hommes les plus riches du Soudan - probablement avec plus d'argent que tout autre homme politique - et se trouvait au centre d'un réseau de népotisme, d'accords secrets de sécurité et de paiements politiques.
Il n'est pas surprenant qu'il ait rapidement pris la place de son mécène tombé au champ d'honneur.
Hemeti a agi rapidement.
Chaque semaine, il est apparu dans les journaux, remettant de l'argent à la police pour la ramener dans la rue, aux électriciens pour rétablir les services ou aux enseignants pour qu'ils retournent dans les salles de classe.
Il distribuait des voitures aux chefs tribaux.
A regarder :
Alors que la force de maintien de la paix de l'ONU et de l'Union africaine se retirait au Darfour, les RSF ont pris le contrôle de leurs camps - jusqu'à ce que l'ONU mette un terme au retrait.
Hemeti déclare qu'il a augmenté son contingent de RSF au Yémen et qu'il a envoyé une brigade en Libye pour combattre aux côtés du général Khalifa Haftar, vraisemblablement sur les rangs des EAU, mais aussi pour gagner la faveur de l'Egypte qui soutient également l'armée nationale libyenne autoproclamée du général Haftar.
M. Hemeti a également signé un accord avec une firme canadienne de relations publiques pour peaufiner son image et lui bâtir un réseau de relations en Russie et aux États-Unis.
Hemeti et les RSF sont en quelque sorte des personnages familiers de l'histoire de la vallée du Nil.
Au XIXe siècle, les mercenaires flibustiers ont traversé le Soudan, le Soudan du Sud, le Tchad et la République Centrafricaine, jurant publiquement allégeance au khédive d'Égypte, mais aussi en établissant et dirigeant leurs propres empires privés.
D'autre part, Hemeti est un phénomène du 21ème siècle : un entrepreneur politico-militaire, dont l'empire d'affaires paramilitaire dépasse les frontières territoriales et transgresse les lois.
Aujourd'hui, ce commerçant et milicien semi-lettré est plus puissant que tout général de l'armée ou chef civil au Soudan.
Son organisation est plus dynamique que toutes les institutions fragiles d'un gouvernement civil.
Alex de Waal est directeur exécutif de la World Peace Foundation à la Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy de la Tufts University.
A regarder:
©2024 BBC. La BBC n'est pas responsable du contenu des sites externes.Découvrez notre approche en matière de liens externes.

Title: Sudan paramilitaries 'torture' civilian to death: doctors | Pulse Ghana
Paramilitary men beat and tortured to death a civilian in Sudan's war-torn Darfur region, a doctors committee linked to the country's protest movement said Tuesday.
The civilian died on Monday in El-Daen, in East Darfur state, after members of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) clashed with youths accused of stealing mobile phones, the committee said on its Facebook page.
"Members from Al-Janjaweed (RSF) militia beat and tortured a number of youths... on allegations that the youths had stolen a mobile phone," it said.
"One youth passed away due to torture by Al-Janjaweed," it said, referring to the RSF which has its origins in the militia that fought ethnic African rebels in Darfur during a civil war that broke out in 2003.
Witnesses AFP contacted by telephone backed up the claims of the doctors committee.
Two witnesses said an RSF unit had arrested five youths -- accusing them of stealing mobile phones from their base -- and took them outside town, where they tortured them, before throwing them into the street. One of the victims allegedly died, they said.
After the victim was buried, town residents converged on the RSF base and torched it, while other RSF personnel arrested the unit responsible, the two witnesses said.
The RSF spokesman was unavailable for comment.
The doctors' committee alleged a total of six civilians have died over the past three days at the hands of the RSF, including four members of a family run over by a vehicle driven by a paramilitary unit in Omdurman, the twin city of Khartoum.
The sixth person was killed by gunfire in El-Souki, in the southeastern state of Sinnar, as residents protested against the RSF, demanding they leave town, according to the doctors committee and witnesses.
"The continuation of the barbarity and tampering with civilians' safety daily by Janjaweed (RSF) militias, coupled with not holding them accountable under any law or code of ethics, prove that the Transitional Military Council protects these militias," the committee said.
On Monday, scores of protesters demonstrated in parts of the capital, including at night, against the killing of the civilian in El-Souki.
Protesters and rights groups also accuse RSF personnel of carrying out a brutal raid on a protest camp outside military headquarters in Khartoum on June 3 that left dozens dead and hundreds wounded.
RSF commander Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, the deputy chief of Sudan's ruling military council, has portrayed the allegations as part of an attempt to distort the image of his paramilitary force.
Welcome to the Pulse Community! We will now be sending you a daily newsletter on news, entertainment and more.   Also join us across all of our other channels - we love to be connected!
Eyewitness? Submit your stories now via social or:
Email:eyewitness@pulse.com.gh

Title: The ruthless gold mercenaries who run Sudan – Nehanda Radio

Welcome, Login to your account.
Recover your password.
A password will be e-mailed to you.
Nehanda Radio - Zimbabwe News and Internet Radio
The Rapid Support Forces (RSF) have been accused of widespread abuses in Sudan, including the 3 June massacre in which more than 120 people were reportedly killed, with many of the dead dumped in the River Nile. Sudan expert Alex de Waal charts their rise.
The RSF are now the real ruling power in Sudan. They are a new kind of regime: a hybrid of ethnic militia and business enterprise, a transnational mercenary force that has captured a state.
Their commander is General Mohamed Hamdan “Hemeti” Dagolo, and he and his fighters have come a long way since their early days as arag-tag Arab militia widely denigrated as the “Janjaweed”.
The RSF was formally established by decree of then-President Omar al-Bashir in 2013. But their core of 5,000 militiamen had been armed and active long before then.
Their story begins in 2003, when Mr Bashir’s government mobilised Arab herders to fight against black African insurgents in Darfur.
The core of the Janjaweed were camel-herding nomads from the Mahamid and Mahariya branches of the Rizeigat ethnic group of northern Darfur and adjoining areas of Chad – they ranged across the desert edge long before the border was drawn.
During the 2003-2005 Darfur war and massacres, the most infamous Janjaweed leader was Musa Hilal, chief of the Mahamid.
As these fighters proved their bloody efficacy, Mr Bashir formalised them into a paramilitary force called the Border Intelligence Units.
One brigade, active in southern Darfur, included a particularly dynamic young fighter, Mohamed Dagolo, known as “Hemeti” because of his baby-faced looks – Hemeti being a mother’s endearing term for “Little Mohamed”.
A school dropout turned small-time trader, he was a member of the Mahariya clan of the Rizeigat. Some say that his grandfather was a junior chief when they resided in Chad.
A crucial interlude in Hemeti’s career occurred in 2007, when his troops became discontented over the government’s failure to pay them.
They felt they had been exploited – sent to the frontline, blamed for atrocities, and then abandoned.
Hemeti and his fighters mutinied, promising to fight Khartoum “until judgement day”, and tried to cut a deal with the Darfur rebels.
A documentary shot during this time, called Meet the Janjaweed, shows him recruiting volunteers from Darfur’s black African Fur ethnic group into his army, to fight alongside his Arabs, their former enemies.
Although Hemeti’s commanders are all from his own Mahariya clan, he has been ready to enlist men of all ethnic groups. On one recent occasion the RSF absorbed a breakaway faction of the rebel Sudan Liberation Army (SLA) – led by Mohamedein Ismail “Orgajor”, an ethnic Zaghawa – another Darfur community which had been linked to the rebels.
Hemeti went back to Khartoum when he was offered a sweet deal: back pay for his troops, ranks for his officers (he became a brigadier general – to the chagrin of army officers who had gone to staff college and climbed the ranks), and a handsome cash payment.
His troops were put under the command of the National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS), at that time organising a proxy war with Chad.
Some of Hemeti’s fighters, serving under the banner of the Chadian opposition, fought their way as far as the Chadian capital, N’Djamena, in 2008.
Meanwhile, Hemeti fell out with his former master, Hilal – their feud was to be a feature of Darfur for 10 years. Hilal was a serial mutineer, and Mr Bashir’s generals found Hemeti more dependable.
In 2013, a new paramilitary force was formed under Hemeti and called the RSF.
The army chief of staff did not like it – he wanted the money to go to strengthening the regular forces – and Mr Bashir was worried about putting too much power in the hands of NISS, having just fired its director for allegedly conspiring against him.
So the RSF was made answerable to Mr Bashir himself – the president gave Hemeti the nickname “Himayti”, meaning “My Protector”.
Training camps were set up near the capital, Khartoum. Hundreds of Land Cruiser pick-up trucks were imported and fitted out with machine guns.
RSF troops fought against rebels in South Kordofan – they were undisciplined and did not do well – and against rebels in Darfur, where they did better.
Hemeti’s rivalry with Hilal intensified when gold was discovered at Jebel Amir in North Darfur state in 2012.
Sudan’s ex-leader Omar al-Bashir moved to…
Sudan civil war: Two Darfur rebel groups join army in fight…
Sudan Conflict: Army loses control of Nyala in Darfur to RSF…
Sudanese govt condemns raid on Zim embassy by paramilitary…
Coming at just the moment when Sudan was facing an economic crisis because South Sudan had broken away, taking with it 75% of the country’s oil, this seemed like a godsend.
But it was more of a curse. Tens of thousands of young men flocked to a remote corner of Darfur in a latter-day gold rush to try their luck in shallow mines with rudimentary equipment.
Some struck gold and became rich, others were crushed in collapsing shafts or poisoned by the mercury and arsenic used to process the nuggets.
Hilal’s militiamen forcibly took over the area, killing more than 800 people from the local Beni Hussein ethnic group, and began to get rich by mining and selling the gold.
Some gold was sold to the government, which paid above the market price in Sudanese money because it was so desperate to get its hands on gold that it could sell on in Dubai for hard currency.
Meanwhile some gold was smuggled across the border to Chad, where it was profitably exchanged in a racket involving buying stolen vehicles and smuggling them back into Sudan.
In the desert markets of Tibesti in northern Chad, a 1.5kg (3.3lb) of unwrought gold was bartered for a 2015 model Land Cruiser, probably stolen from an aid agency in Darfur, which was then driven back to Darfur, fitted out with hand-painted licence plates and resold.
By 2017, gold sales accounted for 40% of Sudan’s exports. And Hemeti was keen to control them.
He already owned some mines and had set up a trading company known as al-Junaid. But when Hilal challenged Mr Bashir one more time, denying the government access to Jebel Amir’s mines, Hemeti’s RSF went on the counter-attack.
In November 2017, his forces arrested Hilal, and the RSF took over Sudan’s most lucrative gold mines.
Hemeti overnight became the country’s biggest gold trader and – by controlling the border with Chad and Libya – its biggest border guard. Hilal remains in prison.
Under the Khartoum Process, the European Union funded the Sudanese government to control migration across the Sahara to Libya.
Although the EU consistently denies it, many Sudanese believe that this gave license to the RSF to police the border, extracting bribes, levies and ransoms – and doing its share of trafficking too.
Dubai is the destination for almost all of Sudan’s gold, official or smuggled. But Hemeti’s contacts with the UAE soon became more than just commercial.
In 2015, the Sudanese government agreed to send a battalion of regular forces to serve with the Saudi-Emirati coalition forces in Yemen – its commander was Gen Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, now chair of the ruling Transitional Military Council.
But a few months later, the UAE struck a parallel deal with Hemeti to send a much larger force of RSF fighters, for combat in south Yemen and along the Tahama plain – which includes the port city of Hudaydah,the scene of fierce fighting last year.
Hemeti also provided units to help guard the Saudi Arabian border with Yemen.
By this time, the RSF’s strength had grown tenfold. Its command structure didn’t change: all are Darfurian Arabs, its generals sharing the Dagolo name.
With 70,000 men and more than 10,000 armed pick-up trucks, the RSF became Sudan’s de facto infantry, the one force capable of controlling the streets of the capital, Khartoum, and other cities.
Through gold and officially sanctioned mercenary activity, Hemeti came to control Sudan’s largest “political budget” – money that can be spent on private security, or any activity, without needing to give an account.
Run by his relatives, the Al-Junaid company had become a vast conglomerate covering investment, mining, transport, car rental, and iron and steel.
By the time Mr Bashir was ousted in April, Hemeti was one of the richest men in Sudan – probably with more ready cash than any other politician – and was at the centre of a web of patronage, secret security deals, and political payoffs. It is no surprise that he moved swiftly to take the place of his fallen patron.
Hemeti has moved fast, politically and commercially.
Every week he is seen in the news, handing cash to the police to get them back on the streets, to electric workers to restore services, or to teachers to have them return to the classrooms. He handed out cars to tribal chiefs.
As the UN-African Union peacekeeping force drew down in Darfur, the RSF took over their camps – until the UN put a halt to the withdrawal.
Hemeti says he has increased his RSF contingent in Yemen and has despatched a brigade to Libya to fight alongsidethe rogue general Khalifa Haftar, presumably on the UAE payroll, but also thereby currying favour with Egypt which also backs Gen Haftar’s self-styled Libyan National Army.
Hemeti has also signed a deal with a Canadian public relations firm to polish his image and gain him political access in Russia and the US.
Hemeti and the RSF are in some ways familiar figures from the history of the Nile Valley. In the 19th Century, mercenary freebooters ranged across what are now Sudan, South Sudan, Chad, and the Central African Republic, publicly swearing allegiance to the Khedive of Egypt but also setting up and ruling their own private empires.
Yet in other ways Hemeti is a wholly 21st Century phenomenon: a military-political entrepreneur, whose paramilitary business empire transgresses territorial and legal boundaries.
Today, this semi-lettered market trader and militiaman is more powerful than any army general or civilian leader in Sudan. The political marketplace he commands is more dynamic than any fragile institutions of civilian government.
Alex de Waal is the executive director of the World Peace Foundation at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University.
Prev Post
Afcon 2019 top scorer Ighalo calls time on Nigeria career
Next Post
Wife gave builder £600k inheritance to hide it from husband in divorce – then he fled UK
Sudan’s ex-leader Omar al-Bashir moved to ‘secure military site’…
Sudan civil war: Two Darfur rebel groups join army in fight against RSF
Sudan Conflict: Army loses control of Nyala in Darfur to RSF paramilitary
Sudanese govt condemns raid on Zim embassy by paramilitary forces
Sudan conflict: West Darfur governor killed after genocide claim
Sudan conflict: Army fights to keep Wadi Saeedna airbase, residents say
Latest Articles
Reality TV star Khanyi Mbau ‘buys’ new face, criticised for…
Chief Seke dragged to court over ‘2030…
FC Cincinnati defender Teenage Hadebe vows to ‘give my…
Judge orders release of Wadyajena vehicles, says ZACC case…
VIDEO: Chiyangwa denies grabbing land amidst dispute with…
Most Commented Today
Reality TV star Khanyi Mbau ‘buys’ new face, criticised for…
Harare City Council wastes US$11m on lavish weekly workshops
Mnangagwa plot to extend term limit sparks constitutional…
Scott Sakupwanya’s Betterbrands Gold now official…
13k women and children … Doek and Slay boasts of record…
Reality TV star Khanyi Mbau ‘buys’ new face, criticised for…
Chief Seke dragged to court over ‘2030…
FC Cincinnati defender Teenage Hadebe vows to ‘give my…
Judge orders release of Wadyajena vehicles, says ZACC case…
VIDEO: Chiyangwa denies grabbing land amidst dispute with…
Declassified documents reveal alleged breach of CIA…
Editorial:[email protected]Advertising:[email protected]Whatsapp: +447748665050
Welcome, Login to your account.
Recover your password.
A password will be e-mailed to you.
You must belogged into post a comment.

Title: Home | Monitor
The directive follows concerns raised by MPs from Greater Northern region about the state of road networks and infrastructure, particularly the delays in the Karuma Bridge project
The judge's order is intended to facilitate the defense team's cross-examination of forensic scientist Andrew Kizimula Mubiru, scheduled to begin on September 10
The government plans to increase funding to all its schools and ensure parents do not make any financial contributions
The nine-time champions have had to endure a season dominated by a series of problems.
Cheptegei expressed his gratitude, saying he is excited about building partnerships with supportive organisations
Concentrating government offices and activities in Kampala has created a property asset bubble in the capital that is at odds with how congested and unliveable the city has become
Much as the rear seats were designed to accommodate three passengers, they can comfortably take on four passengers and each will have enough legroom, even for long distances
Several subscribers have cancelled their pay TV subscriptions in favour of streaming services that provide on-demand content, flexible viewing options, and budget-friendly subscription plans.
When he met Aline Kalisa, Rogers Murungi was going through a divorce with the mother of his two children
Like someone had opened the floodgates, other symptoms followed on the heels of her snapping knees. The worst were the hot flashes
Manchester United forward Alejandro Garnacho has the potential to become a world class player, manager Erik ten Hag has said
Nation Media Group © 2024
It's free!
Access the best of Monitor's Independent Journalism

Title: Bashir party HQ now home to Sudan paramilitaries - New Vision Official
Jul 31, 2019
The brown, brick building looming over Khartoum was a potent symbol of the regime of former president Omar al-Bashir. But now it is home to Sudan's feared paramilitary forces.The Rapid Support Forces (RSF), which sprang out of the notorious Janjaweed militia and helped oust the long-time leader in April, have moved in.Unfinished and flanked by a yellow crane, the high-walled building, once the headquarters of Bashir's National Congress Party, towers at least nine stories over a city neighbourhood close to Khartoum airport.Inside members of the RSF can be seen coming and going, and every time the gates to the complex swing open, their heavily-armed vehicles can be spotted inside.As Bashir's three-decade rule was toppled on April 11 amid a wave of determined protests, the RSF moved into many of the buildings which had belonged to his party.The ruling military council which seized power after Bashir's ouster, set up a committee to control the seizure of the party's goods and properties."The property of the party against which the Sudanese revolted has now fallen into the hands of the force they hate," said renowned Sudanese journalist Faisal Mohammed Saleh.It was also paradoxical that "this force, which was set up by Bashir to protect him, aided in his fall and is now occupying the headquarters of his party".Led by General Mohamed Hamdan Daglo, now the deputy chief of the military council, the RSF is said to include elements of the Janjaweed militia, accused by rights groups of committing war crimes in the Darfur region during Bashir's rule."I have seen with my own eyes the atrocities committed by the Janjaweed militias in Darfur, they killed and displaced the people there," said Mahmoud, who gave only his first name for reasons of security."But the orders were given by the government of Bashir," said Mahmoud, who hails from Darfur but now resides in Khartoum.'Tribal militias'Some RSF members including senior officers are also alleged to have brutally broken up a weeks-long sit-in in June outside the army HQ in Khartoum, in which at least 127 protesters died, according to a doctors committee linked to the protest movement.RSF chief Daglo denies responsibility, saying the accusations are aimed at tainting the image of his force.But an official inquiry concluded last week that eight security officers, including three from the RSF, were involved and they are set to be charged with crimes against humanity.Conceived some 10 years ago, Bashir's party HQ in Khartoum remains a building site, although all work appears to have been stopped for the time being.A decade ago his party decided that an imposing building was to be constructed in the capital, with a senior official at the time saying it would be funded by China.Beijing was a key ally of Bashir's regime and a partner in exploiting the country's oil riches, until the secession of South Sudan in 2011 saw oil revenues dry up.By taking over the party's sites, "the RSF is trying to consolidate its power over the country", said one businessman, who asked not to be named.But the force which includes ill-trained tribesmen "is struggling to gain the trust of the Sudanese", he added."The Sudanese see them as tribal militias who are trying to impose their authority by force."
The brown, brick building looming over Khartoum was a potent symbol of the regime of former president Omar al-Bashir. But now it is home to Sudan's feared paramilitary forces.The Rapid Support Forces (RSF), which sprang out of the notorious Janjaweed militia and helped oust the long-time leader in April, have moved in.Unfinished and flanked by a yellow crane, the high-walled building, once the headquarters of Bashir's National Congress Party, towers at least nine stories over a city neighbourhood close to Khartoum airport.Inside members of the RSF can be seen coming and going, and every time the gates to the complex swing open, their heavily-armed vehicles can be spotted inside.As Bashir's three-decade rule was toppled on April 11 amid a wave of determined protests, the RSF moved into many of the buildings which had belonged to his party.The ruling military council which seized power after Bashir's ouster, set up a committee to control the seizure of the party's goods and properties."The property of the party against which the Sudanese revolted has now fallen into the hands of the force they hate," said renowned Sudanese journalist Faisal Mohammed Saleh.It was also paradoxical that "this force, which was set up by Bashir to protect him, aided in his fall and is now occupying the headquarters of his party".Led by General Mohamed Hamdan Daglo, now the deputy chief of the military council, the RSF is said to include elements of the Janjaweed militia, accused by rights groups of committing war crimes in the Darfur region during Bashir's rule."I have seen with my own eyes the atrocities committed by the Janjaweed militias in Darfur, they killed and displaced the people there," said Mahmoud, who gave only his first name for reasons of security."But the orders were given by the government of Bashir," said Mahmoud, who hails from Darfur but now resides in Khartoum.'Tribal militias'Some RSF members including senior officers are also alleged to have brutally broken up a weeks-long sit-in in June outside the army HQ in Khartoum, in which at least 127 protesters died, according to a doctors committee linked to the protest movement.RSF chief Daglo denies responsibility, saying the accusations are aimed at tainting the image of his force.But an official inquiry concluded last week that eight security officers, including three from the RSF, were involved and they are set to be charged with crimes against humanity.Conceived some 10 years ago, Bashir's party HQ in Khartoum remains a building site, although all work appears to have been stopped for the time being.A decade ago his party decided that an imposing building was to be constructed in the capital, with a senior official at the time saying it would be funded by China.Beijing was a key ally of Bashir's regime and a partner in exploiting the country's oil riches, until the secession of South Sudan in 2011 saw oil revenues dry up.By taking over the party's sites, "the RSF is trying to consolidate its power over the country", said one businessman, who asked not to be named.But the force which includes ill-trained tribesmen "is struggling to gain the trust of the Sudanese", he added."The Sudanese see them as tribal militias who are trying to impose their authority by force."


Title: How US arms supplies to Saudi Arabia threatens Sudan’s hard-won peace · Global Voices
Stay up to date about Global Voices and our mission. See ourPrivacy Policyfor details.Newsletter powered by Mailchimp (Privacy PolicyandTerms).
See all those languages up there? We translate Global Voices stories to make the world's citizen media available to everyone.
Photos (clockwise from left): Sudanese protestors in April 2019 byM. Saleh(CC BY-SA 4.0); map highlighting Saudi Arabia in green and Sudan in orange byPlanespotterA320(Public domain via Wikimedia Commons); Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir and King Abdulla of Saudi Arabia attend the opening session of the Arab Summit in Qatar (byTribes of the World(CC BY-SA 2.0).
By Mohamed Suliman
On June 3, 2019, thousands of Sudanese protesters continued pro-democracy protests demanding civilian rule in Sudan, armed with nothing but peaceful disobedience. In contrast, the Rapid Support Forces (RSF), acting on behalf of the Transitional Military Council (TMC) temporarily in charge of Sudan, were ready to shoot and kill on that fateful.
Around the same time that month,the United States Senate voted to block sending $8 million worth of arms to Saudi Arabia—a block US President Donald Trump has said he intends toveto.
Saudi Arabia strongly supports the RSF. RSF leader Mohamed Daglo is a trusted friend and an ally of Saudi Arabia. In May 2019,Daglo met with the Saudi crown prince Mohammed bin Salmanand assured him of continued cooperation with Saudi Arabia in their ongoing war in Yemen.
The Saudis supply RSF with money and arms, so when the US supports arms deals with Saudi Arabia they’re essentially supporting RSF as well. Saudi Arabia, a strategic ally of the US in the region, has tried to secure gains at the cost of the Sudanese people’s dream.
The Sudanese revolution broke out in December 2018 under the banner of “Fall, That’s All!”. Sudanese citizens demanded the ouster of President Omar Bashir and his regime, which had held power for over 30 years. In mid-April 2019, Bashir was ousted and the TMC took over as Sudan’s de-facto leaders.
On June 3, 2019, the RSF used brutal force to disperse peaceful protesters holding a sit-in and calling for democratic and civilian-led government in Sudan. Initial reports on this massacre confirmed that at least100 people were shot to death, their bodies thrown into the Nile river, andwomen were raped in the streets.
In an attempt to obscure their crimes, the RSF and the TMC shut down theinternet across the country.
The RSF is made up of members from  the notorious “Janjaweed,” well known for their role in atrocities committed in Darfur. International rights organizations have issued several reports about their heinous crimes, including “Men With No Mercy,” by Human Rights Watch. HRW also placed RSF leader Dagloon the “partial list of individuals who should be investigated by the ICC.”
In addition to supporting Sudan’s RSF, Saudi Arabia is also involved in an ongoing war in neighboring Yemen. In 2015, theylaunched a military interventionthere to support the government in its attacks against Houthi rebel groups. The Saudi-backed coalition is made up ofnine countries from the Middle East and Africa, including Sudan, with RSF as an outspoken ally.
Many human rights groups have condemned and criticized thewar in Yemenfor ongoing human rights violations, with 14 million people at risk of starvation. Since 2018,6,872 civilians had been killed and 10,768 wounded, primarily by Saudi-led coalition airstrikes,according to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights.
It is no secret that Sudan’sRSF is recruiting child soldiers to fight in the Yemen war. Daglo assured the Saudi Arabia that Sudanese forces would remain in Yemen to defend the security of Saudi Arabia.
American arms are now in the hands of Saudi crown prince Mohamed bin Salman, who not only orders the killing and torture of journalists such asJamal Khashoggi, and also fully supports a Daglo and his militia who kill protesters, rape women and recruits children as soldiers.
As a Sudanese citizen, I find it really embarrassing that a great nation like the US—that has been built on the principles of freedom and justice for all—keeps sending arms to Saudi Arabia.
I, for one, stand with all the ongoing efforts in the US at all levels to put a halt to the selling of American weapons to Saudi Arabia. This is both a moral and practical stance American people should take in order to maintain their long-term interests with regard to Sudanese citizens.
I have two wishes: That no new massacre will occur in Sudan; and that the US will stop sending arms to Saudis who protect and support a war criminal who will likely prevent my first wish from coming true.
Mohamed Sulimanis a Sudanese citizen living in the U.S. He was one of the coordinators of acampaign that changed the US tech sanctions policy on Sudan, and now tracksChinese companies that export tear gasto the Sudanese regime. He also coordinatinga project to remove the RSF content from the Internet.
The Bridge features personal essays, commentary, and creative non-fiction that illuminate differences in perception between local and international coverage of news events, from the unique perspective of members of the Global Voices community. Views expressed do not necessarily represent the opinion of the community as a whole.All Posts
Global Voicesstands out as one of the earliest and strongest examples of how media committed to building community and defending human rights can positively influence how people experience events happening beyond their own communities and national borders.
Please consider making a donation to help us continue this work.
Donate now
Authors, pleaselog in »
Name (required)
Email (will not be published) (required)
Website
Subscribe to comments on this post via email



Δ
Stay up to date about Global Voices and our mission. See ourPrivacy Policyfor details.Newsletter powered by Mailchimp (Privacy PolicyandTerms).
Global Voices is supported by the efforts of our volunteer contributors, foundations, donors and mission-related services. For more information please read ourFundraising Ethics Policy.
Special thanks to our manysponsors and funders.
Please support our important work:
This site is licensed asCreative Commons Attribution 3.0. Please read ourattribution policyto learn about freely redistributing our workSome Rights Reserved
Stay up to date about Global Voices and our mission. See ourPrivacy Policyfor details.Newsletter powered by Mailchimp (Privacy PolicyandTerms).
Global Voices is supported by the efforts of our volunteer contributors, foundations, donors and mission-related services. For more information please read ourFundraising Ethics Policy.
Special thanks to our manysponsors and funders.
Please support our important work:

Title: Protester shot dead by Sudan paramilitary - News | Khaleej Times
Thu, Aug 29, 2024 | Safar 26, 1446
Published:Sun 14 Jul 2019, 10:05 PM
Last updated:Mon 15 Jul 2019, 12:09 AM
Members of a feared Sudanese paramilitary force shot dead a civilian on Sunday in a town southeast of the capital as angry residents protested against the paramilitaries, witnesses and doctors said.The incident occurred in El Souk in the state of Sinnar when residents of the town rallied demanding that members of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) leave the town, witnesses said."Residents of the town had gathered outside the office of the National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS) to complain about the RSF," a witness said."RSF members deployed and initially started shooting in the air but later they opened fire at residents, killing a man and wounding several other people," said the witness, who declined to be named for security reasons.A committee of doctors linked to the country's umbrella protest movement, the Alliance for Freedom and Change, confirmed the incident.The resident "was killed by gunshot in his head fired by Rapid Support Forces militia," it said in a statement, adding that several other people were wounded.Witnesses said El Souk residents had gone to the NISS office to complain after the RSF raided a youth club on Saturday during a rally held to mourn the deaths of demonstrators killed in a Khartoum sit-in on June 3."During that rally the RSF raided a youth club and beat the youths there," one witness said.The killing occurred with the military council and civilian opposition wrangling over final details of a power-sharing agreement ahead of elections"The spirit of the martyr Anwar Hassan Idris was lifted in the city of al-Suki, Sennar state, after he was wounded by a bullet to the head by the Janjaweed militia," the opposition Sudan Doctors' Committee said in a statement.On Saturday, protesters held rallies in several cities and towns, including in Khartoum, to mourn those killed in a raid on a protest camp on June 3 in the capital.Protesters and rights groups allege that the raid on the sit-in outside the army headquarters in central Khartoum was carried out by members of the RSF.More than 100 demonstrators were killed in the raid on that day when armed men in military fatigues cracked down on protesters who had been camping out there for weeks, doctors close to the protesters have said.RSF commander Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo is the deputy chief of Sudan's ruling military council that seized power after the army's ouster of Omar Al Bashir in April following nationwide protests against his rule.Dagalo has dismissed claims that the RSF was responsible for the deadly June crackdown, saying it was an attempt to distort the image of his force. In Khartoum, negotiators are haggling over the draft of a final constitutional declaration that is to organise a transition period to free elections and civilian rule.
Get news and views from the world of golf delivered to your inbox every Wednesday.
lifestyle
Newer is not always better — that label goes to gizmos that are used properly
lifestyle
lifestyle
'We’ve always loved planning events,' they say
lifestyle
lifestyle
From being afraid of money to being fearless with it, 54-year-old  Ann Marie McQueen explores her ‘rebellious financial streak’
lifestyle
cryptocurrency
This comes as crypto demand continues to grow in the country, with many residents trading in digital currencies and some firms even paying salaries in e-cash
cryptocurrency
aviation
Airlines in the region handled 13.5% of global cargo over the period
aviation
markets
DFM-listed companies’ Q2 profit surges 32% to $6.1b
markets
lifestyle
And help them develop a robust sense of self
lifestyle
tech
Agreements will enable collaborative research to evaluate capabilities of  AI models and risks
tech

Title:  Sudanese man shot dead during protest as sides wrangle over transition | World News - The Indian Express
Paramilitary forces backed by Sudan's ruling military council fired at protesters in the southeastern state of Sennar on Sunday, witnesses said, and one man died of a shot to the head, according to opposition medics.
The killing occurred with the military council and civilian opposition wrangling over final details of a power-sharing agreement ahead of elections after veteran autocrat Omar al-Bashir was toppled in a coup following weeks of mass protests.
"The spirit of the martyr Anwar Hassan Idris was lifted in the city of al-Suki, Sennar state, after he was wounded by a bullet to the head by the Janjaweed militia," the opposition-linked Sudan Doctors' Committee said in a statement.
A number of protesters, who were rallying against the use of violence by the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) to quell demonstrations, were wounded in the incident and some were in critical condition, it said.
In the capital Khartoum, military rulers and a coalition of protesters and opposition groups continued to haggle over the draft of a final constitutional declaration that is to organise a transition period to free elections and civilian rule. (Reuters)
The RSF did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The RSF grew out of Arab militias accused of committing atrocities in the western state of Darfur. The RSF commander, who is also deputy head of the military council, has denied the allegations.
In the capital Khartoum, military rulers and a coalition of protesters and opposition groups continued to haggle over the draft of a final constitutional declaration that is to organise a transition period to free elections and civilian rule.
The two sides had reached a broad agreement on power sharing during a transitional period but were still discussing some details, including the powers of a sovereign council comprised of civilians and military officers.
The Transitional Military Council is also demanding immunity for its members from prosecution in connection with bloodshed committed before the accord.
The two sides were scheduled to meet on Sunday evening, but an opposition leader said his side requested a 48-hour delay for consultations, state news agency SUNA reported. A new meeting is now expected on Tuesday.
The rally in al-Suki, 340 km (201 miles) southeast of Khartoum, was held to protest at violence by the RSF, which is accused of killing at least 128 people in a raid on a protest sit-in in Khartoum on June 3 and in subsequent attacks.
The military council has confirmed at least 61 deaths.
Long-stalled talks between the military council and the opposition Forces for Freedom and Change collapsed after the violent dispersal of the sit-in. But direct talks revived after mediation efforts by the African Union and Ethiopia.
With Leader of Opposition Rahul Gandhi and the Congress pressing for a nationwide caste census, Opposition MPs who are members of a Parliamentary committee on OBC welfare are demanding that the panel discuss the issue at the earliest, and that a member of one of the parties of the ruling NDA agrees with them.

Title: Sudanese refugees found hidden in a truck in Galway City
Three refugees, believed to be Sudanese, were discovered hiding beneath a truck in Galway City on Wednesday.
Read More: We Irish should see ourselves in the desperate US border refugees
RTÉreports that the three men are believed to have traveled to Ireland from France while concealed in a truck that was transporting a band’s equipment to the 'Big Top' tent ahead of the Galway International Arts Festival.
The three men were discovered at about 4 pm on Wednesday, with reports indicating that the men could have been hiding for up to three days. They were subsequently arrested by Mill Street Gardai and were found to be in good health after being assessed.
The Garda National Immigration Bureau (GNIB) is aware of the situation and is processing documentation in connection with the three men.
Read More: Iraqi refugee wins All Ireland hurling medal with Leitrim
On Facebook, one man shared his experience of discovering the three “scared” men:

As most people know I have been part of the arts festival tent crew for years . ..we put the big top up every year and a...
He said: "Everyone who witnessed the fear and shock in the eyes of those young men including the Garda could not be affected by this event."
"We fed them and gave them water and watched as an interpreter gently coaxed information from them."
Galway Dailyreports that Joe Loughnane, of the Galway Anti Racism Network, released a statement confirming that the refugees were “three young men, believed to be of Sudanese origin, and who possibly speak Arabic and French. The lorry they hid on was coming from France.”
Read More: Syrian refugees living in Ireland talk about their loneliness on World Refugee Day
Galway Daily further reports that Sudan has been enduring a period of violent unrest with “barbaric attacks” from the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) / Janjaweed. Last month, an estimated 500 people were killed and 723 people were injured at the hands of the RSF / Janjaweed.
Related:Galway City,Immigration

Title: Outrage in Sudan as official probe shields military leaders from massacre blame | Middle East Eye
An official investigation into the 3 June massacre in Khartoum has provoked outrage in Sudan and brought protesters to the streets, after it cleared the country's rulers of responsibility for an assault on a sit-in protest that killed scores.
In a news conference on Saturday, Fath al-Rahman Saeed, who led an investigation into the 3 June events and was tasked by the public prosecutor, said military officers were responsible for the deadly crackdown and did so without direction from generals in the ruling Transitional Military Council (TMC).
The TMC, Saeed alleged, had not ordered the break-up of the sit-in, but only the dispersal of protesters and criminals from the largely lawless area nearby known as "Colombia".
Saeed said eight army officers have been charged and could face the death penalty for their involvement in the attack.
The head of the investigative committee said a brigadier general, referred to only as A.A.M., mobilised an anti-riot force on the orders of two senior officers, but not members of Sudan's top leadership.
A colonel was subsequently ordered to disperse the sit-in protest outside army headquarters, Saeed said.
"They led the forces... inside the sit-in area and ordered them to get down from their vehicles and whip the protesters," Saeed told reporters.
Some security forces fired at protesters and three officers violated orders by moving forces into the sit-in, he said.
Saeed gave the ranks and initials of eight officers he said had been charged with crimes against humanity, which is punishable by death or life imprisonment under military law. He did not give their full names.
He also confirmed the involvement of the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF), which is widely thought to have carried out the assault and is composed of the feared Janjaweed militias said to be responsible for a slew of human rights abuses in the country’s west and south.
Medics and protest groups have said 127 people were killed and some 400 wounded in the assault, with the health ministry putting the death toll at 61.
Saeed, however, said the investigation found that 87 people were killed and 168 wounded in the attack.
17 of those killed were in the square occupied by protesters and 48 of the wounded were hit by bullets, the committee head said.
The Sudanese Professionals Association (SPA) protest movement and other opposition parties have rejected the report, saying it undermines justice and violates the agreement signed between the TMC and Forces of Freedom and Change opposition alliance last week.
The Sudanese Doctors Association, an opposition group of physicians, also rejected the investigation, describing the report as “fabricated” with nothing to do with the facts recorded by doctors and human rights groups.
'This committee is biased, it’s a unilateral committee formed by the TMC, so it will for sure bring results that cover up the crimes of the TMC general'
- Emad al-Amin, protester
Immediately after Saeed's news conference, thousands of people protested in the streets of Khartoum, including the residential areas of Burri, al-Daim, Arkaweet, al-Sahafa and al-Sitten Street.
The protesters chanted anti-TMC slogans, calling for justice. They closed off many main roads in the Sudanese capital, burning tyres and erecting barricades on the streets.
Emad al-Amin, a protester, told Middle East Eye that they will continue protesting to express their rejection of the committee's results.
“This committee is biased, it’s a unilateral committee formed by the TMC, so it will for sure bring results that cover up the crimes of the TMC generals,” he said.
Roaa Ahmed from the Burri neighbourhood told MEE that the main roads have been closed and the protesters are furious, especially the families of those killed on 3 June.
Awadallah Hassan, from the East Nile neighbourhood, said police have turned to violence in an attempt to quell the protests.
“Two protesters have been wounded in the East Nile area as the police used tear gas and sticks to disperse the protests," he said.
One particular point of contention was Saeed's assertion that the committee had not uncovered any incidents of rape, although the US-based Physicians for Human Rights cited local medics as saying women had their clothes torn off and were raped.
Activists say Sudanese women are reluctant to publicly say they were raped to avoid any social sigma.
The TMC, which took power when former President Omar al-Bashir was deposed in a military coup on 11 April, has previously denied any rape took place.
A leading member of the Sudanese Doctors' Association, Amged Farid, criticised the claim there was no evidence of rape, saying his group and various medical centres began treating cases soon after the crackdown began.
“This report really shames the Sudanese justice system and we believe that it will lead to more escalation in the streets. So we think that the only solution is the formation of an independent committee as agreed earlier by the TMC and the opposition,” he told MEE.
The sit-in outside the military headquarters in the capital Khartoum was a focal point for protests that led to Bashir's ouster, and remained after the coup in an attempt to ensure the military hands power to a civilian administration.
"Some outlaws exploited this gathering and formed another gathering in what is known asthe Colombia area, where negative and illegal practices took place," Saeed said.
"It became a security threat, forcing the authorities to make necessary arrangements to clear the area."
As Sudanese forces cleared the Nile-side area of Colombia days before the 3 June assault, protesters told Middle East Eye they feared the neighbourhood's louche reputation was being used as an excuse to begin clearing the larger sit-in protest nearby. Colombia was cleared two days before the assault on the sit-in outside the military headquarters.
"This report has shocked the Sudanese people and the international community, and proved that we need to reform the entire justice system in the country,” said Ismail al-Taj, an SPA spokesman.
Amid the demonstrations, meanwhile, Sudanese generals and protest leaders who signed a power-sharing agreement held preliminary talks with rebel groups in neighbouring South Sudan on Saturday as part of ongoing peace efforts, AFP reported.
Among those at the meeting were rebel leaders Abdelaziz al-Hilu of South Kordofan state and Malik Agar of Blue Nile state.
The umbrella protest movement on 17 July signed a power-sharing accord with Sudan's generals, which provides for a transitional administration.
Copyright © 2014 - 2023.Middle East Eye. All rights reserved.Only England and Wales jurisdiction apply in all legal matters.
Middle East Eye          ISSN 2634-2456

Title: The Rapid Support Forces and the Escalation of Violence in Sudan - Sudan | ReliefWeb
Sudan
After nearly 6 months of continuous protests, tensions between demonstrators and the Sudanese Transitional Government are mounting. On June 3, the Rapid Support Forces (RSF), opened fire on a peaceful sit-in in Khartoum. This event, in which more than 100 people were reportedly killed, followed weeks of gradually increasing levels of RSF activity. Since the protests began on December 19, 2018, the RSF has been responsible for more reported fatalities and more instances of violence against civilians than the military and police combined. Increasing reliance on the RSF to respond to the largely peaceful protests presents a serious threat to civilians in Sudan. **The RSF’s history of brutality and impunity in Darfur, as well as current reports of infighting between the RSF and other members of the security sector, suggests that the increase in the group’s activities will drive instability in Sudan. **
The RSF is a paramilitary force that was established in 2013 under the Sudanese intelligence bureau, the National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS) (Sudan Tribune, June 11, 2014). The RSF was fashioned out of Janjaweed militias and was assembled in response to anti-government rebel movements in Darfur (DW, June 9, 2019). The RSF has been accused of a myriad of human rights abuses in Darfur and elsewhere (Human Rights Watch, May 8, 2019). In recent years, the RSF was used as a coup-proofing mechanism for President Omar al-Bashir — who was recently forced out of power because of popular demonstrations against his regime (Al Jazeera, June 5, 2019).
As demonstrated below, RSF activity has been sporadic throughout the demonstration period and their activity surged in mid-May. The timing of this surge, nearly a month after al-Bashir left office, likely relates to the jockeying for influence within the Transitional Military Council (TMC) and the conflict between the civilian demonstrators and the TMC (TimesNowNews, May 20, 2019;France24, May 6, 2019). The RSF’s commander and the deputy head of the Transitional Military Council is Hamdan Dagalo (more frequently referred to as “Hemedti”), who many have speculated is angling for influence in post-Bashir Sudan (The Guardian, May 29, 2019).
Though the RSF is a part of the Sudanese security sector, it has demonstrated a different pattern of violence than the Sudanese police and military. More than half of the events in which the RSF have been involved since the protest wave began are instances of violence against civilians. This is compared to 25% of events involving the military (not including events in which the RSF and the military act in joint operations, which are included in the tally for the RSF’s activities) and fewer than 10% of events involving the police. Early June’s activity is an example of this difference in lethal tactics. Of the less than 10 recorded instances of the RSF using excessive force against protestors, many are associated with in total 120 reported fatalities. In comparison, in the nearly 50 instances in which the police and military have used excessive force against protesters, 40 fatalities, or fewer than 1 per event, are reported.  Notably, the RSF also stands accused of a number of instances of sexual violence; during the June 3 crackdown in Khartoum: at least 70 rapes associated with the RSF are reported.
The Rise of the RSF and the Future of Sudan
Hemedti has refused to take responsibility for the RSF’s activities, attributing the violence to “imposter troops among the Rapid Support Forces” (CityNews, June 20, 2019). Yet, the RSF’s violence against civilians in Khartoum echoes the force’s history in Darfur, where the militia is accused of sexual violence, extralegal killing, and other war crimes (Amnesty International, June 11 2019)
The largely peaceful, civilian-led protests were a significant force behind the removal of President al-Bashir, eventually becoming significant enough to convince the country’s elites to turn against the government. Since al-Bashir’s departure, an elite military council (TMC) has taken control of the government. The TMC and the civilian demonstrators have been unable to come to an agreement about timelines for elections and the proportion of transitional government seats that should be allocated to civilians (AlJazeera, June 26, 2019;Voice of America, May 15, 2019).
Another distressing sign for Sudan’s political trajectory are reports that the RSF is engaging in violence against members of the Sudanese military who show solidarity or sympathy for the demonstrators (DW, June 9, 2019). AfricaConfidential reported that “a security source in Khartoum,” relayed that “when some soldiers heard of the RSF and NISS plans to attack civilians at the sit-in, they were told to stay in the barracks and that no arms would be issued to them” (AfricaConfidential, June 14, 2019). Such directives, after previous weeks in which some members of the armed forces displayed solidarity with demonstrators, alludes to the divisions within the TMC. There have been reports of “arrests, detentions or banishments of dissident junior officers” recently (AfricaConfidential, June 14, 2019). Fragmentation within the Sudanese security sector could escalate into civil conflict.
Thus, the activities of the RSF present a two-fold threat to a post-Bashir Sudan. Firstly, the RSF’s violence against civilians imperils the likelihood of continued peaceful protests and suggests that the calls for a civilian-led government will go unheeded. Secondly, the RSF’s targeting of Sudanese military members could trigger a bloody process of influence-jockeying.
Sudan+ 2 more
Sudan
Sudan
Sudan
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Sudan crisis: The ruthless mercenaries who run the country for gold - BBC News
The Rapid Support Forces (RSF) have been accused of widespread abuses in Sudan, including the 3 June 2019 massacre in which more than 120 people were reportedly killed, with many of the dead dumped in the River Nile. Sudan expert Alex de Waal charts their rise.
The RSF are now the real ruling power in Sudan. They are a new kind of regime: a hybrid of ethnic militia and business enterprise, a transnational mercenary force that has captured a state.
Their commander is General Mohamed Hamdan "Hemedti" Dagalo, and he and his fighters have come a long way since their early days as arag-tag Arab militia widely denigrated as the "Janjaweed".
The RSF was formally established by decree of then-President Omar al-Bashir in 2013. But their core of 5,000 militiamen had been armed and active long before then.
Their story begins in 2003, when Mr Bashir's government mobilised Arab herders to fight against black African insurgents in Darfur.
The core of the Janjaweed were camel-herding nomads from the Mahamid and Mahariya branches of the Rizeigat ethnic group of northern Darfur and adjoining areas of Chad - they ranged across the desert edge long before the border was drawn.
During the 2003-2005 Darfur war and massacres, the most infamous Janjaweed leader was Musa Hilal, chief of the Mahamid.
Human rights groups accuse Musa Hilal of leading a brutal campaign in Darfur
As these fighters proved their bloody efficacy, Mr Bashir formalised them into a paramilitary force called the Border Intelligence Units.
One brigade, active in southern Darfur, included a particularly dynamic young fighter, Mohamed Dagalo, known as "Hemedti" because of his baby-faced looks - Hemedti being a mother's endearing term for "Little Mohamed".
A school dropout turned small-time trader, he was a member of the Mahariya clan of the Rizeigat. Some say that his grandfather was a junior chief when they resided in Chad.
A crucial interlude in Hemedti's career occurred in 2007, when his troops became discontented over the government's failure to pay them.
They felt they had been exploited - sent to the frontline, blamed for atrocities, and then abandoned.
Hemedti and his fighters mutinied, promising to fight Khartoum "until judgement day", and tried to cut a deal with the Darfur rebels.
A documentary shot during this time, called Meet the Janjaweed, shows him recruiting volunteers from Darfur's black African Fur ethnic group into his army, to fight alongside his Arabs, their former enemies.
Although Hemedti's commanders are all from his own Mahariya clan, he has been ready to enlist men of all ethnic groups. On one recent occasion the RSF absorbed a breakaway faction of the rebel Sudan Liberation Army (SLA) - led by Mohamedein Ismail "Orgajor", an ethnic Zaghawa - another Darfur community which had been linked to the rebels.
Hemedti went back to Khartoum when he was offered a sweet deal: back pay for his troops, ranks for his officers (he became a brigadier general - to the chagrin of army officers who had gone to staff college and climbed the ranks), and a handsome cash payment.
His troops were put under the command of the National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS), at that time organising a proxy war with Chad.
Some of Hemedti's fighters, serving under the banner of the Chadian opposition, fought their way as far as the Chadian capital, N'Djamena, in 2008.
Meanwhile, Hemedti fell out with his former master, Hilal - their feud was to be a feature of Darfur for 10 years. Hilal was a serial mutineer, and Mr Bashir's generals found Hemedti more dependable.
In 2013, a new paramilitary force was formed under Hemedti and called the RSF.
The army chief of staff did not like it - he wanted the money to go to strengthening the regular forces - and Mr Bashir was worried about putting too much power in the hands of NISS, having just fired its director for allegedly conspiring against him.
So the RSF was made answerable to Mr Bashir himself - the president gave Hemedti the nickname "Himayti", meaning "My Protector".
Training camps were set up near the capital, Khartoum. Hundreds of Land Cruiser pick-up trucks were imported and fitted out with machine guns.
RSF troops fought against rebels in South Kordofan - they were undisciplined and did not do well - and against rebels in Darfur, where they did better.
Hemedti's rivalry with Hilal intensified when gold was discovered at Jebel Amir in North Darfur state in 2012.
Coming at just the moment when Sudan was facing an economic crisis because South Sudan had broken away, taking with it 75% of the country's oil, this seemed like a godsend.
Sudan is one of Africa's biggest gold producers
But it was more of a curse. Tens of thousands of young men flocked to a remote corner of Darfur in a latter-day gold rush to try their luck in shallow mines with rudimentary equipment.
Some struck gold and became rich, others were crushed in collapsing shafts or poisoned by the mercury and arsenic used to process the nuggets.
The warlord who may control Sudan’s future
Are foreign powers exploiting Sudan?
Rape and the revolution: 'They were crying and screaming'
The art fuelling Sudan's revolution
Sudan's violent political crisis explained
The fashion police who are shaving off afros
Hilal's militiamen forcibly took over the area, killing more than 800 people from the local Beni Hussein ethnic group, and began to get rich by mining and selling the gold.
Some gold was sold to the government, which paid above the market price in Sudanese money because it was so desperate to get its hands on gold that it could sell on in Dubai for hard currency.
Meanwhile some gold was smuggled across the border to Chad, where it was profitably exchanged in a racket involving buying stolen vehicles and smuggling them back into Sudan.
Hemedti has loyal supporters outside the capital
In the desert markets of Tibesti in northern Chad, a 1.5kg (3.3lb) of unwrought gold was bartered for a 2015 model Land Cruiser, probably stolen from an aid agency in Darfur, which was then driven back to Darfur, fitted out with hand-painted licence plates and resold.
By 2017, gold sales accounted for 40% of Sudan's exports. And Hemedti was keen to control them.
He already owned some mines and had set up a trading company known as al-Junaid. But when Hilal challenged Mr Bashir one more time, denying the government access to Jebel Amir's mines, Hemedti's RSF went on the counter-attack.
In November 2017, his forces arrested Hilal, and the RSF took over Sudan's most lucrative gold mines.
Hemedti overnight became the country's biggest gold trader and - by controlling the border with Chad and Libya - its biggest border guard. Hilal remains in prison.
Under the Khartoum Process,external, the European Union funded the Sudanese government to control migration across the Sahara to Libya.
Although the EU consistently denies it,external, many Sudanese believe that this gave license to the RSF to police the border, extracting bribes, levies and ransoms - and doing its share of trafficking too.
RSF fighters have fought for Yemen's government in the civil war which is devastating the country
Dubai is the destination for almost all of Sudan's gold, official or smuggled. But Hemedti's contacts with the UAE soon became more than just commercial.
In 2015, the Sudanese government agreed to send a battalion of regular forces to serve with the Saudi-Emirati coalition forces in Yemen - its commander was Gen Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, now chair of the ruling Transitional Military Council.
But a few months later, the UAE struck a parallel deal with Hemedti to send a much larger force of RSF fighters, for combat in south Yemen and along the Tahama plain - which includes the port city of Hudaydah,the scene of fierce fighting last year.
Hemedti also provided units to help guard the Saudi Arabian border with Yemen.
By this time, the RSF's strength had grown tenfold. Its command structure didn't change: all are Darfurian Arabs, its generals sharing the Dagalo name.
With 70,000 men and more than 10,000 armed pick-up trucks, the RSF became Sudan's de facto infantry, the one force capable of controlling the streets of the capital, Khartoum, and other cities.
Through gold and officially sanctioned mercenary activity, Hemedti came to control Sudan's largest "political budget" - money that can be spent on private security, or any activity, without needing to give an account.
Run by his relatives, the Al-Junaid company had become a vast conglomerate covering investment, mining, transport, car rental, and iron and steel.
By the time Mr Bashir was ousted in April, Hemedti was one of the richest men in Sudan - probably with more ready cash than any other politician - and was at the centre of a web of patronage, secret security deals, and political payoffs. It is no surprise that he moved swiftly to take the place of his fallen patron.
Hemedti has moved fast, politically and commercially.
Every week he is seen in the news, handing cash to the police to get them back on the streets, to electric workers to restore services, or to teachers to have them return to the classrooms. He handed out cars to tribal chiefs.
This video can not be played
What happened during the 3 June massacre?
As the UN-African Union peacekeeping force drew down in Darfur, the RSF took over their camps - until the UN put a halt to the withdrawal.
Hemedti says he has increased his RSF contingent in Yemen and has despatched a brigade to Libya to fight alongsidethe rogue general Khalifa Haftar, presumably on the UAE payroll, but also thereby currying favour with Egypt which also backs Gen Haftar's self-styled Libyan National Army.
Hemedti has also signed a deal with a Canadian public relations firm to polish his image and gain him political access in Russia and the US.
Hemedti and the RSF are in some ways familiar figures from the history of the Nile Valley. In the 19th Century, mercenary freebooters ranged across what are now Sudan, South Sudan, Chad, and the Central African Republic, publicly swearing allegiance to the Khedive of Egypt but also setting up and ruling their own private empires.
Yet in other ways Hemedti is a wholly 21st Century phenomenon: a military-political entrepreneur, whose paramilitary business empire transgresses territorial and legal boundaries.
Today, this semi-lettered market trader and militiaman is more powerful than any army general or civilian leader in Sudan. The political marketplace he commands is more dynamic than any fragile institutions of civilian government.
Alex de Waal is the executive director of the World Peace Foundation at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University.
Sudan's political crisis explained
Sudan’s livestream massacre. Video, 00:17:58Sudan’s livestream massacre
The fashion police who are shaving off afros
The warlord who may control Sudan’s future
Return of Sudan's feared Janjaweed
Are foreign powers exploiting Sudan?
Sudan deal sparks hope for 'new era'
'Nubian queen' becomes Sudan protest symbol. Video, 00:01:13'Nubian queen' becomes Sudan protest symbol
Sudan country profile
Africa Today podcasts
Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM
UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue
Teenage boy convicted of 15-year-old Holly Newton's murder
Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges
Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions
Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast
'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009
Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal
'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?'
'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad'
Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow?
Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations
Can counter-protests make things worse?
Following the recent riots, Adam Fleming investigates
Fred again.. captivates the Reading Festival stage
Relive the Grammy winner's first ever UK headline performance
Big and small ways of fighting climate change
Hear about pioneering community initiatives as well as larger solutions
What's life really like with an electronic tag?
Documentary following young people stuck in the prison, tag, prison, tag vicious cycle
© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.Read about our approach to external linking.

Title: Sudan crisis: The ruthless mercenaries who run the country for gold
The Rapid Support Forces (RSF) have been accused of widespread abuses in Sudan, including the 3 June 2019 massacre in which more than 120 people were reportedly killed, with many of the dead dumped in the River Nile. Sudan expert Alex de Waal charts their rise.
The RSF are now the real ruling power in Sudan. They are a new kind of regime: a hybrid of ethnic militia and business enterprise, a transnational mercenary force that has captured a state.
Their commander is General Mohamed Hamdan "Hemedti" Dagalo, and he and his fighters have come a long way since their early days as arag-tag Arab militia widely denigrated as the "Janjaweed".
The RSF was formally established by decree of then-President Omar al-Bashir in 2013. But their core of 5,000 militiamen had been armed and active long before then.
Their story begins in 2003, when Mr Bashir's government mobilised Arab herders to fight against black African insurgents in Darfur.
The core of the Janjaweed were camel-herding nomads from the Mahamid and Mahariya branches of the Rizeigat ethnic group of northern Darfur and adjoining areas of Chad - they ranged across the desert edge long before the border was drawn.
During the 2003-2005 Darfur war and massacres, the most infamous Janjaweed leader was Musa Hilal, chief of the Mahamid.
As these fighters proved their bloody efficacy, Mr Bashir formalised them into a paramilitary force called the Border Intelligence Units.
One brigade, active in southern Darfur, included a particularly dynamic young fighter, Mohamed Dagalo, known as "Hemedti" because of his baby-faced looks - Hemedti being a mother's endearing term for "Little Mohamed".
A school dropout turned small-time trader, he was a member of the Mahariya clan of the Rizeigat. Some say that his grandfather was a junior chief when they resided in Chad.
A crucial interlude in Hemedti's career occurred in 2007, when his troops became discontented over the government's failure to pay them.
They felt they had been exploited - sent to the frontline, blamed for atrocities, and then abandoned.
Hemedti and his fighters mutinied, promising to fight Khartoum "until judgement day", and tried to cut a deal with the Darfur rebels.
A documentary shot during this time, called Meet the Janjaweed, shows him recruiting volunteers from Darfur's black African Fur ethnic group into his army, to fight alongside his Arabs, their former enemies.
Although Hemedti's commanders are all from his own Mahariya clan, he has been ready to enlist men of all ethnic groups. On one recent occasion the RSF absorbed a breakaway faction of the rebel Sudan Liberation Army (SLA) - led by Mohamedein Ismail "Orgajor", an ethnic Zaghawa - another Darfur community which had been linked to the rebels.
Hemedti went back to Khartoum when he was offered a sweet deal: back pay for his troops, ranks for his officers (he became a brigadier general - to the chagrin of army officers who had gone to staff college and climbed the ranks), and a handsome cash payment.
His troops were put under the command of the National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS), at that time organising a proxy war with Chad.
Some of Hemedti's fighters, serving under the banner of the Chadian opposition, fought their way as far as the Chadian capital, N'Djamena, in 2008.
Meanwhile, Hemedti fell out with his former master, Hilal - their feud was to be a feature of Darfur for 10 years. Hilal was a serial mutineer, and Mr Bashir's generals found Hemedti more dependable.
In 2013, a new paramilitary force was formed under Hemedti and called the RSF.
The army chief of staff did not like it - he wanted the money to go to strengthening the regular forces - and Mr Bashir was worried about putting too much power in the hands of NISS, having just fired its director for allegedly conspiring against him.
So the RSF was made answerable to Mr Bashir himself - the president gave Hemedti the nickname "Himayti", meaning "My Protector".
Training camps were set up near the capital, Khartoum. Hundreds of Land Cruiser pick-up trucks were imported and fitted out with machine guns.
RSF troops fought against rebels in South Kordofan - they were undisciplined and did not do well - and against rebels in Darfur, where they did better.
Hemedti's rivalry with Hilal intensified when gold was discovered at Jebel Amir in North Darfur state in 2012.
Coming at just the moment when Sudan was facing an economic crisis because South Sudan had broken away, taking with it 75% of the country's oil, this seemed like a godsend.
But it was more of a curse. Tens of thousands of young men flocked to a remote corner of Darfur in a latter-day gold rush to try their luck in shallow mines with rudimentary equipment.
Some struck gold and became rich, others were crushed in collapsing shafts or poisoned by the mercury and arsenic used to process the nuggets.
Hilal's militiamen forcibly took over the area, killing more than 800 people from the local Beni Hussein ethnic group, and began to get rich by mining and selling the gold.
Some gold was sold to the government, which paid above the market price in Sudanese money because it was so desperate to get its hands on gold that it could sell on in Dubai for hard currency.
Meanwhile some gold was smuggled across the border to Chad, where it was profitably exchanged in a racket involving buying stolen vehicles and smuggling them back into Sudan.
In the desert markets of Tibesti in northern Chad, a 1.5kg (3.3lb) of unwrought gold was bartered for a 2015 model Land Cruiser, probably stolen from an aid agency in Darfur, which was then driven back to Darfur, fitted out with hand-painted licence plates and resold.
By 2017, gold sales accounted for 40% of Sudan's exports. And Hemedti was keen to control them.
He already owned some mines and had set up a trading company known as al-Junaid. But when Hilal challenged Mr Bashir one more time, denying the government access to Jebel Amir's mines, Hemedti's RSF went on the counter-attack.
In November 2017, his forces arrested Hilal, and the RSF took over Sudan's most lucrative gold mines.
Hemedti overnight became the country's biggest gold trader and - by controlling the border with Chad and Libya - its biggest border guard. Hilal remains in prison.
Under the Khartoum Process, the European Union funded the Sudanese government to control migration across the Sahara to Libya.
Although the EU consistently denies it, many Sudanese believe that this gave license to the RSF to police the border, extracting bribes, levies and ransoms - and doing its share of trafficking too.
Dubai is the destination for almost all of Sudan's gold, official or smuggled. But Hemedti's contacts with the UAE soon became more than just commercial.
In 2015, the Sudanese government agreed to send a battalion of regular forces to serve with the Saudi-Emirati coalition forces in Yemen - its commander was Gen Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, now chair of the ruling Transitional Military Council.
But a few months later, the UAE struck a parallel deal with Hemedti to send a much larger force of RSF fighters, for combat in south Yemen and along the Tahama plain - which includes the port city of Hudaydah,the scene of fierce fighting last year.
Hemedti also provided units to help guard the Saudi Arabian border with Yemen.
By this time, the RSF's strength had grown tenfold. Its command structure didn't change: all are Darfurian Arabs, its generals sharing the Dagalo name.
With 70,000 men and more than 10,000 armed pick-up trucks, the RSF became Sudan's de facto infantry, the one force capable of controlling the streets of the capital, Khartoum, and other cities.
Through gold and officially sanctioned mercenary activity, Hemedti came to control Sudan's largest "political budget" - money that can be spent on private security, or any activity, without needing to give an account.
Run by his relatives, the Al-Junaid company had become a vast conglomerate covering investment, mining, transport, car rental, and iron and steel.
By the time Mr Bashir was ousted in April, Hemedti was one of the richest men in Sudan - probably with more ready cash than any other politician - and was at the centre of a web of patronage, secret security deals, and political payoffs. It is no surprise that he moved swiftly to take the place of his fallen patron.
Hemedti has moved fast, politically and commercially.
Every week he is seen in the news, handing cash to the police to get them back on the streets, to electric workers to restore services, or to teachers to have them return to the classrooms. He handed out cars to tribal chiefs.
As the UN-African Union peacekeeping force drew down in Darfur, the RSF took over their camps - until the UN put a halt to the withdrawal.
Hemedti says he has increased his RSF contingent in Yemen and has despatched a brigade to Libya to fight alongsidethe rogue general Khalifa Haftar, presumably on the UAE payroll, but also thereby currying favour with Egypt which also backs Gen Haftar's self-styled Libyan National Army.
Hemedti has also signed a deal with a Canadian public relations firm to polish his image and gain him political access in Russia and the US.
Hemedti and the RSF are in some ways familiar figures from the history of the Nile Valley. In the 19th Century, mercenary freebooters ranged across what are now Sudan, South Sudan, Chad, and the Central African Republic, publicly swearing allegiance to the Khedive of Egypt but also setting up and ruling their own private empires.
Yet in other ways Hemedti is a wholly 21st Century phenomenon: a military-political entrepreneur, whose paramilitary business empire transgresses territorial and legal boundaries.
Today, this semi-lettered market trader and militiaman is more powerful than any army general or civilian leader in Sudan. The political marketplace he commands is more dynamic than any fragile institutions of civilian government.
Alex de Waal is the executive director of the World Peace Foundation at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University.
Macklemore says he will not perform in the UAE until it stops "arming and funding the RSF".
After being ravaged by 16 months of civil war, Sudan is now experiencing floods that have killed dozens.
Aid begins to trickle in but it is far too little, too late, says analyst Alex de Waal.
Osman's mother says she left her son studying in Oxford as she flew to her unwell mother in Sudan.
Guernsey's overseas aid office has made a donation of £60,000 to provide relief for people in Sudan.
Copyright 2024 BBC. All rights reserved.TheBBCisnot responsible for the content of external sites.Read about our approach to external linking.


Title: Sudan’s generals should be targeted with global sanctions – The Mail & Guardian
LOGIN



For years, Omar al-Bashir’s government in Sudan had the sole purpose of keeping the ruling party in power.
Its activities ranged from slowly dismantling the military that brought him into power and replacing it with militias, to allocating almost nothing from the national budget towards education.
The slightest perceived threat to power would immediately be quashed, regardless of the adverse effects it would have on civilians.
Other nations took advantage of the government’s paranoia, while civilians carried the brunt of the repercussions.
In recent times, Sudan has become a hub of geopolitical importance, largely due to two factors. Firstly, the Sudanese government has been supplying soldiers to fight in the war in Yemen, according to a report byNew York Timesin 2018 and, secondly, Sudan is used as a route to Europe by African migrants, as reported by witnesses.
These two phenomena have been greatly exploited by the Saudi-led coalition and the European Union, as they have provided Sudanese paramilitary groups and the Sudanese intelligence service with funding, training and weaponry in exchange for the militias’ unscrupulous services. This gave rise to their unchecked power in the country and to their ruling general, Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, commonly known as Hemedti.
TheNew York Timesreported in December 2018 that the Saudi-United Arab Emirates coalition has recruited more than 14 000 Sudanese soldiers for its war in Yemen, including child soldiers as young as 14 years old. The report says that the Saudi-led coalition paid as much as $10 000 to the family of a soldier upon his return home. Many of the child soldiers are recruited from the war-torn Darfur region, in western Sudan, and see fighting in the war as the only way to support their families. Sudanese militiamen who fought on the frontlines in Yemen reported that 40% of their units are made up of child soldiers.
The Rapid Support Forces (RSF) Militia, previously known as Janjaweed, is the perpetrator behind recruiting child soldiers, and is under the command of General Hemedti, who is also currently the face of the Transitional Military Council. In Sudan, military generals have historically pursued power over a civilian-led administration. As such, the Sudanese people are sceptical about whether Hemedti and the Transitional Military Council will relinquish power in terms of the civilian-military power sharing agreement entered into by the council and the civilian-led group, Alliance for Freedom and Change, on July 4 2019.
The Janjaweed are the main perpetrators behind the genocide, ethnic cleansing and mass rape campaign in Darfur, which resulted in the loss of 500 000 lives and the destruction of more than 3 000 villages. Now, under Hemedti’s rule, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates have agreed on the provision of Sudanese soldiers, by Hemedti, to fight in Yemen in exchange for money and political backing.
The Sudanese soldiers have sustained the Saudi-led coalition’s ability to continue the war and they have shielded the Saudis and Emiratis from the casualties that might test the patience of families at home. It is daunting to see that families in Darfur have been driven to sending their children to fight in a foreign war on behalf of the same militia that committed genocide against their people, in order to survive the plight created by the al-Bashir government.
Many of the RSF soldiers themselves are victims of widespread impoverishment and deliberate underdevelopment. This, together with a lack of the rule of law and empowered factional tribalism, has impelled them to join militias and armed groups. This also means that in a future transitional justice process, there will be a need for the recognition of the victimisation of the young men serving in the ranks of the RSF. If Sudan transitions to a civilian-led democracy, perhaps an initiative such as the Truth and Reconciliation Commission may be needed to investigate violations and repatriate victims and families.
The EU has also dirtied its hands by working with Hemedti. Since 2016, the EU has allocated more than $200-million in migration-related funds to Sudan as part of its broader policy to outsource migration control to third countries, despite the fact that the EU itself has accused Sudan of several mass human violations, and the International Criminal Court holds arrest warrants for al-Bashir and other Sudanese generals. The intention is to curb migrants seeking to get to Europe. However, the RSF has consistently used less than savoury means to deter them.
Reports from Eritrean and Ethiopian migrants travelling through Sudan stated that these include torture, rape, being forcibly held in detention centres and being turned away at the border. Furthermore, Human Rights Watch has accused the RSF of colluding with human traffickers and smugglers rather than investigating them. An Oxfam analysis also found that of the total €400-million allocated through the fund, only 3% went towards developing safe and regular routes for migration. The vast bulk was either lost to corruption or spent suppressing local civilian dissidence and developing abusive migration control methods.
The EU circumvents accusations that it is working with Sudan’s oppressive security regime by arguing that it doesn’t fund the government directly; rather it funnels its aid through international organisations, including United Nations agencies. In either case, it is gravely irresponsible of the EU to distribute funds to aid agencies in Sudan without properly ensuring that they do not end up in the pockets of known war criminals such as Hemedti.
However, the EU partners are still willing to work with controversial arms of the Sudanese government. For example, the United Nations’ refugee agency, UNHCR, confirmed to The New Humanitarian that it has provided motorcycles in Kassala to Sudan’s National Intelligence and Security Service — a government spy service responsible for the arrest, torture and detention of human rights activists and the government’s political opponents.
This is a similar stance that the Saudi-led coalition takes towards child soldiers in Yemen. Mohammed bin Salman denies that the Saudi Kingdom belongs on the UN child soldiers recruiters list by instead insisting that the Sudanese government bears the responsibility for violating international law. In either case, the EU and Gulf countries had indirectly given rise to the crimes perpetuated by these militias.
However, it should be noted that the Troika group (the United States, United Kingdom and Norway) have openly condemned the RSF and Transitional Military Council for their role in the June 3 massacre. Although recognising the RSF as a perpetrator of mass human rights abuse is a good first step, Western powers must do more than offer firm words and formal letters to curb the reckless and brutal behaviour of militias in Sudan.
The financial empire underpinning Hemedti’s rise to power — which range from his exports of gold from Jebel Amir in Darfur, to his direct profiteering from the war in Yemen and the abuse of migrants — needs to be targeted by global sanctions. Although the power-sharing agreement looks as if it may have brought an end to the political turmoil for the time being, the Sudanese people are sceptical, saying that the military has not conceded enough ground.
This includes the fact that the council will be led by the military for the first 21 months, followed by 18 months rule by a civilian leader, ending with democratic elections and the military returning to its barracks. Furthermore, both sides will nominate five members to the ruling council. The 11th member is to be jointly nominated. An independent investigation on the June 3 crackdown is also included as part of the power-sharing agreement, though there is little doubt that Sudan’s military carried out the bloody campaign, leading to questions of whether such an inquiry will actually hold the military accountable.
Another major worry for civilians is that the military will not abide by the agreement in handing control to a civilian leader once they have gained control during the first 21 months, as there are few guarantees agreed upon. Another threatening factor is that in the current set of talks with opposition forces, the ruling generals have demanded absolute immunity from prosecution against the violent crimes committed against demonstrators, as well as for the initial 21-month transitional term- which did not appear in the landmark deal. This has been strongly rejected by Sudanese protestors who state that such an agreement will drastically undermine accountability of the TMC.
With the return of the internet in Sudan, a plethora of photographic evidence flooded social media. The BBC managed to compile footage of the June 3 massacre into a documentary and concluded that Sudan’s ruling generals ordered the violent dispersal, placing the blame squarely on the shoulders of the TMC.
Since April 2019, Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Egypt have openly supported the Transitional Military Council, despite its dire human rights track record, because it serves their national interests. If the EU is serious about its commitment to human rights and UN conventions, then it must ramp up the pressure on the council to ensure that it abides by the power-sharing agreement and makes efforts in reforming the RSF and other factionalised militias.
Rather than formal letters of condemnation, the EU needs to sanction the members of the Transitional Military Council responsible for the June 3 massacre and must closely monitor the first 21 months of military rule to support a peaceful transition to a civilian-led government. This will surely enhance the legitimacy of a civilian-led transition in a country long ruled by generals. In addition, the independent investigating body must hold those accountable for their role in transgressing the law and committing violent crimes against peaceful protesters.
Yassin Osman is a Sudanese-South African human rights lawyer, who graduated from the University of KwaZulu-Natal. He is currently working with the Denis Hurley Centre, an NGO in Durban, in securing the rights of the homeless. He will be pursuing a master’s degree in international human rights at the National University of Ireland Galway in September
AboutContactAdvertise
SubscribeNewsletters
WhatsApp ChannelTwitterFacebookYouTubeInstagramLinkedInTikTokThreads
200 Young South AfricansPower Of WomenGreening The Future
Privacy PolicyCookie PolicyEthics & Social Media Policy
Mail & Guardian CareersProperty for sale
© 2024 The Mail & Guardian. All rights reserved.

Title: Bashir party HQ now home to Sudan paramilitaries - JusticeInfo.net
The brown, brick building looming over Khartoum was a potent symbol of the regime of former president Omar al-Bashir. But now it is home to Sudan's feared paramilitary forces.
The Rapid Support Forces (RSF), which sprang out of the notorious Janjaweed militia and helped oust the long-time leader in April, have moved in.
Unfinished and flanked by a yellow crane, the high-walled building, once the headquarters of Bashir's National Congress Party, towers at least nine stories over a city neighbourhood close to Khartoum airport.
Inside members of the RSF can be seen coming and going, and every time the gates to the complex swing open, their heavily-armed vehicles can be spotted inside.
As Bashir's three-decade rule was toppled on April 11 amid a wave of determined protests, the RSF moved into many of the buildings which had belonged to his party.
The ruling military council which seized power after Bashir's ouster, set up a committee to control the seizure of the party's goods and properties.
"The property of the party against which the Sudanese revolted has now fallen into the hands of the force they hate," said renowned Sudanese journalist Faisal Mohammed Saleh.
It was also paradoxical that "this force, which was set up by Bashir to protect him, aided in his fall and is now occupying the headquarters of his party".
Led by General Mohamed Hamdan Daglo, now the deputy chief of the military council, the RSF is said to include elements of the Janjaweed militia, accused by rights groups of committing war crimes in the Darfur region during Bashir's rule.
"I have seen with my own eyes the atrocities committed by the Janjaweed militias in Darfur, they killed and displaced the people there," said Mahmoud, who gave only his first name for reasons of security.
"But the orders were given by the government of Bashir," said Mahmoud, who hails from Darfur but now resides in Khartoum.
- 'Tribal militias' -
Some RSF members including senior officers are also alleged to have brutally broken up a weeks-long sit-in in June outside the army HQ in Khartoum, in which at least 127 protesters died, according to a doctors committee linked to the protest movement.
RSF chief Daglo denies responsibility, saying the accusations are aimed at tainting the image of his force.
But an official inquiry concluded last week that eight security officers, including three from the RSF, were involved and they are set to be charged with crimes against humanity.
Conceived some 10 years ago, Bashir's party HQ in Khartoum remains a building site, although all work appears to have been stopped for the time being.
A decade ago his party decided that an imposing building was to be constructed in the capital, with a senior official at the time saying it would be funded by China.
Beijing was a key ally of Bashir's regime and a partner in exploiting the country's oil riches, until the secession of South Sudan in 2011 saw oil revenues dry up.
By taking over the party's sites, "the RSF is trying to consolidate its power over the country", said one businessman, who asked not to be named.
But the force which includes ill-trained tribesmen "is struggling to gain the trust of the Sudanese", he added.
"The Sudanese see them as tribal militias who are trying to impose their authority by force."
VIDEO in partnership with IFJD

Title: Sudan crisis: Protester 'shot dead' in Sinnar as talks stall - BBC News
A march was held on Saturday to mark 40 days since the killings of pro-democracy campaigners.
A Sudanese protester has been shot dead by members of a feared paramilitary group, pro-opposition doctors say.
The man was shot in the head by members of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) in the south-eastern Sinnar state, during a protest against allegations of RSF brutality, they say.
Neither the RSF nor Sudan's ruling military council has commented.
The shooting comes as the signing of a power-sharing deal agreed earlier this month has once more been delayed.
The military seized power in April following months of street demonstrations against long-time leader Omar al-Bashir but the protest leaders feared that real power remained in the same hands and continued their sit-ins.
Sudan's violent political crisis explained
The warlord who may control Sudan’s future
Are foreign powers exploiting Sudan?
The march in the Sinnar town of al-Suki was called to demand that RSF fighters leave the town, which lies 340 km (201 miles) south-east of the capital, Khartoum.
"RSF members deployed and initially started shooting in the air but later they opened fire at residents, killing a man and wounding several other people," a witness, who declined to be named for security reasons, told the AFP news agency.
On Saturday, thousands of people marched through Khartoum calling for justice for those killed on 3 June, when the RSF attacked a protest camp, reportedly killing at least 128 people - a figure disputed by the military authorities.
Some of the marchers lit candles, while others used the torches on their mobile phones to commemorate the "martyrs", on the 40th day since their deaths, an important milestone in many cultures.
Two men who said they were serving RSF officers have told the BBC that the attack was ordered by the RSF leadership. Their allegations could not be independently verified by the BBC.
This video can not be played
What happened during the 3 June massacre?
The RSF leadership has denied responsibility, and claimed that rogue elements were behind the attack.
The RSF grew out of the Janjaweed militia which was accused of carrying outa genocide in the Darfur region of western Sudan.
The RSF commander, General Mohamed Hamdan "Hemeti" Dagolo, is the vice-president of the military council, seen by many as the real power in the country.
On Saturday, he gave a speech calling for all Sudanese to support the power-sharing deal and warned that without it, there was a risk of Sudan sliding into civil conflict.
Under the deal, the military would head a transitional authority for 21 months, with a civilian figure in charge for the next 18 months, after which elections would be held.
The agreement, brokered by African Union negotiators, also included a pledge to investigate the recent violence.
However, it has still not been signed 10 days after it was agreed, with negotiators reported to still be haggling over the details.
Sudan's political crisis explained
The warlord who may control Sudan’s future
Are foreign powers exploiting Sudan?
Sudan deal sparks hope for 'new era'
Outdoor smoking ban at pubs being considered, says PM
UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue
Teenage boy convicted of 15-year-old Holly Newton's murder
Manatee mum and calf charm wildlife photo judges
Lucy Letby: Questions grow in debate on killer's convictions
Three months into their global cruise, they've not left Belfast
'We witnessed history' - video of Oasis's last gig in 2009
Southport chooses hope over hatred as it tries to heal
'Are we the next Grenfell with our flammable flats?'
'It's a seven-year wait for a knee-op. I'm terrified but have to go abroad'
Are AI-created recipes hard to swallow?
Fury, hope and changing gear with a sword - Ukraine's Paris preparations
Can counter-protests make things worse?
Following the recent riots, Adam Fleming investigates
Fred again.. captivates the Reading Festival stage
Relive the Grammy winner's first ever UK headline performance
Big and small ways of fighting climate change
Hear about pioneering community initiatives as well as larger solutions
What's life really like with an electronic tag?
Documentary following young people stuck in the prison, tag, prison, tag vicious cycle
© 2024 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.Read about our approach to external linking.

Title: Sudan crisis: Protester 'shot dead' in Sinnar as talks stall
A Sudanese protester has been shot dead by members of a feared paramilitary group, pro-opposition doctors say.
The man was shot in the head by members of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) in the south-eastern Sinnar state, during a protest against allegations of RSF brutality, they say.
Neither the RSF nor Sudan's ruling military council has commented.
The shooting comes as the signing of a power-sharing deal agreed earlier this month has once more been delayed.
The military seized power in April following months of street demonstrations against long-time leader Omar al-Bashir but the protest leaders feared that real power remained in the same hands and continued their sit-ins.
The march in the Sinnar town of al-Suki was called to demand that RSF fighters leave the town, which lies 340 km (201 miles) south-east of the capital, Khartoum.
"RSF members deployed and initially started shooting in the air but later they opened fire at residents, killing a man and wounding several other people," a witness, who declined to be named for security reasons, told the AFP news agency.
On Saturday, thousands of people marched through Khartoum calling for justice for those killed on 3 June, when the RSF attacked a protest camp, reportedly killing at least 128 people - a figure disputed by the military authorities.
Some of the marchers lit candles, while others used the torches on their mobile phones to commemorate the "martyrs", on the 40th day since their deaths, an important milestone in many cultures.
Two men who said they were serving RSF officers have told the BBC that the attack was ordered by the RSF leadership. Their allegations could not be independently verified by the BBC.
The RSF leadership has denied responsibility, and claimed that rogue elements were behind the attack.
The RSF grew out of the Janjaweed militia which was accused of carrying outa genocide in the Darfur region of western Sudan.
The RSF commander, General Mohamed Hamdan "Hemeti" Dagolo, is the vice-president of the military council, seen by many as the real power in the country.
On Saturday, he gave a speech calling for all Sudanese to support the power-sharing deal and warned that without it, there was a risk of Sudan sliding into civil conflict.
Under the deal, the military would head a transitional authority for 21 months, with a civilian figure in charge for the next 18 months, after which elections would be held.
The agreement, brokered by African Union negotiators, also included a pledge to investigate the recent violence.
However, it has still not been signed 10 days after it was agreed, with negotiators reported to still be haggling over the details.
Copyright 2024 BBC. All rights reserved.TheBBCisnot responsible for the content of external sites.Read about our approach to external linking.


Title: Bashir party HQ now home to Sudan paramilitaries | Jordan Times
Today,August 29, 2024
29c°/few clouds
ByAFP- Aug 01,2019 - Last updated at Aug 01,2019
Sudanese women carry placards as they protest in the capital Khartoum on Tuesday, a day after teenagers were shot at a rally against shortages of bread and fuel in the town of Al Obeid, about 420km southwest of the capital (AFP photo)
KHARTOUM — The brown, brick building looming over Khartoum was a potent symbol of the regime of former president Omar Al Bashir. But now it is home to Sudan's feared paramilitary forces.
The Rapid Support Forces (RSF), which sprang out of the notorious Janjaweed militia and helped oust the long-time leader in April, have moved in.
Unfinished and flanked by a yellow crane, the high-walled building, once the headquarters of Bashir's National Congress Party, towers at least nine stories over a city neighbourhood close to Khartoum Airport.
Inside members of the RSF can be seen coming and going, and every time the gates to the complex swing open, their heavily-armed vehicles can be spotted inside.
As Bashir's three-decade rule was toppled on April 11 amid a wave of determined protests, the RSF moved into many of the buildings which had belonged to his party.
The ruling military council which seized power after Bashir's ouster, set up a committee to control the seizure of the party's goods and properties.
"The property of the party against which the Sudanese revolted has now fallen into the hands of the force they hate," said renowned Sudanese journalist Faisal Mohammed Saleh.
It was also paradoxical that "this force, which was set up by Bashir to protect him, aided in his fall and is now occupying the headquarters of his party".
Led by Gen. Mohamed Hamdan Daglo, now the deputy chief of the military council, the RSF is said to include elements of the Janjaweed militia, accused by rights groups of committing war crimes in the Darfur region during Bashir's rule.
"I have seen with my own eyes the atrocities committed by the Janjaweed militias in Darfur, they killed and displaced the people there," said Mahmoud, who gave only his first name for reasons of security.
"But the orders were given by the government of Bashir," said Mahmoud, who hails from Darfur but now resides in Khartoum.

'Tribal militias'

Some RSF members including senior officers are also alleged to have brutally broken up a weeks-long sit-in in June outside the army HQ in Khartoum, in which at least 127 protesters died, according to a doctors committee linked to the protest movement.
RSF chief Daglo denies responsibility, saying the accusations are aimed at tainting the image of his force.
Conceived some 10 years ago, Bashir's party HQ in Khartoum remains a building site, although all work appears to have been stopped for the time being.
A decade ago his party decided that an imposing building was to be constructed in the capital.
By taking over the party's sites, "the RSF is trying to consolidate its power over the country", said one businessman, who asked not to be named.
But the force which includes ill-trained tribesmen "is struggling to gain the trust of the Sudanese", he added.
"The Sudanese see them as tribal militias who are trying to impose their authority by force."
KHARTOUM — Feared Sudanese paramilitary commander Mohamed Hamdan Daglo went from a militia chief in war-torn Darfur to the country's second-
KHARTOUM — Integrating a powerful paramilitary force into the army has emerged as the latest stumbling block in Sudan's transition to civili
KHARTOUM — Sudan's army chief Abdel Fattah al-Burhan called on troops Sunday to "end" support for authoritarian leaders as talks begin on mi
Saturday 23 December 2023
Aug 28, 2024
Aug 27, 2024
Aug 27, 2024
Aug 27, 2024
Aug 28, 2024
Aug 27, 2024
Aug 27, 2024
Aug 27, 2024
Aug 27, 2024
Aug 29, 2024
Aug 29, 2024
Aug 28, 2024
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to you each day.
The Jordan Times is an independent English-language daily published by the Jordan Press Foundationsince October 26, 1975. The Jordan Press Foundation is a shareholding company listed on the Amman Stock Exchange.
To send your articles , please do email :[email protected]
call us : +962 6 5600-800
ext. 2392
Copyright © 2024 The Jordan News. All Rights Reserved.Powered By:AccuSolutionsWeb Development & Mobile Applications

Title: Bashir party HQ now home to Sudan paramilitaries | Jordan Times
Today,August 29, 2024
29c°/few clouds
ByAFP- Aug 01,2019 - Last updated at Aug 01,2019
Sudanese women carry placards as they protest in the capital Khartoum on Tuesday, a day after teenagers were shot at a rally against shortages of bread and fuel in the town of Al Obeid, about 420km southwest of the capital (AFP photo)
KHARTOUM — The brown, brick building looming over Khartoum was a potent symbol of the regime of former president Omar Al Bashir. But now it is home to Sudan's feared paramilitary forces.
The Rapid Support Forces (RSF), which sprang out of the notorious Janjaweed militia and helped oust the long-time leader in April, have moved in.
Unfinished and flanked by a yellow crane, the high-walled building, once the headquarters of Bashir's National Congress Party, towers at least nine stories over a city neighbourhood close to Khartoum Airport.
Inside members of the RSF can be seen coming and going, and every time the gates to the complex swing open, their heavily-armed vehicles can be spotted inside.
As Bashir's three-decade rule was toppled on April 11 amid a wave of determined protests, the RSF moved into many of the buildings which had belonged to his party.
The ruling military council which seized power after Bashir's ouster, set up a committee to control the seizure of the party's goods and properties.
"The property of the party against which the Sudanese revolted has now fallen into the hands of the force they hate," said renowned Sudanese journalist Faisal Mohammed Saleh.
It was also paradoxical that "this force, which was set up by Bashir to protect him, aided in his fall and is now occupying the headquarters of his party".
Led by Gen. Mohamed Hamdan Daglo, now the deputy chief of the military council, the RSF is said to include elements of the Janjaweed militia, accused by rights groups of committing war crimes in the Darfur region during Bashir's rule.
"I have seen with my own eyes the atrocities committed by the Janjaweed militias in Darfur, they killed and displaced the people there," said Mahmoud, who gave only his first name for reasons of security.
"But the orders were given by the government of Bashir," said Mahmoud, who hails from Darfur but now resides in Khartoum.

'Tribal militias'

Some RSF members including senior officers are also alleged to have brutally broken up a weeks-long sit-in in June outside the army HQ in Khartoum, in which at least 127 protesters died, according to a doctors committee linked to the protest movement.
RSF chief Daglo denies responsibility, saying the accusations are aimed at tainting the image of his force.
Conceived some 10 years ago, Bashir's party HQ in Khartoum remains a building site, although all work appears to have been stopped for the time being.
A decade ago his party decided that an imposing building was to be constructed in the capital.
By taking over the party's sites, "the RSF is trying to consolidate its power over the country", said one businessman, who asked not to be named.
But the force which includes ill-trained tribesmen "is struggling to gain the trust of the Sudanese", he added.
"The Sudanese see them as tribal militias who are trying to impose their authority by force."
KHARTOUM — Feared Sudanese paramilitary commander Mohamed Hamdan Daglo went from a militia chief in war-torn Darfur to the country's second-
KHARTOUM — Integrating a powerful paramilitary force into the army has emerged as the latest stumbling block in Sudan's transition to civili
KHARTOUM — Sudan's army chief Abdel Fattah al-Burhan called on troops Sunday to "end" support for authoritarian leaders as talks begin on mi
Saturday 23 December 2023
Aug 28, 2024
Aug 27, 2024
Aug 27, 2024
Aug 27, 2024
Aug 28, 2024
Aug 27, 2024
Aug 27, 2024
Aug 27, 2024
Aug 27, 2024
Aug 29, 2024
Aug 29, 2024
Aug 28, 2024
Get top stories and blog posts emailed to you each day.
The Jordan Times is an independent English-language daily published by the Jordan Press Foundationsince October 26, 1975. The Jordan Press Foundation is a shareholding company listed on the Amman Stock Exchange.
To send your articles , please do email :[email protected]
call us : +962 6 5600-800
ext. 2392
Copyright © 2024 The Jordan News. All Rights Reserved.Powered By:AccuSolutionsWeb Development & Mobile Applications