Title: North Darfur restaurateur ‘tortured to death’ after wife beaten by militiamen - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
A North Darfur restaurant owner has allegedly been ‘tortured to death’ by paramilitaries of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) after his wife was beaten until she miscarried.
A North Darfur restaurant owner has allegedly been ‘tortured to death’ by paramilitaries of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) after his wife was beaten until she miscarried.
Relatives claim to Radio Dabanga that Ahmed Nasreldin Adam (37), a restaurant owner at Jebel Amer in North Darfur was tortured to death by members of the Rapid Support militia in their camp on Sunday.
Witnesses told Radio Dabanga that the wife of the deceased clashed with another woman and filed a complaint against her adversary to the RSF who then severely beat her until she miscarried.
They explained that Adam went to the RSF base to enquire about the incident where the militia tortured him to death and then carried his body and threw it at the restaurant.
Witnesses said that the deceased was buried at Ghurra Zawiya on Monday.
Late week, Radio Dabanga reported thatsix detainees in the Saraf Omra Prisonin North Darfur have reportedly been subjected to torture by paramilitaries of the RSF.
Multiple sources told Radio Dabanga that native administration leaders Omda Adam Jarar Nahar (75), Omda Mohamed Yahya Abdallah (70), Abdallah Hammad Ismail (65), and Hussein Adam Jadallah (60) who works as a nurse at the Saraf Omra Hospital, accountant Abdelrahman Adam Jadallah (55), and Ibrahim Ibrahim Deidan (45) were severely tortured inside the prison.
The men were held by members of the SRF, Sudan’s main government militia, last week. Reasons for the detention remain unclear.
In January,a pharmacy employee diedby torture during his detention by agents of the National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS) in Gireida, South Darfur.
Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: Sudan offers concessions paving way for resumption of Darfur peace talks: JEM leader - Sudan Tribune
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
November 1, 2018 (PARIS) – In a significant development paving the way for the resumption of Darfur peace talks, the Sudanese government has agreed to establish a New Independent Implementation Mechanism (NIIM) for a future peace deal, said the leader of the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) on Thursday.
Gibril Ibrahim (AFP)At the end of a three-day meeting in Paris on Tuesday 30 October, the Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF)-led by Minni Minnawi reaffirmed its commitment to a comprehensive and an inclusive political settlement that achieves peace and addressing the root causes of the conflict in the country.
In statements to Sudan Tribune on Thursday, Gibril Ibrahim said that they stressed on the need for a comprehensive solution in a number of meeting recently held in Paris with the National Initiative Committee comprising Hasballah Omer a former national security and intelligence general and his brother Abdel-Aziz Usher.
Also, he said the matter was repeated in a meeting held in Paris on 25 October with Mutlaq Al Qahtani the Qatari Foreign Minister’s Special Envoy for Combating Terrorism and Conflict Resolution.
“During the meetings with the National Initiative Committee, I stressed our seriousness in reaching a comprehensive peace and told them that we do not support the partial agreements which the experience has proved unsuccessful,” he said.
On the meeting held with the Qatari envoy, Gibril explained that he requested to meet Al Qahtani following the meetings of the latter in Khartoum with the Sudanese officials and the head of UNAMID Jeremiah Mamabolo who is also the Joint Chief Mediator for Peace in Darfur.
“We spoke to him about our experience in negotiating with Khartoum. We have said we will not go to negotiate on our own, and we are not against negotiations in Doha,” he said.
According to Gibril the negotiations for peace in Darfur also should include a number of armed groups that have never participated in the negotiations, such as the Sudan Liberation Forces Alliance (SLFA) led by Tahir Abu Bakr Hajar and the Sudan Liberation Movement-Transitional Council (SLM-TC) headed by Hadi Idriss Yahya.
Gibril disclosed that they had received an invitation from the Joint Chief Mediator Mamabolo for a meeting in Addis Ababa on 15-16 November to discuss on the resumption of peace talks to end the 15-year conflict in Darfur.
Also, he unveiled that they had been officially informed of Sudan’s agreement to establish a new independent mechanism to implement any future peace agreement by a diplomat from the Office of the U.S. Special Envoy for Sudan and South Sudan and an envoy from the German institution for mediation, Berghof Foundation.
“During the meetings of the SRF, we met with Olukemi Lombardo Yai of the U.S. State Department and Theodore Murphy of Berghof Foundation who informed us about the agreement of the Sudanese government to establish the NIIM,” he said.
The armed groups in Darfur accepted to negotiate with the Sudanese government on the basis of the Doha Document for Peace in Darfur (DDPD). In return, they asked to be allowed to add any issue to the agenda of talks and requested to establish a NIIM for the peace agreement they would conclude.
Last April, the German foreign ministry and the Berghof Foundation held a meeting between the SLM-MM, JEM and the Sudanese government in Berlin to discuss a pre-negotiation agreement but the government delegation refused the second demand.
Now with this development, the parties would meet in the upcoming week to sign the pre-negotiation agreement. Once they ink this declaration of principles the parties will discuss and sign a cessation of hostilities agreement in Addis Ababa paving the way for peace talks in Doha.
However, no date has been yet determined for the talks. The matter should be discussed with the JCM Mamabolo within two weeks.
Gibril said that the recent contacts conducted by him or the other armed opposition leaders aimed at reaffirming the announced positions of the opposition towards the peace process.
“There is a full coordination between the Sudan Liberation Movement-Minnawi and the Justice and Equality Movement on their positions over the peace talks,” he added.
Furthermore, JEM leader said that these contacts on the peace process in Darfur do not contradict with a holistic solution within the framework of a national dialogue process that includes all the political opposition forces and armed movements in the Two Areas, as provided in the Roadmap agreement.
Pointing to the two-tracks process of the African Union High-Level Implementation Panel (AUHIP), he said that the role of African mediation is limited to the signing of the cessation of hostilities. After what the talks will move to Doha. And when a peace deal is struck intervenes the national dialogue which is supposed to tackle all the national issues.
The deputy leader of the Sudan Call forces regretted that the AUHIP recently proposed to amend the Roadmap Agreement in order to move directly from the peace agreement to the Constitutional Conference.
“Accepting this amendment means ultimately the transfer of national issues such as the restructuring of the state and justice to the peace negotiations,” he underscored.
“So, this will be an obstacle to the success of peace negotiations,” he concluded.
(ST)
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Copyright @ 2024 | Sudan Tribune. All rights reserved.

Title: Eight Darfuri students over four months in detention - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Eight students from Darfur have been held by the security service for more than four months, without charge. They were arrested in September 2017 during a demonstration in Khartoum against the killing of students Abdelbari Jifara and Abdelhadi Kardinal.
Eight students from Darfur have been held by the security service for more than four months, without charge. They were arrested in September 2017 during a demonstration in Khartoum against the killing of students Abdelbari Jifara and Abdelhadi Kardinal.
On September 13 last year, the United Popular Front heldmass speechesagainst the continued detentions of UPF members in Khartoum Bahri market. Several Darfuri students were detained. In the days that followed more studentsheld protestsagainst the detentions.
The UPF is the student faction of the Sudan Liberation Movement (SLM) led by Abdelwahid El Nur. El Nur’s office has condemned the continued arrest and claimed that the detainees are being subjected to torture and beatings in rooms with extremely low temperatures.
The spokesman for the SLM-AW civil office told Radio Dabanga that the students have not been allowed visit by their families so far. He appealed to all human rights organisations to intervene immediately.
The students arrested by the security services are Zakariya Mousa, El Hadi Abdelmunim, Salim Mohamed Mousa, Yasir Abdallah Mohamed, Abdelmalik Mousa, Bashir Yagoub, Adam Zakariya, and Mohamed Abakar.
North Darfur
In Saraf Omra in North Darfur, Hussein Adam Jad, Abdelrahman Adam Jadallah, and Adam Jarrar Nahar have been held in custody by the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) for more than a week.
A witness told this station that said detainees were beaten and tortured by the RSF and that the force, led by Abdelrahman Ahmed Jaleida, denied the detainees any visits by familie members or health services. Last week, the RSF arrested six peopleand beat them, including the three men currently held in detention.
Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: Stolen vehicle returned to Sudan, sugar seized in South Darfur - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
A combined force from the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) and the police in South Darfur managed to return from outside Sudan a vehicle stolen from Nyala more than five months ago.
A combined force from the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) and the police in South Darfur managed to return from outside Sudan a vehicle stolen from Nyala more than five months ago.
Police brigadier Mohamed Siddig confirmed that the double cab vehicle belongs to the Sudanes National Union of Sudanese Youths in the state. It was stolen in October 2017 from Nyala while it was parked in front of the legislative council with the help of the driver of the vehicle who admitted helping in the theft.
He pointed that two of the accused have been arrested while others are still being looked for.
Sugar seized
The security services in South Darfur have seized 50,000 sacks of Kenana sugar prepared to be smuggled abroad.
The Sudan News Agency (SUNA) reported that the sugar had been seized on its way to Um Dukhun to be smuggled to the neighbouring countries.
Dozens oflorry owners and drivers have been arrestedin North and South Darfur in the past couple of weeks, accused of smuggling sugar.
Border smuggling
In Febriary, Sudan's President Omar Al Bashir has instructed the resumption of border trade with neighbouring countries, so as to pave the way for acrackdown on large-scale smuggling of Sudanese goods.
Al Bashir issued his decision while heading the regular meeting of the exchange rate control committee. He issued other directives that would combat the smuggling of gold and other products.
Trade Minister Hatim El Sir said in a press statement afterwards that February 2018 “will see a meeting of state governors, to discuss how to regulate border trade with neighbouring countries”.
Abdelrahman Dirar of the state ministry of finance said that the government’s intention is to make amendments to the Customs Act. This would authorise the confiscation of all smuggled goods, he said in the statement.
Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-08-29 14:55Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: Open Letter Concerning the Crackdown on Peaceful Protests and the Wave of Arbitrary Arrests and Continued Incommunicado Detentions by Sudanese Government Forces | Human Rights Watch

Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
To:
UN Human Rights Committee
UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention;
UN Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression, Mr. David Kaye;
UN Independent Expert on the situation of human rights in the Sudan, Mr. Aristide Nononsi
UN Special Rapporteur on the rights to freedom of peaceful assembly and of association, Ms. Annalisa Ciampi
UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders, Mr. Michel Forst

Honourable Commissioners,
We, the undersigned Sudanese, African and international organisations, write to you in your capacities as Special Procedure mandate holders to draw your attention to the worrying developments concerning the excessive use of force by Sudanese authorities to disperse peaceful protests across Sudan. We urge you to call on the Government of Sudan to respect the peoples’ rights to freedom of assembly, association and expression as guaranteed in international standards and UN treaties ratified by Sudan and refrain from using excessive force to disperse protests.
The Sudanese authorities’ reaction to the recent January 2018 protests is contrary to Sudan’s commitment to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms enshrined in regional and international treaties to which it is party. Since 7 January, the authorities, including the National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS) and police have beaten peaceful protestors with sticks and batons and fired tear gas and live ammunition into crowds. On 7 January, in El Geneina, West Darfur one student was killed and six other students were injured after joint forces of the National Intelligence and Security Services and Sudanese Police used live ammunition to disperse a peaceful student march.[1]At least 5 people were killed and 26 others sustained gunshot wounds when joint forces of the Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF) and Rapid Support Forces (RSF) opened live ammunition on a crowd of protestors at Hasahisa camp for internally displaced persons (IDPs) in Zalingei, Central Darfur, on 20 January.[2]
From 6 January to 6 February, the security forces have arrested and detained scores of Sudanese citizens including opposition political party leaders, human rights defenders/activists, journalists, student activists and others for prolonged periods without charge or trial.[3]
We are concerned about the prolonged detention, in most cases incommunicado, of individuals under NISS custody feared to have been abused or at risk of abuse as well as those of advanced age with serious health conditions. The lack of access to lawyers and family members for the detainees, together with the well-documented use by the NISS of torture and other forms of ill-treatment against detainees, particularly whilst held in unknown locations, gives rise to serious concerns for their safety.
We are also concerned about the repeated confiscation by the Sudanese authorities of national newspapers to prevent the coverage of the nationwide January 2018 protests, often at great cost to the newspapers. These restrictions have indirectly caused newspapers to self-censor, limiting the availability of information in order not to cross “red lines”. Censorship is often ramped up around key events with post-print censorship, whereby entire print-runs of daily editions are confiscated prior to morning distribution. Authorities also tightened restrictions to prevent coverage of the nationwide anti-austerity protests in 2013, in April 2015, to prevent coverage of an elections boycott by opposition parties and again in November 2016 to prevent coverage of the civil disobedience campaign protesting anti-austerity measures introduced in early November.
The January 2018 incidents are the latest examples of an ongoing pattern of abuse. In September 2013 government forces used live ammunition to disperse peaceful protests, killing more than 170 protestersand detaining at least 800 protesters without charge. Many of those detained were subjected to ill-treatment in detention. There has been little or no accountability for the deaths, injuries and various other abuses perpetrated by Sudanese authorities against protesters. A patchwork of legal immunities effectively shields government forces from criminal prosecution and accountability. In Sudan, complaints against a member of the security services are effectively curtailed by immunities in legislation governing the SAF, NISS and police for acts committed “in good faith” and “in the course of duty”. Immunities can only be waived by the relevant governing bodies of the Ministry of Interior, Defence or Director of the NISS. The ACHPR considered the issue in a number of cases against Sudan, finding that immunities are incompatible with the right to an effective remedy under the African Charter and concluding that Sudan’s legal system does not provide effective remedies for victims of human rights violations.[4]
We, the undersigned African and international organisations, condemn the unlawful killings, arbitrary and continued incommunicado detentions, torture and other forms of ill-treatment, excessive use of force and post-print censorship by government forces. We urge you to reiterate to the Government of Sudan that all Sudanese have the right to freedom of expression, association, and assembly including freedom of the media. We further urge you to call on the Government of Sudan to:
Sincerely,
Organisations:
African Centre for Justice and Peace Studies (ACJPS)
Alkarama Foundation
Al-Khatim Adlan Centre for Enlightenment, Sudan (KACE)
Association for Human Rights in Ethiopia (AHRE)
DefendDefenders (East and Horn of Africa Human Rights Defenders Project).
Face Past for Future Foundation ( FP4F)
Horn of Africa Civil Society Forum
Human Rights Watch
International Federation for Human Rights (FIDH)
International Refugee Rights Initiative (IRRI)
National Coalition for Human Rights Defenders- Uganda (NCHRD-U)
Sudan Consortium
Sudan Democracy First Group
SUDO (UK)
The MagkaSama Project, France
The World Organisation Against Torture (OMCT)
Waging Peace
Individuals:
Eltigani Hassan Mohamed Idis, Sudanese Advocate
Bakri Jebril Mohamed, Sudanese Advocate
Mohanad Mustafa Elnour, Sudanese Advocate
Amani Osman Hamdi, Sudanese Advocate
[1]ACJPS, Sudanese forces fire live ammunition at student protesters killing one student and injuring six others in El Geneina, West Darfur, 8 January 2018, available at: http://www.acjps.org/sudanese-forces-fire-liveammunition-at-student-protesters-killing-one-student-and-injuring-six-others-in-el-geneina-west-darfur/
[2]ACJPS, Five IDPs killed as SAF and RSF use live ammunition to disperse a protest in Central Darfur, 24 January 2018, available at:http://www.acjps.org/five-idps-killed-as-saf-and-rsf-use-live-ammunition-todisperse-a-protest-central-darfur/.
[3]Annex 1: information on arrests and detention January-February 2018.
[4]See in particular ACHPR,Abdel Hadi, Ali Radi & Others v Republic of Sudan, Communication 368/10, 2013, paras. 47-49 andOsman Hummaida, Monim Elgak and Amir Suliman v Sudan, Communication 379/09, 2014, paras. 66-70.
One Year in the Life of the UN Human Rights Council
Insecurity and Human Rights in Southern Sudan
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
Human Rights Watch defends the rights of people in close to 100 countries worldwide, spotlighting abuses and bringing perpetrators to justice
Get updates on human rights issues from around the globe. Join our movement today.
Every weekday, get the world’s top human rights news, explored and explained by Andrew Stroehlein.
Human Rights Watchis a 501(C)(3) nonprofit registered in the US under EIN: 13-2875808

Title: Seven Central Darfur detainees released - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Seven of the people who were detained in Nierteti, Central Darfur, last month have been released by the security service on Monday. Ten people remain in detention against the backdrop of the weapons collection campaign.
Seven of the people who were detained in Nierteti, Central Darfur, last month have been released by the security service on Monday. Ten people remain in detention against the backdrop of the weapons collection campaign.
Sudan’s military intelligence and the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces detained a number of people on January 11 during searches for illegal weapons in Tur in Nierteti. Two sheikhs were arrested at the time. Sources reported that soldiers beat fourteen people during a raid.
Out of the 25 people who were detained,13 were releasedseveral days later.
An activist informed Radio Dabanga that the security service released the seven detainees Tijani Seifeldin, Adam Hamid Adam, Abdel Shafi Eisa Osman, Mohamed Ahmed Abdallah Musa, Mohamed Eisa Idris, Abdallah Musa and Hasabel Nabi.
Similar searches in Nierteti camp for displaced people carried out by soldiers on January 10 resulted in the wounding ofat least three people.
Weapons collection
Rapid Support Forces and the Sudanese army began collecting illegal arms and unlicensed vehicles from civilians in the regions in the past months. The collection campaign has entered the stage of compulsory collection of weapons. In North Darfur alone,12,500 RSFand police have been deployed to assist with the arms collection and the controls of unregistered vehicles.
Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: Man bayoneted to death in Darfur, others injured in clash with RSF militia - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
A resident of the Kendebbe camp for the displaced in West Darfur’s Sirba was shot by an unknown gunman on Thursday. In Ed El Fursan in South Darfur, five people and two members of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) were wounded at the town’s market.On Thursday evening, a gunman intercepted a group of men living in the Kendebbe camp on their way home after having prayed at a mosque in the neighbourhood.“He pointed his gun with a bayonet at us and ordered us to hand him our money and mobile phones,” one of the victims told Radio Dabanga.
A resident of the Kendebe camp for the displaced in West Darfur’s Sirba was killed by an unknown gunman on Thursday. In Ed El Fursan in South Darfur, five people and two members of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) were wounded at the town’s market.
On Thursday evening, a gunman intercepted a group of men living in the Kendebe camp on their way home after having prayed at a mosque in the neighbourhood.
“He pointed his gun with a bayonet at us and ordered us to hand him our money and mobile phones,” one of the victims told Radio Dabanga.
“When Jamal Andak protested, he stabbed him three times with his bayonet,” he said. “Andak died instantly, after which the attacker fled.”
Market
Five visitors and two RSF militiamen were injured in a fight at the market of Ed El Fursan in South Darfur.
The head of the Bani Halba tribe, El Tom Eisa Dabka, reported to this station that the reasons for the clash are not clear. “Suddenly the people were fighting and stabbing each other.”
He explained that the RSF men are wreaking havoc in the area since the government militiatook over the Ed El Fursan basefrom the UN-AU peacekeeping Mission in Darfur (Unamid) in October last year. “The people living in the area protested but the RSF Deputy-Commander, Esam Fadil, replied that the Presidency gave him the right to take over the mission’s base.”
Unamid sites
In June last year, the UN Security Councilpassed Resolution 2363that renewed Unamid's mandate with another year, yet with a reduction of more than a third of the nearly 19,000 Unamid military troops and police officers present in Darfur.
The Mission's team sites are handed over to the Sudanese government or appropriate private parties as per lease agreements signed by the Mission, Unamid said in apress statement in September.
Unamid responded to claims by Darfur rebel movements that it had handed its sites in El Malha and Mellit in North Darfur “to the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) government militia”.
According torebel movements, the agreement signed between Khartoum and Unamid on the reduction of the peacekeeping troops stipulates that any property left by the mission is should be handed to the local authorities, and is to be used for civilian purposes only.
Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: Merchant killed in Kassala, eastern Sudan - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
A man was shot and killed in his house in Kassala on Monday while he was trying to protect youths from militiamen.
A man was shot and killed in his house in Kassala on Monday while he was trying to protect youths from militiamen.
Members of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) shot and killed merchant Khidir Mohamed in his house in Kassala, early Monday morning. His wife and children were also in the house.
A witness said that a RSF patrol stopped a number of youths from Hamid Wakil village, in the northern side of Kassala. “They seized their phones and belongings, after which the youths ran away.”
They took refuge at Khidir Mohamed’s house, but where followed by members of the RSF. “They opened fire on Mohamed while he tried to protect the youth.”
At the time of reporting it is unclear whether the relatives of the dead have filed a report with the police.
Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: بالمختصر المفيد.. العدوان وقطيع المرتزقة الجدد – الثورة نت

الثورة نت - موقع صحيفة الثورة الرسمية الأولى في اليمن، تصدر عن مؤسسة الثورة للصحافة والطباعة والنشر ومقرها العاصمة صنعاء
عبدالفتاح علي البنوسمن البلاك ووتر إلى الداين جروب إلى الجنجويد أضف إلى ذلك مرتزقة الداخل حشد العدو السعودي وشريكه الإماراتي للقتال بالنيابة عن جيشيهما الكرتونيين الفرارين، بعد أن فشلوا في تحقيق أي انتصار، على مغاوير الجيش واللجان الشعبية، قدموا لهم الإغراءات المالية، ووفروا لهم كافة الإمكانيات لقتال أبناء شعبنا في سياق عدوانهم الهمجي الإجرامي الوحشي، وماهي إلا أيام قلائل حتى لاذ عناصر البلاك ووتر بالفرار بعد أن وجدوا أنفسهم تحت نيران أبطالنا المغاوير، وكان البديل عناصر الداين جروب والذين لم يصمدوا طويلاً وماهي إلا فترة وجيزة حتى غادروا يجرون خلفهم أذيال الهزيمة بعد أن تم التنكيل بهم، وبعد أن أدركوا بأن تواجدهم على الأراضي اليمنية ليس نزهة أو جولة سياحية وحلبة استعراض العضلات، حينها أرسل الزهايمري سلمان نجله المهفوف وقطيع أبواق الوهابية السعودية إلى عدد من الدول العربية والإفريقية والغربية للتعاقد مع مرتزقة جدد للقتال إلى صفهم، وحينها فشلوا في هذه المهمة ولم يتفاعل معهم ويتجاوب مع طلبهم إلا السفاح السوداني عمر حسن البشير الذي انبطح أمام الإغراءات السعودية ووافق على إرسال مجاميع من الجنجويد والقوات السودانية للقتال في اليمن تحت راية آل سعود، وعلى الرغم من الخسائر البشرية في صفوف مرتزقة السودان إلا أن النزعة الإجرامية والتسلطية التي عليها السفاح البشير تدفع به للإستمرار والمضي في إرسال المزيد من المرتزقة طمعاً في المال والإسناد السعودي، ولعل هذا الدور القذر الذي لعبه البشير هو الذي دفع إلى رفع العقوبات المفروضة عليه بعد أن أثبت حسن الولاء والطاعة للبيت الأبيض وتل أبيب والرياض.وبالتزامن مع إرسال المزيد من مرتزقة السودان كان الإماراتيون والسعوديون يحشدون مجاميع من مرتزقة المحافظات الجنوبية للقتال في الحد الشمالي بالنيابة عن الجيش السعودي وكذا للقتال في جبهات الساحل الغربي بعد أن تكبدوا خسائر فادحة في صفوف جنودهم وهو ما أحدث حالة من السخط الشعبي في الشارعين السعودي والإماراتي، وذلك لتفادي ردود الأفعال الغاضبة وخصوصاً بعد أن نجح الإعلام الحربي في نقل صور القتلى من الجنود السعوديين والإماراتيين والمحارق التي يتعرضون لها، فكان خيار جلب المرتزقة هو الأنسب غير مكترثين بما يسفر عن ذلك من قتلى في صفوفهم، ومع ذلك لم ينج أفراد جيشهم من القتل والتنكيل مما دفعهم للذهاب نحو باكستان وأفغانستان للإستعانة بالعناصر الإرهابية المتطرفة للقتال في صفهم على أمل أن يتمكن هؤلاء المرتزقة الجدد من تحقيق ما عجز عن تحقيقه أسلافهم ورفاقهم في درب الإرتزاق والإجرام، وهم بذلك يعلنون عن مرحلة جديدة من مراحل العدوان يريدون تنفيذها مع بداية العام الرابع من عمر عدوانهم الوحشي والإجرامي، ظناً منهم بأن بإمكانهم إخضاع وتركيع أبناء الشعب اليمني، وكسر إرادتهم والنيل من صمودهم وثباتهم باستجلاب مرتزقة جدد يحملون الصبغة الإرهابية الوهابية الفكر والمعتقد والذين تم استقدامهم تحت يافطات وشعارات دينية كاذبة للتغطية على فشلهم والهزائم التي يتجرعون غصصها وآلامها يومياً قرابة الثلاثة أعوام.بالمختصر المفيد، لقد جرب آل سعود وآل نهيان جيشيهما ومرتزقتهما المحليين والخارجيين طيلة الثلاثة الأعوام الماضية من عمر العدوان في مواجهة أبطال الجيش واللجان الشعبية وعايشوا الهزائم المتلاحقة والمتعاقبة الواحدة تلو الأخرى رغم فارق الإمكانيات وضخامة الدعم والإسناد الذي يحظون به، ولكن غرورهم وغطرستهم المسنودة بالرغبة الأمريكية في استمرار العدوان لضمان استمرار تحقيق المصالح والمنافع الأمريكية على حساب الخزانة السعودية والإماراتية يدفعهم للإستعانة بمرتزقة جدد رغم أنهم يدركون بأن المشكلة ليست في كثرة المرتزقة، فالأعداد التي تقاتل معهم من المرتزقة كثيرة جداً، ولكن المشكلة في عدم مشروعية ما يقاتلون من أجله وفظاعة ما يرتكبون من مذابح ومجازر وجرائم حرب يندى لها جبين الإنسانية، هذا الظلم الكبير غير المسبوق لا يمكن أن ينتصر على المظلومية اليمنية، فالله هو الحكم العدل، الجبار المنتقم والناصر والمعين، يحيطنا بلطفه وعنايته وتأييده ومهما حشد الأعداء من مرتزقة سيهزمون بإذن الله ويولون الأدبار ولن تكون اليمن إلا مقابر ومحارق لهم تسوءهم سوء العذاب في الدنيا وينتظرهم في الآخرة العذاب والعقاب الوخيم بإذن الله وقدرته وعلى الباغي تدور الدوائر.هذا وعاشق النبي يصلي عليه وآله.

Prev Post
وزير خارجية النظام السعودي يدخل البرلمان الأوروبي من الباب الخلفي
Next Post
محافظة إب .. تفاعل مستمر لرفد الجبهات بالمقاتلين الأبطال
الحرب وأفول منظّمة التحرير الفلسطينية
عملية “يوم الأربعين”.. رسائلها للجبهات والمفاوضين
أين تخفي غزة الأسرى؟
الثقافة القرآنية وثقافة غرس الأشجار
الصحيفة الورقيةالملحق
صحيفة الثورة الخميس 25 صفر 1446- 29 اغسطس 2024
يوميات الثورة
ولا يزال (الدم) ينتصر على (السيف)..!
يكتبها اليوم / طه العامري
آراء وكتابات
الحرب وأفول منظّمة التحرير الفلسطينية
سمير الزين
عملية “يوم الأربعين”.. رسائلها للجبهات والمفاوضين
إيهاب شوقي
أين تخفي غزة الأسرى؟
د. فايز أبو شمالة
الثقافة القرآنية وثقافة غرس الأشجار
يحيى صلاح الدين
متى تصحو أمة المليار؟
علي محمد الاشموري

Title: Sudan: Perilous Crossroads on Refugee Map
Support AfricaFocus and independent bookstores!
Make non-profitbookshop.orgyour first stop for buying books.See books recommended by AfricaFocus.
Visit the AfricaFocusCountry PagesAlgeriaAngolaBeninBotswanaBurkina FasoBurundiCameroonCape VerdeCentral Afr. Rep.ChadComorosCongo (Brazzaville)Congo (Kinshasa)Côte d'IvoireDjiboutiEgyptEquatorial GuineaEritreaEthiopiaGabonGambiaGhanaGuineaGuinea-BissauKenyaLesothoLiberiaLibyaMadagascarMalawiMaliMauritaniaMauritiusMoroccoMozambiqueNamibiaNigerNigeriaRwandaSão ToméSenegalSeychellesSierra LeoneSomaliaSouth AfricaSouth SudanSudanSwazilandTanzaniaTogoTunisiaUgandaWestern SaharaZambiaZimbabwe
Visit the AfricaFocusCountry PagesAlgeriaAngolaBeninBotswanaBurkina FasoBurundiCameroonCape VerdeCentral Afr. Rep.ChadComorosCongo (Brazzaville)Congo (Kinshasa)Côte d'IvoireDjiboutiEgyptEquatorial GuineaEritreaEthiopiaGabonGambiaGhanaGuineaGuinea-BissauKenyaLesothoLiberiaLibyaMadagascarMalawiMaliMauritaniaMauritiusMoroccoMozambiqueNamibiaNigerNigeriaRwandaSão ToméSenegalSeychellesSierra LeoneSomaliaSouth AfricaSouth SudanSudanSwazilandTanzaniaTogoTunisiaUgandaWestern SaharaZambiaZimbabwe
AlgeriaAngolaBeninBotswanaBurkina FasoBurundiCameroonCape VerdeCentral Afr. Rep.ChadComorosCongo (Brazzaville)Congo (Kinshasa)Côte d'IvoireDjiboutiEgyptEquatorial GuineaEritreaEthiopiaGabonGambiaGhanaGuineaGuinea-BissauKenyaLesothoLiberiaLibyaMadagascarMalawiMaliMauritaniaMauritiusMoroccoMozambiqueNamibiaNigerNigeriaRwandaSão ToméSenegalSeychellesSierra LeoneSomaliaSouth AfricaSouth SudanSudanSwazilandTanzaniaTogoTunisiaUgandaWestern SaharaZambiaZimbabwe

Format for print or mobileSudan: Perilous Crossroads on Refugee MapAfricaFocus BulletinFebruary 12, 2018 (180212)(Reposted from sources cited below)Editor's NoteSudan is one of the central crossroads for African migrant journeys, particularly
for refugees from Eritrea and other counties in the Horn of Africa.
The international media spotlight falls most often on the deadly crossing of the
Mediterranean or slave auctions in the Libyan dessert. But the vulnerability and
deadly perils facing those forced to flee by war, repression, or the struggle for
economic survival extends to a far wider terrain, of which Sudan is one example.Most African migrants, in fact, are displaced within their own countries
(http://www.internal-displacement.org/) or have
sought refuge in immediately neighboring countries, which bear the primary burden
of hosting them. In sub-Saharan Africa in 2016 alone, there were an estimated 2.6 million
people dispaced by conflict, the largest numbers within the Democratic Republic on the Congo and
Nigeria. African countries host moer than 20 million displaced persons, more than
Europe and the Americas combined (http://reporting.unhcr.org/population.Most African migrants, moreover, as stressed by a recent report to the UN
Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA), do not fit the pattern of displacement,
but are similar to migrants elsewhere in the world. They "move for reasons of work,
study, and family" and "are not from the poorest section of their societies of origin."
This 33-page report, although too detailed to easily excerpt here, is essential
for anyone wanting an empirical overview of migrant flows in and out of Africa, is
available athttp://tinyurl.com/y9vgjake.
It does not deny the reality of the perils of forced migration, but it makes clear
that solutions will be elusive as long as policy-makers do not accept the legitimacy and
normality of migration as such.This AfricaFocus Bulletin contains a report on how European Union support for Sudan
to contain migrant flows promotes the systematic abuse of migrants involving both state
security forces and criminal gangs. Also included, for a wider context, are links to
a selection of recommended articles and reports highlighting other places and analyses.For previous AfricaFocus Bulletins on Sudan, visithttp://www.africafocus.org/country/sudan.phpFor previous AfricaFocus Bulletins on migration, visithttp://www.africafocus.org/migrexp.phpIn particular seeJune 19, 2017  Africa/Europe: Mediterranean Trajectorieshttp://www.africafocus.org/docs17/migr1706.phpMarch 6, 2017  South Africa: Targeting Immigrants, Againhttp://www.africafocus.org/docs17/migr1703.phpNovember 17, 2016  Somalia: Rising Threats to Dadaab Refugeeshttp://www.africafocus.org/docs16/som1611.php++++++++++++++++++++++end editor's note+++++++++++++++++Recent Sources on African Refugees: Sudan"Sudan: The E.U.'s Partner in Migration Crime," Refugees Deeply, Jan. 29, 2018http://tinyurl.com/ybgpt77oRecent Sources on African Refugees: Israel"Prison or deportation: The impossible choice for asylum seekers in Israel," IRIN
News,  31 Jan. 2018http://tinyurl.com/ybbq9ps9"Stop Deportations and Grant Asylum to African Refugees in Israel," Jews of Color, 27
Dec. 2017 [includes short video: Do Black Lives Matter in Israel?]http://jocsm.org/signhere_stopdeportingrefugees/Recent Sources on African Refugees: Other"How weavers in Burkina Faso are now on Europe's migration front line,"  IRIN News, 6
Feb. 2018http://tinyurl.com/yascqta4"Human smugglers operate as 'independent traders,' study finds," University of
Cambridge, 22 Jan. 2018http://tinyurl.com/y9ee3dcm"6 years, 8 countries: A Refugee Couple's Harrowing Search for Safety," Nation, Feb.
9, 2017http://tinyurl.com/y8vf7segMartin Lemberg-Pedersen, "Externalizing brutality to Libya is not an answer
to displacement," European Council on Refugees and Exiles, 1 Dec. 2017http://tinyurl.com/ybdmmjxxRecent Sources on Global Migration: Structural Analyaes"Moving Targets: An Analysis of Global Forced Migration, Haas Institute, September
2017 [64-page research report]http://tinyurl.com/yak3kfsnHein de Haas, Sonja Fransen, "Social transformation and migration:
An empirical inquiry," International Migration Institute Network, Jan. 2018,
[40-page working paper]http://tinyurl.com/y9jus7j7Inside the EU's flawed $200 million migration deal with SudanWithout addressing the root causes of migration, only corrupt government officials
and traffickers are benefiting from criminalising migrantsCaitlin L. ChandlerIRIN News, Khartoum, 30 January 2018http://www.irinnews.org– Direct URL:http://tinyurl.com/yac6xac5Key PointsThe EU has allocated over $200 million to help Sudan stem migration since 2015Asylum seekers allege Sudanese officials are complicit in abuse, extortionTraffickers said to hold people for weeks, beat and torture them for moneyArrivals in Italy from Horn of Africa fell to a fraction in 2017, but new routes
are opening upCrackdown has seen asylum seekers rountinely rounded up, taken to Khartoum to pay
fines or be deportedThe EU insists strict conditions govern the use of its money and it is monitoring
for abusesAs millions of dollars in EU funds flow into Sudan to stem African migration, asylum
seekers say they are increasingly trapped, living in a perpetual state of fear and
exploitation in this key transit country.In interviews with over 25 Eritrean and Ethiopian asylum seekers in Khartoum and the
eastern city of Kassala, as well as local journalists, and lawyers working on behalf
of refugees, IRIN has documented allegations of endemic police abuse, including
extortion, violence, and sexual assault.The pattern of corruption and rights violations uncovered feeds into broader concerns
over whether the EU's migration policies are making a difficult situation worse.Across Sudan's capital, Khartoum, some 30,000 Eritrean, Ethiopian, and other African
refugees are crammed into decrepit, non-descript houses, waiting for their chance to
escape the country and make it to Europe.Sudan's previously porous northern border with Libya has become increasingly
dangerous to cross after Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir deployed the former
Janjaweed – a paramilitary group implicated in war crimes during the Darfur conflict
– in 2015 as border guards.This militia, re-named the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) and integrated into Sudan's
army in January 2017, arrests asylum seekers and hands them over to the police, who
detain, fine, and deport them for illegal entry – regardless of whether returning
them to their countries will result in torture or imprisonment.Tortured for moneyThe Shagarab refugee camp appears out of nowhere, a sprawling, dusty settlement in
eastern Sudan near the Eritrean border, two hours by road from the main town of
Kassala, through a series of tightly controlled checkpoints that require police
permission to pass.Some 40,000 refugees, primarily Eritreans, are registered at Shagarab, but it feels
deserted. For many Eritreans, the camp is only a temporary stop for two or three
months before the next stages of their journey, on to Khartoum, and then on to Libya
or Egypt, before the final goal of Europe.Inside Shagarab's centre for unaccompanied minors, teenagers watch TV and stay glued
to their mobile phones, eager to be in contact with the outside world. But some have
experienced awful abuse at the hands of traffickers as they escaped from Eritrea –
one of the world's most oppressive states – and into Sudan.Dawit*, 17, fled Eritrea to escape military conscription – in a country where unpaid
army service can last for years – travelling first to Ethiopia and then hiring
smugglers to take him into Sudan.He couldn't pay the smugglers up front, and so once inside Sudan was trafficked and
held for ransom in Hajer, a town almost all Eritrean refugees interviewed by IRIN
mentioned as a place to avoid."Sudanese smugglers tortured us for the payment," said Dawit. "They stripped us naked
and beat us with whips while our families were on the [telephone] line. New arrivals
had two-three days after arrival to pay before being beaten."Those who had been there longer were beaten every day. The women fared even worse –
men would come, pick them out, and take them away. When they returned, they were
bleeding and crying."Dawit said that after being held for five days, the smugglers got a call warning them
that there was about to be a police raid, and they all escaped.The tip-off is entirely in keeping with numerous accounts of the involvement of
Sudanese officials in the trafficking industry.Sudan has long been a transit country for Eritreans and others on the move, as well
as a country people flee from.Sudan's increasing criminalisation of refugees and migrants, as well as conditions in
Libya, where the EU backs the Libyan coastguard to capture refugees at sea and return
them to detention centres, have contributed to a steep drop in the number of people
arriving in Italy.In 2016, 40,773 refugees and migrants from the Horn of Africa arrived in Italy; in
2017, only 8,688 people made it.Yet young Eritrean men and women in Khartoum and Kassala told IRIN they had no
intention of remaining in Sudan, despite being aware of the risks of using smugglers
to take them through Libya and Egypt, where they can experience torture and death.Some said they would wait for new, safer routes to open, while others were working as
maids and daily labourers to raise enough money to start the journey as soon as
possible."When I came from Eritrea, I was kidnapped for two weeks. I didn't know where I was,
and I was raped many times. So, nothing [worse] will happen to me. All of us left our
families behind," said a young Eritrean woman in Khartoum. "We'll take the risk of
going to Europe."Over the past two years, the EU has allocated more than $200 million in migrationrelated
funds to Sudan, part of its broader strategy to outsource migration control
to third countries.EU financing for border management includes training and equipment for border police,
capacity building for the judiciary, and legal reforms to encourage increased arrests
and prosecution of traffickers and smugglers.This support is despite the fact that the Sudanese government has for years been
condemned for its human rights record – al-Bashir has an outstanding arrest warrant
for crimes against humanity issued by the International Criminal Court.The EU sidesteps accusations it is working with Sudan's repressive security apparatus
by arguing that it doesn't fund the government directly, rather it funnels its aid
through international organisations, including UN agencies.But these EU partners are willing to work with controversial arms of the Sudanese
government.For example, the UN refugee agency, UNHCR, confirmed to IRIN it has provided
motorbikes in Kassala to the National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS) – a
spy service responsible for the arrest, torture, and detention of human rights
activists and the government's political opponents.Extortion and abuseIn densely populated Khartoum neighbourhoods like al-Geraif and al-Daim, groups of 10
to 15 Eritrean refugees live in sub-divided shanty houses. Rooms are occupied by
entire families or as many as eight single young men and women at a time.Many rely on donations from family members abroad to afford food, children's school
fees, and other basic expenses. Those without family support are destitute, eating
only one meal a day, without access to proper sanitation or medical care.Filmon, 21, arrived in Sudan in November 2016 from Ginda, Eritrea. He shares a dirty,
cramped room with five other young men. Until recently, it lacked a latrine."Life in Khartoum is very hard. I don't get enough money or good work and it's not a
safe area," he told IRIN. "I've been asked [by the police] about my cards, my refugee
card, regularly. I think about going to Europe through Libya – I have no choice," he
said.Although Sudan has a policy that refugees must live in camps, the majority of
Eritreans either stop in them just long enough to claim asylum status and collect an
identification card, or head directly for Khartoum. Many have travelled with
smugglers, and some have experienced trafficking, violence, and sexual assault
crossing into Sudan or once inside.In Khartoum, they find a prison of a different kind. Refugees report being terrorised
by the police, who enter their neighbourhoods – sometimes in the middle of the night
– and extort and detain people for not having ID cards. Cash and valuables are
routinely stolen.Sara is a bubbly young Eritrean woman who attends henna training classes. She told
IRIN how she was arrested on the street for not having her refugee card, and at the
police station was offered a choice: "If you want to be free, you will have sex with
us."Sara, who was 17 at the time, narrowly avoided being raped because her 19-year-old
female companion went with the policemen instead.Feeding corruptionEach month, police funnel hundreds of refugees and migrants through courts in
Khartoum, where they are charged with violating Sudan's Passport and Immigration Act
and fined the equivalent of $360.If they do not pay the fines, they are deported to their home country, usually
without having the opportunity to consult a lawyer or claim asylum, even though some
may have experienced violence, torture, and other acts in Sudan or in their home
countries that could qualify them.Hundreds of Eritreans have been extradited over the past two years, including some
who were registered as refugees. Deporting an asylum seeker back to the country they
fled from and where they face persecution is known as refoulement, and it is a
violation of the UN Refugee Convention.Lawyers working to represent refugees in court before they are extradited describe a
justice system that is just as corrupt as the police force."In many cases the traffickers are let go because they have police officers as
[defence] witnesses," said Khalid, a lawyer working in Khartoum. "There are trials
where 250 refugees are arrested, and each one is fined. It happens so fast – the
process of being arrested, the trial and the conviction – and the judge and the
police force responsible get a cut of the money. These judges are the same ones who
were trained by the British embassy."The Khartoum ProcessEurope's focus on curbing migration from Sudan began in November 2014, with the
launch of the Khartoum Process – a dialogue between the EU and Horn of Africa
countries to combat trafficking and smuggling. It initially emphasised protection and
human rights, but in operation its focus has been a law enforcement response to
migration.In 2015, Brussels created a special pot of money – the EU Emergency Trust Fund for
Africa – to assist the Khartoum Process in addressing the root causes of migration
and fighting trafficking and smuggling.An Oxfam analysis found that of the €400 million allocated through the fund, only
three percent went towards developing safe and regular routes for migration. The bulk
was spent on migration control.Police Lieutenant General Awad al-Neel Dahiya, head of the Ministry of Interior
Passports and Civil Registry Authority and a key interlocutor for the EU's migration
efforts, believes the focus is justified."As a matter of fact, we have very long borders – 7,000 kilometres plus," he told
IRIN. "Compared to our resources, it is very difficult to control – maybe we can be
assisted by technology, so we can control the influx, as well as those going out –
whether its Sudanese [people or people from] other countries passing through Sudan."But Sudanese specialists say the EU is operating on the flawed assumption that the
government is sincere in wanting to end the lucrative trafficking business."There is a lack of political will from the Sudanese government to fight
trafficking," Rifat Makawi, another lawyer in Khartoum, explained. "Creating new
policies and drafting laws is just done by the government to please Western
countries. On the ground, nothing changes."A recent report from the Regional Mixed Migration Secretariat noted that despite the
flurry of anti-smuggling and trafficking efforts, new smuggling routes continue to
open across the Horn, with Eritrean and Sudanese smuggling networks gaining
influence.One estimate puts the profits of the smuggling business on the northwestern route
from the Horn of Africa to Europe at approximately $203 million in 2016.An uncomfortable allianceThe US State Department's 2017 Trafficking in Persons Report concludes that Sudan
"does not fully meet the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking and is
not making significant efforts to do so."Human Rights Watch has accused the security forces, including the RSF, of colluding
with human traffickers and smugglers rather than investigating them.The EU's interest in managing migration has precipitated a sharp shift in how member
countries engage with Khartoum. For years, European governments avoided dealing with
al-Bashir because of the ICC arrest warrant and his rights record, but there has been
something of a sea change.The UK is now engaged in a biannual "strategic dialogue" focused on migration, trade,
and counter-terrorism. Italy has signed a policing agreement on trafficking,
irregular immigration and terrorism; and Norway is discussing an agreement to
facilitate easier deportation of Sudanese asylum seekers. Belgium recently allowed
Sudanese security officials to vet asylum-seekers; those who were then deported back
to Sudan were detained, interrogated and tortured.Michael Aron, the UK ambassador to Sudan, said the EU can influence police behaviour
through dialogue. "There are people we talk to in the police who are definitely
trying to do the right thing," he explained. "We should be helping the good guys so
they can increase their influence over decision-making and gradually get the
situation more under control."Meanwhile, over the past three years, the Sudanese government has made it clear it
expects the EU to provide funds and equipment for its migration control efforts.The head of the RSF, Mohamed Hamdan, regularly boasts about the RSF's role in
assisting the EU. He recently told Al Jazeera: "[The EU] lose[s] millions in fighting
migration, that's why [it has] to support us."The EU ambassador to the Sudan, Jean-Michel Dumond, rejects criticism of Europe's
relationship with Khartoum. "We have been accused of all the sins of the world, and
it's quite clear we have never cooperated with the RSF – we have no link," he told
IRIN. "[EU] aid is given [under] very clear conditions."Meanwhile, former border control officials from European countries are arriving in
Khartoum as consultants, replacing development experts in some international
agencies. One of the latest EU-funded projects is a Regional Command Center in
Khartoum (ROCK), to be run by Civipol out of the Sudanese police training compound."The migration issue is becoming like the Darfur crisis, it's a business," said
Fatima, a Sudanese journalist covering migration who also pointed to the creation of
numerous new government charities that have started turning up at migration-related
meetings. "Everyone wants a piece of the pie," she added."Where to keep them?"Yusef, an Eritrean refugee, tried to head to Europe in 2014 via Libya, but was
returned to the Sudanese border by a militia in Libya. There, he was arrested, along
with hundreds of other refugees.The Sudanese border guards brought Yusef to the northern town of Dongola that now
serves as an informal detention facility for refugees captured at the border.On the three-day journey, Yusef alleges that over 50 people died from lack of food,
water, and medical care. Their pleas for help went unanswered. "We told them our
friends are dying, are thirsty, hungry, suffering. They don't protect you," he toldIRIN.In Dongola, Yusef was kept in a large compound along with hundreds of other people.
Eight Bangladeshi men in the facility paid and were immediately released, along with
a number of Somalis and Sudanese. But the Eritreans and Ethiopians were detained for
a month.Yusef said he counted nine people who died due to lack of medical care.
Representatives of the UN visited – a team of four foreigners with an Eritrean
translator – and told the inmates that if they had a refugee card they could go back
to the Shagarab refugee camp in eastern Sudan, or else they would be deported.Yusef had a refugee card but did not trust the UN or the Sudanese government to
protect him. To avoid being sent back to Eritrea, where he could likely face torture
and imprisonment, Yusef claimed to be Ethiopian. He was deported to Ethiopia, and
crossed back into Sudan a few weeks later.Monitoring from afarThe EU is now planning to work in Dongola through its flagship Better Migration
Management project, a $46 million regional programme run by the German Agency for
International Cooperation (GIZ), in partnership with the International Organization
on Migration (IOM), Italian police and Civipol, a consulting wing of the French
ministry of interior, among other organisations."The proposal came from us, because we have nowhere to keep people," said Dahiya, the
head of Sudan's Ministry of Interior Passports and Civil Registry Authority. "Every
month we have to intercept almost 100 or sometimes 500 irregular migrants; we have to
process their return and their protection – it gives us real challenges – where to
keep them?"According to the UK ambassador, BMM will set-up a centre in Dongola to help receive
the arrested refugees and migrants. But it's not clear how human rights abuses will
be monitored, especially somewhere where there are no international NGOs or observers
at present.Martin Weiss, the BMM project head in Germany, insists the programme aims to protect
migrants."BMM is not about border surveillance, but about protecting refugees, facilitating
migration, and improving conditions for people who are fleeing their homes," he wrote
in an email. "At present, many refugees are vulnerable to violence, slavery or rape.
We want to provide an effective response to the problem."But the EU and its partners don't appear to have a viable strategy to mitigate human
rights abuses. In the case of the BMM project, the EU and GIZ claim that its steering
committee – composed of the European Commission, Germany, UK, France, Italy, and the
Netherlands – oversees human rights risks remotely from Brussels."The steering committee has a clear view of what is possible and what is not
possible," said Dumond, "and we don't think there is a big risk [of human rights
violations as a result of EU funding]."He added that EU officials frequently go on mission in Sudan to assess conditions
first-hand.But such visits are tightly controlled by the government and the security services.
When IRIN visited Shagarab, for example, police and NISS officers followed,
transcribing every interview.The EU and GIZ also declined to show country specific budgets for Sudan for the BMM
programme. That opacity is a way to escape "accountability and scrutiny", explained
Giulia Laganà, a migration specialist at the Open Society European Policy Institute,
via email.Rethink neededThe situation Yusef faced in Eritrea forced him to leave. Stricter border controls
did not deter him in striving for a better life, and neither did the rights abuses he
encountered. Yet there is no indication the EU is open to adjusting its migration
management strategy in the face of mounting criticism that its approach in Sudan is
not only ineffective but also causing harm."The real root causes of migration are very complex," said Dumond. "You cannot hope
to address all these problems and have quick solutions in a few months."But a new report from the International Refugee Rights Initiative, The Strategic
Initiative for Women in the Horn of Africa (SIHA), and The Centre for Human Rights
Law at SOAS, University of London, argues that a re-think is urgently needed."As barriers are created without sufficient alternatives being offered, people are
taking greater and greater risks and journeys are becoming increasingly dangerous,"
the study found. "The only people benefitting … are the smugglers and traffickers."Caitlin L. Chandler reported from Sudan with a fellowship from the International
Reporting Project (IRP)*To protect their identities, sources referred to by a first name only have had their
names changed.AfricaFocus Bulletin is an independent electronic publication providing reposted
commentary and analysis on African issues, with a particular focus on U.S. and
international policies. AfricaFocus Bulletin is edited by William Minter.AfricaFocus Bulletin can be reached atafricafocus@igc.org. Please write to this
address to suggest material for inclusion. For more information about reposted
material, please contact directly the original source mentioned. For a full archive
and other resources, seehttp://www.africafocus.org
AfricaFocus BulletinFebruary 12, 2018 (180212)(Reposted from sources cited below)
Sudan is one of the central crossroads for African migrant journeys, particularly
for refugees from Eritrea and other counties in the Horn of Africa.
The international media spotlight falls most often on the deadly crossing of the
Mediterranean or slave auctions in the Libyan dessert. But the vulnerability and
deadly perils facing those forced to flee by war, repression, or the struggle for
economic survival extends to a far wider terrain, of which Sudan is one example.
Most African migrants, in fact, are displaced within their own countries
(http://www.internal-displacement.org/) or have
sought refuge in immediately neighboring countries, which bear the primary burden
of hosting them. In sub-Saharan Africa in 2016 alone, there were an estimated 2.6 million
people dispaced by conflict, the largest numbers within the Democratic Republic on the Congo and
Nigeria. African countries host moer than 20 million displaced persons, more than
Europe and the Americas combined (http://reporting.unhcr.org/population.
Most African migrants, moreover, as stressed by a recent report to the UN
Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA), do not fit the pattern of displacement,
but are similar to migrants elsewhere in the world. They "move for reasons of work,
study, and family" and "are not from the poorest section of their societies of origin."
This 33-page report, although too detailed to easily excerpt here, is essential
for anyone wanting an empirical overview of migrant flows in and out of Africa, is
available athttp://tinyurl.com/y9vgjake.
It does not deny the reality of the perils of forced migration, but it makes clear
that solutions will be elusive as long as policy-makers do not accept the legitimacy and
normality of migration as such.
This AfricaFocus Bulletin contains a report on how European Union support for Sudan
to contain migrant flows promotes the systematic abuse of migrants involving both state
security forces and criminal gangs. Also included, for a wider context, are links to
a selection of recommended articles and reports highlighting other places and analyses.
For previous AfricaFocus Bulletins on Sudan, visithttp://www.africafocus.org/country/sudan.php
For previous AfricaFocus Bulletins on migration, visithttp://www.africafocus.org/migrexp.php
In particular seeJune 19, 2017  Africa/Europe: Mediterranean Trajectorieshttp://www.africafocus.org/docs17/migr1706.php
March 6, 2017  South Africa: Targeting Immigrants, Againhttp://www.africafocus.org/docs17/migr1703.php
November 17, 2016  Somalia: Rising Threats to Dadaab Refugeeshttp://www.africafocus.org/docs16/som1611.php
++++++++++++++++++++++end editor's note+++++++++++++++++
"Sudan: The E.U.'s Partner in Migration Crime," Refugees Deeply, Jan. 29, 2018http://tinyurl.com/ybgpt77o
"Prison or deportation: The impossible choice for asylum seekers in Israel," IRIN
News,  31 Jan. 2018http://tinyurl.com/ybbq9ps9
"Stop Deportations and Grant Asylum to African Refugees in Israel," Jews of Color, 27
Dec. 2017 [includes short video: Do Black Lives Matter in Israel?]http://jocsm.org/signhere_stopdeportingrefugees/
"How weavers in Burkina Faso are now on Europe's migration front line,"  IRIN News, 6
Feb. 2018http://tinyurl.com/yascqta4
"Human smugglers operate as 'independent traders,' study finds," University of
Cambridge, 22 Jan. 2018http://tinyurl.com/y9ee3dcm
"6 years, 8 countries: A Refugee Couple's Harrowing Search for Safety," Nation, Feb.
9, 2017http://tinyurl.com/y8vf7seg
Martin Lemberg-Pedersen, "Externalizing brutality to Libya is not an answer
to displacement," European Council on Refugees and Exiles, 1 Dec. 2017http://tinyurl.com/ybdmmjxx
"Moving Targets: An Analysis of Global Forced Migration, Haas Institute, September
2017 [64-page research report]http://tinyurl.com/yak3kfsn
Hein de Haas, Sonja Fransen, "Social transformation and migration:
An empirical inquiry," International Migration Institute Network, Jan. 2018,
[40-page working paper]http://tinyurl.com/y9jus7j7
Without addressing the root causes of migration, only corrupt government officials
and traffickers are benefiting from criminalising migrants
Caitlin L. Chandler
IRIN News, Khartoum, 30 January 2018
http://www.irinnews.org– Direct URL:http://tinyurl.com/yac6xac5

As millions of dollars in EU funds flow into Sudan to stem African migration, asylum
seekers say they are increasingly trapped, living in a perpetual state of fear and
exploitation in this key transit country.
In interviews with over 25 Eritrean and Ethiopian asylum seekers in Khartoum and the
eastern city of Kassala, as well as local journalists, and lawyers working on behalf
of refugees, IRIN has documented allegations of endemic police abuse, including
extortion, violence, and sexual assault.
The pattern of corruption and rights violations uncovered feeds into broader concerns
over whether the EU's migration policies are making a difficult situation worse.
Across Sudan's capital, Khartoum, some 30,000 Eritrean, Ethiopian, and other African
refugees are crammed into decrepit, non-descript houses, waiting for their chance to
escape the country and make it to Europe.
Sudan's previously porous northern border with Libya has become increasingly
dangerous to cross after Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir deployed the former
Janjaweed – a paramilitary group implicated in war crimes during the Darfur conflict
– in 2015 as border guards.
This militia, re-named the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) and integrated into Sudan's
army in January 2017, arrests asylum seekers and hands them over to the police, who
detain, fine, and deport them for illegal entry – regardless of whether returning
them to their countries will result in torture or imprisonment.
The Shagarab refugee camp appears out of nowhere, a sprawling, dusty settlement in
eastern Sudan near the Eritrean border, two hours by road from the main town of
Kassala, through a series of tightly controlled checkpoints that require police
permission to pass.
Some 40,000 refugees, primarily Eritreans, are registered at Shagarab, but it feels
deserted. For many Eritreans, the camp is only a temporary stop for two or three
months before the next stages of their journey, on to Khartoum, and then on to Libya
or Egypt, before the final goal of Europe.
Inside Shagarab's centre for unaccompanied minors, teenagers watch TV and stay glued
to their mobile phones, eager to be in contact with the outside world. But some have
experienced awful abuse at the hands of traffickers as they escaped from Eritrea –
one of the world's most oppressive states – and into Sudan.
Dawit*, 17, fled Eritrea to escape military conscription – in a country where unpaid
army service can last for years – travelling first to Ethiopia and then hiring
smugglers to take him into Sudan.
He couldn't pay the smugglers up front, and so once inside Sudan was trafficked and
held for ransom in Hajer, a town almost all Eritrean refugees interviewed by IRIN
mentioned as a place to avoid.
"Sudanese smugglers tortured us for the payment," said Dawit. "They stripped us naked
and beat us with whips while our families were on the [telephone] line. New arrivals
had two-three days after arrival to pay before being beaten.
"Those who had been there longer were beaten every day. The women fared even worse –
men would come, pick them out, and take them away. When they returned, they were
bleeding and crying."
Dawit said that after being held for five days, the smugglers got a call warning them
that there was about to be a police raid, and they all escaped.
The tip-off is entirely in keeping with numerous accounts of the involvement of
Sudanese officials in the trafficking industry.
Sudan has long been a transit country for Eritreans and others on the move, as well
as a country people flee from.
Sudan's increasing criminalisation of refugees and migrants, as well as conditions in
Libya, where the EU backs the Libyan coastguard to capture refugees at sea and return
them to detention centres, have contributed to a steep drop in the number of people
arriving in Italy.
In 2016, 40,773 refugees and migrants from the Horn of Africa arrived in Italy; in
2017, only 8,688 people made it.
Yet young Eritrean men and women in Khartoum and Kassala told IRIN they had no
intention of remaining in Sudan, despite being aware of the risks of using smugglers
to take them through Libya and Egypt, where they can experience torture and death.
Some said they would wait for new, safer routes to open, while others were working as
maids and daily labourers to raise enough money to start the journey as soon as
possible.
"When I came from Eritrea, I was kidnapped for two weeks. I didn't know where I was,
and I was raped many times. So, nothing [worse] will happen to me. All of us left our
families behind," said a young Eritrean woman in Khartoum. "We'll take the risk of
going to Europe."
Over the past two years, the EU has allocated more than $200 million in migrationrelated
funds to Sudan, part of its broader strategy to outsource migration control
to third countries.
EU financing for border management includes training and equipment for border police,
capacity building for the judiciary, and legal reforms to encourage increased arrests
and prosecution of traffickers and smugglers.
This support is despite the fact that the Sudanese government has for years been
condemned for its human rights record – al-Bashir has an outstanding arrest warrant
for crimes against humanity issued by the International Criminal Court.
The EU sidesteps accusations it is working with Sudan's repressive security apparatus
by arguing that it doesn't fund the government directly, rather it funnels its aid
through international organisations, including UN agencies.
But these EU partners are willing to work with controversial arms of the Sudanese
government.
For example, the UN refugee agency, UNHCR, confirmed to IRIN it has provided
motorbikes in Kassala to the National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS) – a
spy service responsible for the arrest, torture, and detention of human rights
activists and the government's political opponents.
In densely populated Khartoum neighbourhoods like al-Geraif and al-Daim, groups of 10
to 15 Eritrean refugees live in sub-divided shanty houses. Rooms are occupied by
entire families or as many as eight single young men and women at a time.
Many rely on donations from family members abroad to afford food, children's school
fees, and other basic expenses. Those without family support are destitute, eating
only one meal a day, without access to proper sanitation or medical care.
Filmon, 21, arrived in Sudan in November 2016 from Ginda, Eritrea. He shares a dirty,
cramped room with five other young men. Until recently, it lacked a latrine.
"Life in Khartoum is very hard. I don't get enough money or good work and it's not a
safe area," he told IRIN. "I've been asked [by the police] about my cards, my refugee
card, regularly. I think about going to Europe through Libya – I have no choice," he
said.
Although Sudan has a policy that refugees must live in camps, the majority of
Eritreans either stop in them just long enough to claim asylum status and collect an
identification card, or head directly for Khartoum. Many have travelled with
smugglers, and some have experienced trafficking, violence, and sexual assault
crossing into Sudan or once inside.
In Khartoum, they find a prison of a different kind. Refugees report being terrorised
by the police, who enter their neighbourhoods – sometimes in the middle of the night
– and extort and detain people for not having ID cards. Cash and valuables are
routinely stolen.
Sara is a bubbly young Eritrean woman who attends henna training classes. She told
IRIN how she was arrested on the street for not having her refugee card, and at the
police station was offered a choice: "If you want to be free, you will have sex with
us."
Sara, who was 17 at the time, narrowly avoided being raped because her 19-year-old
female companion went with the policemen instead.
Each month, police funnel hundreds of refugees and migrants through courts in
Khartoum, where they are charged with violating Sudan's Passport and Immigration Act
and fined the equivalent of $360.
If they do not pay the fines, they are deported to their home country, usually
without having the opportunity to consult a lawyer or claim asylum, even though some
may have experienced violence, torture, and other acts in Sudan or in their home
countries that could qualify them.
Hundreds of Eritreans have been extradited over the past two years, including some
who were registered as refugees. Deporting an asylum seeker back to the country they
fled from and where they face persecution is known as refoulement, and it is a
violation of the UN Refugee Convention.
Lawyers working to represent refugees in court before they are extradited describe a
justice system that is just as corrupt as the police force.
"In many cases the traffickers are let go because they have police officers as
[defence] witnesses," said Khalid, a lawyer working in Khartoum. "There are trials
where 250 refugees are arrested, and each one is fined. It happens so fast – the
process of being arrested, the trial and the conviction – and the judge and the
police force responsible get a cut of the money. These judges are the same ones who
were trained by the British embassy."
Europe's focus on curbing migration from Sudan began in November 2014, with the
launch of the Khartoum Process – a dialogue between the EU and Horn of Africa
countries to combat trafficking and smuggling. It initially emphasised protection and
human rights, but in operation its focus has been a law enforcement response to
migration.
In 2015, Brussels created a special pot of money – the EU Emergency Trust Fund for
Africa – to assist the Khartoum Process in addressing the root causes of migration
and fighting trafficking and smuggling.
An Oxfam analysis found that of the €400 million allocated through the fund, only
three percent went towards developing safe and regular routes for migration. The bulk
was spent on migration control.
Police Lieutenant General Awad al-Neel Dahiya, head of the Ministry of Interior
Passports and Civil Registry Authority and a key interlocutor for the EU's migration
efforts, believes the focus is justified.
"As a matter of fact, we have very long borders – 7,000 kilometres plus," he told
IRIN. "Compared to our resources, it is very difficult to control – maybe we can be
assisted by technology, so we can control the influx, as well as those going out –
whether its Sudanese [people or people from] other countries passing through Sudan."
But Sudanese specialists say the EU is operating on the flawed assumption that the
government is sincere in wanting to end the lucrative trafficking business.
"There is a lack of political will from the Sudanese government to fight
trafficking," Rifat Makawi, another lawyer in Khartoum, explained. "Creating new
policies and drafting laws is just done by the government to please Western
countries. On the ground, nothing changes."
A recent report from the Regional Mixed Migration Secretariat noted that despite the
flurry of anti-smuggling and trafficking efforts, new smuggling routes continue to
open across the Horn, with Eritrean and Sudanese smuggling networks gaining
influence.
One estimate puts the profits of the smuggling business on the northwestern route
from the Horn of Africa to Europe at approximately $203 million in 2016.
The US State Department's 2017 Trafficking in Persons Report concludes that Sudan
"does not fully meet the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking and is
not making significant efforts to do so."
Human Rights Watch has accused the security forces, including the RSF, of colluding
with human traffickers and smugglers rather than investigating them.
The EU's interest in managing migration has precipitated a sharp shift in how member
countries engage with Khartoum. For years, European governments avoided dealing with
al-Bashir because of the ICC arrest warrant and his rights record, but there has been
something of a sea change.
The UK is now engaged in a biannual "strategic dialogue" focused on migration, trade,
and counter-terrorism. Italy has signed a policing agreement on trafficking,
irregular immigration and terrorism; and Norway is discussing an agreement to
facilitate easier deportation of Sudanese asylum seekers. Belgium recently allowed
Sudanese security officials to vet asylum-seekers; those who were then deported back
to Sudan were detained, interrogated and tortured.
Michael Aron, the UK ambassador to Sudan, said the EU can influence police behaviour
through dialogue. "There are people we talk to in the police who are definitely
trying to do the right thing," he explained. "We should be helping the good guys so
they can increase their influence over decision-making and gradually get the
situation more under control."
Meanwhile, over the past three years, the Sudanese government has made it clear it
expects the EU to provide funds and equipment for its migration control efforts.
The head of the RSF, Mohamed Hamdan, regularly boasts about the RSF's role in
assisting the EU. He recently told Al Jazeera: "[The EU] lose[s] millions in fighting
migration, that's why [it has] to support us."
The EU ambassador to the Sudan, Jean-Michel Dumond, rejects criticism of Europe's
relationship with Khartoum. "We have been accused of all the sins of the world, and
it's quite clear we have never cooperated with the RSF – we have no link," he told
IRIN. "[EU] aid is given [under] very clear conditions."
Meanwhile, former border control officials from European countries are arriving in
Khartoum as consultants, replacing development experts in some international
agencies. One of the latest EU-funded projects is a Regional Command Center in
Khartoum (ROCK), to be run by Civipol out of the Sudanese police training compound.
"The migration issue is becoming like the Darfur crisis, it's a business," said
Fatima, a Sudanese journalist covering migration who also pointed to the creation of
numerous new government charities that have started turning up at migration-related
meetings. "Everyone wants a piece of the pie," she added.
Yusef, an Eritrean refugee, tried to head to Europe in 2014 via Libya, but was
returned to the Sudanese border by a militia in Libya. There, he was arrested, along
with hundreds of other refugees.
The Sudanese border guards brought Yusef to the northern town of Dongola that now
serves as an informal detention facility for refugees captured at the border.
On the three-day journey, Yusef alleges that over 50 people died from lack of food,
water, and medical care. Their pleas for help went unanswered. "We told them our
friends are dying, are thirsty, hungry, suffering. They don't protect you," he toldIRIN.
In Dongola, Yusef was kept in a large compound along with hundreds of other people.
Eight Bangladeshi men in the facility paid and were immediately released, along with
a number of Somalis and Sudanese. But the Eritreans and Ethiopians were detained for
a month.
Yusef said he counted nine people who died due to lack of medical care.
Representatives of the UN visited – a team of four foreigners with an Eritrean
translator – and told the inmates that if they had a refugee card they could go back
to the Shagarab refugee camp in eastern Sudan, or else they would be deported.
Yusef had a refugee card but did not trust the UN or the Sudanese government to
protect him. To avoid being sent back to Eritrea, where he could likely face torture
and imprisonment, Yusef claimed to be Ethiopian. He was deported to Ethiopia, and
crossed back into Sudan a few weeks later.
The EU is now planning to work in Dongola through its flagship Better Migration
Management project, a $46 million regional programme run by the German Agency for
International Cooperation (GIZ), in partnership with the International Organization
on Migration (IOM), Italian police and Civipol, a consulting wing of the French
ministry of interior, among other organisations.
"The proposal came from us, because we have nowhere to keep people," said Dahiya, the
head of Sudan's Ministry of Interior Passports and Civil Registry Authority. "Every
month we have to intercept almost 100 or sometimes 500 irregular migrants; we have to
process their return and their protection – it gives us real challenges – where to
keep them?"
According to the UK ambassador, BMM will set-up a centre in Dongola to help receive
the arrested refugees and migrants. But it's not clear how human rights abuses will
be monitored, especially somewhere where there are no international NGOs or observers
at present.
Martin Weiss, the BMM project head in Germany, insists the programme aims to protect
migrants.
"BMM is not about border surveillance, but about protecting refugees, facilitating
migration, and improving conditions for people who are fleeing their homes," he wrote
in an email. "At present, many refugees are vulnerable to violence, slavery or rape.
We want to provide an effective response to the problem."
But the EU and its partners don't appear to have a viable strategy to mitigate human
rights abuses. In the case of the BMM project, the EU and GIZ claim that its steering
committee – composed of the European Commission, Germany, UK, France, Italy, and the
Netherlands – oversees human rights risks remotely from Brussels.
"The steering committee has a clear view of what is possible and what is not
possible," said Dumond, "and we don't think there is a big risk [of human rights
violations as a result of EU funding]."
He added that EU officials frequently go on mission in Sudan to assess conditions
first-hand.
But such visits are tightly controlled by the government and the security services.
When IRIN visited Shagarab, for example, police and NISS officers followed,
transcribing every interview.
The EU and GIZ also declined to show country specific budgets for Sudan for the BMM
programme. That opacity is a way to escape "accountability and scrutiny", explained
Giulia Laganà, a migration specialist at the Open Society European Policy Institute,
via email.
The situation Yusef faced in Eritrea forced him to leave. Stricter border controls
did not deter him in striving for a better life, and neither did the rights abuses he
encountered. Yet there is no indication the EU is open to adjusting its migration
management strategy in the face of mounting criticism that its approach in Sudan is
not only ineffective but also causing harm.
"The real root causes of migration are very complex," said Dumond. "You cannot hope
to address all these problems and have quick solutions in a few months."
But a new report from the International Refugee Rights Initiative, The Strategic
Initiative for Women in the Horn of Africa (SIHA), and The Centre for Human Rights
Law at SOAS, University of London, argues that a re-think is urgently needed.
"As barriers are created without sufficient alternatives being offered, people are
taking greater and greater risks and journeys are becoming increasingly dangerous,"
the study found. "The only people benefitting … are the smugglers and traffickers."
Caitlin L. Chandler reported from Sudan with a fellowship from the International
Reporting Project (IRP)
*To protect their identities, sources referred to by a first name only have had their
names changed.
AfricaFocus Bulletin is an independent electronic publication providing reposted
commentary and analysis on African issues, with a particular focus on U.S. and
international policies. AfricaFocus Bulletin is edited by William Minter.
AfricaFocus Bulletin can be reached atafricafocus@igc.org. Please write to this
address to suggest material for inclusion. For more information about reposted
material, please contact directly the original source mentioned. For a full archive
and other resources, seehttp://www.africafocus.org


Title: Soedan: Omar al-Bashir, een geschiedenis van geweld | VRT NWS: nieuws
Keiharde repressie, gratuit staatsgeweld en totale minachting voor het internationaal recht: soms werkt het gewoon. Na dertig jaar zit de Soedanese president al-Bashir nog altijd stevig in het zadel. In dit stuk vertellen we hoe dat kan.
Omar al-Bashir was een boerenzoon die snel opgang maakte. Van kolonel in het Soedanese leger, verantwoordelijk voor operaties tegen opstandelingen in het zuiden, schopte hij het tot leider van het land na een geslaagde legercoup tegen de democratisch verkozen regering in 1989.
Niet dat al-Bashir zelf niet democratisch verkozen is: nadat hij officieel benoemd werd tot president in 1993, won hij verkiezingen in 1996, 2010 en 2015. Zonder veel problemen zelfs, aangezien de opkomst in dalende lijn ging en gedesillusioneerde oppositiepolitici er nog voor de stembusgang al de brui aan gaven.
“S’ils n’ont pas de pain, qu’ils mangent de la brioche!", zou de laatste Franse koningin Marie-Antoinette gesproken hebben toen ze geconfronteerd werd met hongersnood in haar land. Ze zou de laatste koningin worden voor de revolutie die het gezicht van Europa voor altijd zou veranderen. Dat zo’n systeemwissel er in Soedan niet meteen zit aan te komen, houdt de betogers in de hoofdstad Khartoem niet tegen om dezelfde woorden te citeren in oppositiekranten. Al-Bashir en zijn familie baden in luxe terwijl de rest van het land honger lijdt, vinden ze.
Bashir heeft ervaring met een morrende bevolking. Net zomin als hij er al dertig jaar in slaagt om een stabiele vrede te bereiken met de rebellen in het westen, weet hij wat aangevangen met de economische weerslag van de onafhankelijkheid van Zuid-Soedan in 2011, de regio waar voordien 75% van alle Soedanese olievelden lagen.
Of het nu gaat om gewapende rebellen die opstomen naar Khartoem, of zijn eigen burgers die in de straten van diezelfde hoofdstad betogen tegen de hoge broodprijzen, hij antwoordt doorgaans op dezelfde manier: met harde repressie.
Zo’n harde repressie dat het hem twee arrestatiebevelen van het Internationaal Strafhof heeft opgeleverd: voor genocide, oorlogsmisdaden en misdaden tegen de menselijkheid.
“Utter impunity”, totale straffeloosheid. Of “diep uitgesleten patronen van repressie”. Zoomschrijftde mensenrechtenorganisatie HRW de staat van wetteloosheid waarin gewapende milities in Soedan burgers aanvallen, en de almacht van de inlichtingendiensten.
Al sinds 1999 staat het de alomtegenwoordige Soedanese inlichtingendiensten, deNISS, vrij om op eigen initiatief huiszoekingen te doen en burgers zonder aanklacht op te pakken en vast te houden. Activisten, studenten, advocaten, dokters, gemeenschapsleiders, mensenrechtenactivisten en (veronderstelde) critici van de overheid moeten het ontgelden.
De NISS is immuun voor vervolging wegens misdaden die begaan zijn bij het uitvoeren van het werk. Handig
Niet dat de NISS voordien zo'n veel betere reputatie had. Zowel de VN, HRW als Amnesty International (om er maar enkele te noemen) klagen al jarenlang de praktijk aan vanghost houses, geheime detentiecentra waar al sinds de vroege jaren negentig geslagen, mishandeld, verkracht en gemarteld wordt.
Hoe lang het verblijf in zo'n centrum kan duren? Dat hangt ervan af. Vóór 2010 kon die door een resem verlengingen oplopen tot negen maanden. Sindsdien kan het tot 4,5 maand duren voor je zaak nog maar bekeken wordt. In die periode krijg je je familie niet te zien, en is de kans heel groot dat zij ook over jou geen enkele informatie krijgen, noch over je whereabouts, noch over je medische toestand, aldus de hierboven vermelde NGO’s.
Soedan zelf ontkent dat, en zegt dat dagelijks contact tussen de gevangenen en familie mogelijk is.
Zeker is alleszins dat het personeel van de NISS mag doen wat het wil: op basis van de wet uit 1999 is het immers immuun voor vervolging wegens misdaden die begaan zijn bij het uitvoeren van zijn werk. Handig.
Het moet gezegd: naast het creëren van staatsstructuren waarvan de hoofdtaak bestaat uit geweld (NISS, maar ook het Soedanese leger en de politie), is president al-Bashir ook handig in het coöpteren van etnisch geweld.
Toen al-Bashir in 2003 geconfronteerd werd met een opstand van zwart-Afrikaanse stammen in de westelijke regio Darfoer, vertrouwde hij niet exclusief op zijn nationale leger, dat zelf voor een groot deel bestond uit zwart-Afrikanen.
Dus lijfde de president deJanjaweedin, een allegaartje van milities dat gevormd werd uit de nomadische, Arabische streekgenoten van de opstandelingen. Zij konden de zwart-Afrikanen die vooral van veeteelt leven, niet luchten. Om de strijdlust nog wat aan te wakkeren, kregen de Janjaweed te horen dat ze alle veroverde land en plunderwaar mochten houden.
Onder leiding van sjeik Musa Hilal maakten de Janjaweed zich vanaf 2003 op grote schaal schuldig aan etnische zuivering, oorlogsmisdaden tegen de burgerbevolking en plundering; verkrachtten en vermoorden ze duizenden Soedanezen en verdreven ze er 2 miljoen uit hun woonplaats, en belemmerden ze ook nog eens de levering van noodhulp.
Pas in 2008, vijf jaar later dus, zou al-Bashir de VN toelaten in Darfoer.
Net zoals de NISS opereerden ook de Janjaweed in een klimaat van totale straffeloosheid. Musa Hilal zelf verklaarde in een interview met HRW dat de Janjaweed bewapend en aangestuurd werden door het Soedanese leger. “De regering staat aan onze kant, dus je hoeft niets te vrezen”, zociteertiemand uit Hilals kringen de warlord tijdens een gesprek met HRW.
Zelf heeft Bashir altijd alle mogelijke betrokkenheid van de staat bij de Janjaweed ontkend - volgens hen is het gewoon een zootje ongeregeld - hoewel op z’n minst hun samenwerking evident is. Alleen al het door HRW gerapporteerde patroon van aanvallen in Darfoer, waarbij dorpen eerst met luchtbombardementen met de grond gelijk gemaakt werden en de Janjaweed vervolgens het voetwerk deden, wijzen op zijn minst op structurele samenwerking.
Bovendien onderhielden regeringsfunctionarissen en legergeneraals dagelijkse contacten met de stamhoofden die de milities aanstuurden. InThe GuardiangetuigdeMustafa, een ex-Janjaweed, in 2004 over legerhelikopters die wapens en proviand kwamen aanvliegen. Eén regeringssoldaatverteldeHRW zelfs dat Soedanese legertrucks in 2003 plunderwaar - kleren, meubels en vee - tot aan de kampen van de Janjaweed-stammen brachten.
Als klap op de vuurpijl werd Hilal, na jaren van internationale verontwaardiging, in 2008 benoemd tot hoofdadviseur van Binnenlandse Zaken. Aan dat bondgenootschap is (zoals zovele andere die al-Bashir ooit aanging) intussen wel een einde gekomen: Hilal werd eind 2017 opgepakt in het noorden van Darfoer na schermutselingen tussen zijn milities en het Soedanese leger.
Tijd voor oude bondgenoten in nieuwe pakken, moet Al-Bashir in 2013 gedacht hebben, en dus richtte hij deRapid Support Force(RSF) op. Hoofdaanklager Fatou Bensouda van het Internationaal Strafhof noemde hen “de nieuwste incarnatie van de Janjaweed”.
Daarnaast zijn het ook de antimigratietroepen van Bashir.
De RSF werd opgericht als militair antwoord tegen de telkens weer oplaaiende gewapende opstanden in o.a. Darfoer, en staat onder het bevel van de inlichtingendiensten. Bij de operaties die de RSF uitvoeren, tekent zich het welbekende patroon af: terwijl het Soedanese leger voor luchtsteun zorgt, voert de RSF het werk op de grond uit - soms zelfs in samenwerking met overblijvende Janjaweed-milities.
HRW onderzocht de twee eerste gewapende campagnes van het RSF in Darfoer, enbeslootop basis van 151 getuigenissen dat “de RSF en andere Soedanese regeringstroepen zware schendingen van de internationale mensenrechten en het humanitair recht begaan hebben”.
Voor wie vertrouwd is met de methodes van de Janjaweed, klinkt de lange lijst van beschuldigingen al even bekend in de oren: burgers op de vlucht jagen, hele dorpen uitmoorden, waterputten vernietigen, plunderingen en groepsverkrachtingen. “Veel burgers werden gedood door het RSF toen ze weigerden hun huizen te verlaten of hun vee op te geven, of wanneer ze RSF-strijders probeerden te verhinderen om hen of hun familie te verkrachten”, constateerde HRW. Het rapport heeft het over oorlogsmisdaden die systematisch en op grote schaal worden uitgevoerd.
In 2014melddeThe Enough Project, dat wereldwijd onderzoek doet naar genocide, dat de nieuwe staatsmilities geleid worden door Soedanese legergeneraals en topfiguren van de Janjaweed. “Na jaren waarin het regime zichzelf probeerde te distantiëren van deze terreurtroepen, doet het nu zelfs niet eens meer de moeite om de associatie met deze oorlogsmisdadigers te verbergen”, merkte Enough toen op.
In een rapport van mei 2014verteldenVN-medewerkers hoe de RSF in maart van dat jaar burgers verkrachtten en vermoordden en voor hun ogen een vluchtelingenkamp platbrandden, allemaal in Khor Abeche in het zuiden van Darfoer. Zij bevestigden het categoriek: het ging om regeringstroepen.
Al-Bashir blijft zich gedragen alsof hij onaantastbaar is. Hij is het ook gewoon
De Soedanese ambassadeur in Washington ontkende de bevindingen van Enough en het Internationaal Strafhof. “De RSF zijn heel gedisciplineerde troepen.”
Niet dat die rapporten de RSF, of het Soedanese regime, op andere ideeën brachten. In 2016 nog voerden ze minstens twee militaireoperatiesuit, waaronder één tegen de inwoners van de stad Ed Damazin. Ze waren in opstand gekomen tegen… de brutale methodes van de RSF.
Laat het nu net de RSF zijn die aan de Soedanese landsgrenzen patrouilleren, op zoek naar migranten die ze kunnen uitleveren aan de staat. “De EU zou de RSF beter bedanken”, sneerde RSF-commandant Mohamed “Hemeti” Hamdan Dagalo in 2016. Hij zei toen ookmet zoveel woordendat de RSF voor de EU optreden tegen mensensmokkel van Soedan naar Libië.
Discreet is de RSFallerminstover die antimigratie-operaties. In de Soedanese pers duiken geregeld berichten op over het aantal migranten dat daarbij onderschept wordt, en hun nationaliteit. Daarbijonderstrepende bevoegde generaals ook hun loyaliteit aan president al-Bashir.
En al-Bashir, die blijft zich, net zoals de voorbije dertig jaar, gedragen alsof hij onaantastbaar is.
Hijishet ook gewoon.
Volg VRT NWS op je smartphone of tablet via de VRT NWS app.
Ben je getuige van een nieuwsfeit of heb je zelf nieuws te melden?

Title: UNICEF Sudan Humanitarian Situation Report, January 2018 - Sudan | ReliefWeb
Sudan+ 1 more
Highlights
• In line with the New Way of Working agenda promoted by the UN Secretary General, UNICEF-led sectors have contributed to a new strategy of the 2018 Sudan Humanitarian Fund (SHF) allocation which promotes greater efficiency for integrated interventions among partners and focuses on specific populations in need including IDPS, refugees and communities at high risk to disease outbreaks such as AWD.
• UNICEF, as part of the National Technical Committee on the Action Plan to end the recruitment and use of children in armed conflict, conducted a mission to the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) headquarters located in Nyala, South Darfur State to help strengthen appropriate recruitment procedures.
• In January, UNICEF supported delivery of primary health care (PHC) services to the vulnerable children in Jebel Marra localities in Central Darfur. Some 14 Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) kits were provided for 140,000 children to meet the health need. Moreover, 24 community health workers were trained to provide quality integrated community case management (ICCM). Accordingly, 8,437 children benefited from outpatient services including immunization, treatment of common childhood illnesses and referral for the malnourished children to stabilization centers. Also, 114 children under one year were supported to receive measles vaccination.
SITUATION IN NUMBERS
2,300,000 children in need
4,800,000 people# of people who need Humanitarian Assistance (Source: Sudan Humanitarian Needs Overview 2017)
1,100,000 children internally displaced
2,300,000 people# of internally displaced people (Source: Sudan Humanitarian Needs Overview 2017)
500,572 South Sudanese refugee children
770,110 people# of South Sudanese refugees in Sudan in total
UNICEF Appeal 2018 US$ 96.54 million
Situation Overview and Humanitarian Needs
In some areas of East Jebel Marra locality, South Darfur, internal fighting between two armed groups resulted in forced displacement of more than 600 people, mainly women and children since mid-December 2017. UNICEF, the United Nations-African Union Mission in Darfur (UNAMID) and other humanitarian agencies are closely monitoring the ongoing conflict that impacts the relief activities in the locality. Some of the villages in the locality including Leiba town have not been reached by humanitarian support since 2011 because of the insecurity, while, in December 2017, a total of 47 children were identified as severe acute malnutrition in Leiba town and all of them were admitted to appropriate treatment as the first group receiving life-saving intervention first time since seven years. UNICEF plans to accelerate the integrated response with partners and the state government in newly accessible areas by addressing the challenges that constrain effective service delivery, such as lack of qualified staff, transportation of supplies to end users and security of the population living in the locality.
The number of reported Acute Watery Diarrhoea (AWD) cases remains low across Sudan, with 98 suspected cases registered between 17 December 2017 and 13 January 2018 mainly in Red Sea State6 . Overall, more than 36,000 cases have been observed across the 18 states of Sudan since August 2016. UNICEF and partners are working on preventing AWD mainly through water, sanitation and hygiene promotion efforts as well as developing an integrated response plan with Ministry of Health and WHO focusing on oral cholera vaccine (OCV) campaigns, behavioural change engagement, increased access to safe water resources, improved access to primary health care services and nutritional programmes, as well as strengthening capacity development of partners and service providers at the identified localities by building on the best practices and lessons learned from the response in 2017.
In total, 770,110 South Sudanese refugees are currently living in Sudan, including approximately 500,000 children (65 per cent). Since 1st to 15th January 2018, 3,064 new refugees including around 2,000 children have arrived from South Sudan. The number of new arrivals is forecasted to increase during the dry season which is more conducive to population movements. 78 per cent of all the South Sudanese refugees stay at out-of-camp settlements. To ensure that the needs of unregistered refugees are identified, assessments are being conducted in non-camp locations. UNICEF is taking an approach to increase refugee’s access to the existing basic services and local infrastructures by promoting inclusivity and cohesion of the refugees and the host community. In North Darfur, UNICEF use the educational support as an entry point for integrating South Sudanese refugees to the communities by organising sessions for school communities. However, there are a challenge in securing enough resource to cover the needs.
Sudan+ 1 more
Sudan+ 1 more
Sudan+ 1 more
Sudan+ 1 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Three journalists covering Sudan protests still in detention - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
A reporter at the scene of the large protest march in Khartoum Bahri this week has been arrested by the security service. Reporters Without Borders (RSF) expressed its extreme concern about the week-long detention of other journalists.
Areporter at the scene of thelarge protest march in Khartoum Bahri this week has been arrested by the security service. Reporters Without Borders (RSF) expressed its extreme concernabout the week-long detention of other journalists.
During the anticipated protest march inKhartoum Bahrion Wednesday, the Sudanese security service arrested journalist Ahmed Jadein while he was covering the protest. In addition, all printed copies of daily newspapers ofEl JareedaandEl Midan.
El Jareedaeditor-in-chief Ashraf Abdelaziz, for whom Jadein was reporting, told Radio Dabanga that he received a phone call from a security officer on Wednesday evening. “He asked whether the headlines on Thursday’s paper included coverage of marches, and I affirmed.
“On Thursday, security officers confiscated the newspaper for the third time since the beginning of the protests against the rise of prices in January. Our coverage of the demonstrations is professional and had put the events in a proper framework. We highlighted the peacefulness of the marches and the boldness of the demonstrators.”
Abdelaziz added that the repeated confiscations of newspapers cost them great material and moral losses. “In addition the readers lack access to the newspaper.”
The editor-in-chief denounced the arrest of journalist Ahmed Jadein. “We sent Ahmed to cover the march and our administration is making efforts with the media department of the security service to release him.”
Also the Sudanese Journalists Network condemned his arrest, in addition to the continued detentions of journalists Amal Habani and Kamal Karrar.
‘Habani’s illegally detained’
Reporters Without Borders (RSF) renewed its statement concerning the Sudanese journalist Amal Habani who has been held in detention in Khartoum since January 16 for covering one of the price hike protests.
In a statement sent to Radio Dabanga the international media freedom advocacy organisation reported that security agents hit her with steel and electric rods at the time of Habani’s arrest, causing her to suffer palpitations and breathing problems, and to lose consciousness.
“We demand the immediate release of Amal Habani, who has been mistreated and whose detention is completely arbitrary,” RSF editor-in-chief Virginie Dangles said. “We are very concerned and we fear that her already fragile health could get much worse.”
Habani, a reporter forEl Taghyeernews website, has been detained for more than two weeks in a women’s prison in Omdurman and not allowed access to a lawyer. No formal charge has been brought against her.
RSF said that human rights lawyers filed a constitutional appeal on January 29, describing her arrest and detention as illegal. Members of her family have been able to see her but they have not been able to ask her any questions about the state of her health, and they do not know if she has been given the medicine she needs for her high blood pressure.
Habani was awarded an Amnesty International prize for her human rights reporting in Sudan. She was among a number of journalists arrested on16 and 17 Januarywhile covering protest marches in Khartoum and Omdurman.
Sudan remains near the bottom ofRSF’s World Press Freedom Index, in which it is currently ranked 174th out of 180 countries.
Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: South Darfur, UN, Unamid to plan voluntary return in the state - Sudan | ReliefWeb
Sudan
The South Darfur government, the UN-AU peacekeeping Mission in Darfur (Unamid), and UN agencies in Sudan will cooperate to facilitate the voluntary return of the hundreds of thousands of displaced people in the state.
During a joint meeting in Nyala on Friday, the South Darfur government and representatives of the UN-AU peacekeeping Mission in Darfur (Unamid) and UN agencies in Sudan agreed to establish a joint committee.
This committee will develop a plan for voluntary returns and guarantee a secure and stable situation and social peace in the state, the Sudanese News Agency (SUNA) reported on Saturday.
Governor Adam El Faki said that Unamid translated the Strategy Matrix for the Development and Stability of South Darfur from Arabic to English, and delivered it to all UN agencies and organisations operating in the state, so that they can work according to the document.
Social peace
As for the joint plan for voluntary return, the governor said the issues that need to be worked out are security and stability, and social peace. The rule of law needs to be restored by boosting the capacity of the police in the state, as well as the capacity of the judiciary and the competences of the popular courts.
Another important issue concerns social peace in the region, which requires projects that will ease the tension between farmers and herders.
The voluntary return process will contain three kinds of projects. The displaced may return to their villages, the camps may be transformed into residential areas, or the displaced will be resettled in new town districts.
Security
The head of the Unamid South Sector, Berhanemeskel Nega, commented that security and stability are the top priority of the Mission in Sudan’s conflict-torn western region.
He pointed out that Unamid’s mandate is now building peace and stability in the entire region of Darfur, in addition to peacekeeping in Jebel Marra. and called for the involvement of displaced leaders and civil administration in the joint committee.
The development of the plan and the coordination of efforts are important elements in building peace and stability in the Darfur communities, Nega said. Hence the importance of a concrete plan at a specific time, developed by the South Darfur government, the UN, and Unamid.
South Darfur Police Chief Balla El Hussein called for temporary extra police support in the areas of voluntary return.
The youth among the displaced should be encouraged to join the police in their areas to secure the villages of voluntary return, he said.
Model villages
In February 2016, the UN and the government of Sudan signed documents worth $ 88.5 million in contributions from Qatar for development projects in all Darfur states over a period of nearly two years. In August 2017, Doha granted another $ 70 million for the construction of 'model villages' in Darfur.
Most of the Darfur displaced categorically reject returning home or relocation to model villages as they consider the situation far from secure enough to leave the camps.
In August last year, Khartoum started a massive disarmament campaign in Darfur in an attempt to stabilise the region.
Hand-over
In June last year, the UN Security Council passed Resolution 2363 that renewed Unamid's mandate with another year, yet with a reduction of more than a third of the nearly 19,000 Unamid military troops and police officers present in Darfur.
Unamid said in a press statement in September that a number of its team sites are handed over to the Sudanese government or appropriate private parties as per lease agreements.
The peacekeeping mission responded to claims by Darfur rebel movements that it had handed sites “to the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) government militia”.
According to the armed opposition, the agreement signed between Khartoum and Unamid on the reduction of the peacekeeping troops stipulates that any property left by the mission should be handed to the local authorities, and is to be used for civilian purposes only.
Sudan
Sudan+ 7 more
Sudan+ 6 more
Sudan+ 7 more
Related Platforms
Other OCHA Services


ReliefWeb's Terms & Conditions.
© 2024 all rights reserved.

Title: Without meaningful change Sudan will descend into chaos | Opinions | Al Jazeera
Economic failures, armed conflicts, and power struggles within the regime have pushed Sudan towards a tipping point.
Sudan’s political crisis has reached its worst since the coup led by PresidentOmar Hassan al-Bashirin June 1989. Thecollapsing economy, ongoing armed conflicts between the regime and armed movements in theDarfur, South Kordofan and Blue Nilestates, endemic corruption, and the power struggle within the regime have pushed the country towards a tipping point.
Coupled with current popular protests over the 2018 austerity budget that are gathering momentum across Sudan, these factors create the conditions that will result in one of two scenarios in Sudan: either swift and meaningful change, or descent into chaos and disintegration. Without meaningful domestic, regional and international efforts tofacilitatea credible, all-inclusive conference that leads to a fresh political transition, Sudan will be reduced to the latter.
Anti-austerity popular protestseruptedwhen the government announced the 2018 budget last month. Economists and financial experts havedescribedthe new budget as a “catastrophic” measure thatallots75 percent of the country’s funds to the regime’s security apparatus and militias.
These experts are not wrong. The new budget has made the lives of average Sudanese citizens unbearable. Thepricesof basic needs and commodities, including bread, medicine, fuel, and electricity have reached an unprecedented level. The Sudanese currency is losing its value daily – one US dollar, while officially worth 18 Sudanese pounds, is nowselling for42 Sudanese pounds on the black market.
To top this all off, the Central Bank of Sudan is issuing new regulations in a rapid-fire manner. Rather than addressing the collective collapse of the Sudanese commercial markets, national currency and banking system, the government’s only response has beenprinting more money.
Sudan’s former finance minister, Abdel Rahim Hamdi, has commented that the government is losing control of the economy and should let the market determine the price of the pound, which would, in turn, encourage foreign investment and reinvigorate the economy.
On 16 January, the Sudanese Communist Party led a peaceful demonstration in Khartoum after authorities rejected their request to mobilise and submit a memorandum on the new budget. The protest was joined by Sudan’s main opposition groups, youth activists and average citizens.
Since then, other popular protests have mobilised, and not only in Khartoum but also in other cities and regions of Sudan, such as El Obeid, Nyala, Wad Madani and Port Sudan. Mainstream opposition leaders who were criticised for declining to participate in the 2013 protests now say they plan tosustain this momentumuntil the masses are large enough to defeat this regime.
Unsurprisingly, the regime and security forces havecracked downon both demonstrators and opposition leaders. So far,five civilianshave been killed during peaceful protests (a student in Nyala city and four internally displaced residents of the Hasahisa camp in central Darfur), and more than 20 injured.
Dozens of protesters, opposition leaders and journalists, including Mohamed Mukhtar al-Khatib, secretary-general of the Sudanese Communist Party,were arrestedby Sudanese security forces on the first day of protests. That list has grown to include journalist Amal Habbani, AFP reporter Abdulmoniem Abu Idriss, deputy leader of the Umma Party Sara Nagdallah and Darfur Bar Association Secretary-General Mohamed Abdallah el-Doma.
During the September 2013 revolt, more than 200 peaceful demonstratorswere killed, and there are fearsthatthe regime could resort to a similar brutal crackdown to ensure its survival and stop citizens from mobilising.
Political tensions are not limited to the popular protests in Sudan. There is a knownriftbetween Bashir and his long-time confidant, first vice president and prime minister, GeneralBakri Hassan Saleh, and it continues to widen. Saleh has been rumoured to be the US and some Gulf countries’ favoured replacement for Bashir.
Last month, many Sudanese newspapers reported that Ibrahim Ghandour, the foreign minister, had presented hisresignationto Bashir, complaining about interference in his ministerial portfolio. However, he withdrew his resignation after reported interventions of some leading figures in the government.
Ongoing power struggles within the government also encouraged parts of the regime’s old guard to re-enter the political game from different directions. Former Vice President Ali Osman Taha is angling to help Bashir win the 2020 elections, while the founder of the National Intelligence and Security Service (NISS) and Bashir’s former senior assistant, Nafie Ali Nafie, is forming alliances with Saleh to prevent Bashir (and Taha) from returning to power in 2020.
Hence, in his attempt to prepare the ground for his re-election in 2020, on February 11, 2018, Bashir hasre-appointedone of the controversial, divisive and ambitious members of the regime’s old guard, General Salah Abdallah (also known as Gosh), as director of the National Intelligence and Security Services (NISS). He is a strong supporter of Bashir’s re-election in 2020.
Gosh was removed from his post as NISS’s director in 2009, and in 2012 he was detained alongside 13 other officers for allegedly plotting a coup against the regime. Nevertheless, he was abruptly released in 2013. In 2006, Gosh was listed by the UN Panel of Experts on Darfur as one of the 17 people responsible for the heinous crimes committed in Darfur. Gosh is also widely perceived as the architect of thecollaborationbetween NISS and the CIA, especially during the period of Bush administration, since the early 2000s.
Unfortunately, and in typical fashion, regional and international responses to the current heavy crackdown and mass arrest of peaceful demonstrators have beenslow and cautious.
Bashir’s regime has failed to implement even the reforms it committed to in its own national dialogue – journalists continue to be targeted and Bashir’s militias, such as his “personal army”, or theRapid Support Forces(RSF), continue to operate with impunity.
To date, the regime still has no solution to the collapsing economy and austerity budget that are placing an intolerable burden on the Sudanese people.It is evident that Bashir’s top priority is to hang on to power at all cost. The Sudanese army, whichwas once regardedas a unifier of the Sudanese people, can no longer be counted on as guarantor of peace and stability.
Sudan cannot survive like this until the 2020 elections. Bashir’s regime will continue to use the army andmilitiasforhisown survival. Bashir will also likelyexploitthe RSF’s participation in the Yemen war by asking the Saudis and Emiratis to save his economy. Neither of these tactics offers a permanent solution to Sudan’s problems.
Peace talks between the Sudanese government and Sudan People’s Liberation Movement (SPLM/N) facilitated by the African Union High-Level Panel of Implementation (AUHIP) in Addis Ababa earlier this monthfailedto reach any deal on a cessation of hostilities or humanitarian access to the South Kordofan and Blue Nile states, and were neither inclusivenorcomprehensive.
Bashir iswantedby the International Criminal Court (ICC) for crimes against humanity, war crimes and genocide in Darfur, yet, under the Obama administration, the USwelcomedrapprochement with Sudan to collaborate on counterterrorism and migration. Under the Trump administration, the US hasremoved20-year-old sanctions on Sudan to continue the rapprochement policy initiated by Obama.
In short, despite the gravity of the situation, the international community lacks a unified, coherent and practical strategy to put Sudan on a more stable political and economic path. Economists such as Professor Hamid El-Tigani Ali of the American University in Cairobelievethe Sudanese economy will completely collapse within a few months if there is no urgent plan to save it.
Over the next few months, popular protests will continue, particularly with opposition and youth activists gaining more confidence in the power ofmobilisation. But despite Sudanese demands for reform, disorderly change would have a serious impact on citizens and the economy, as well as on regional and international peace and security. The only successful Sudanese scenario would include swift, inclusive and meaningful democratic transition with clear benchmarks.
Key regional and international players must swiftly push for the appointment of a credible and capable international envoy with a clear mandate to facilitate an all-inclusive national conference. There is no other way for Sudan to avoid chaos and disintegration.
The international communityshould stopshying away from its moral and legal obligations; they must pressure the Sudanese government to release all political detainees and guarantee fundamental freedoms, as well as insist that the Sudanese government comply with international human rights laws in Darfur, South Kordofan and Blue Nile.
The views expressed in this article are the author’s own and do not necessarily reflect Al Jazeera’s editorial stance.









Follow Al Jazeera English:

Title: Soudan : Libération immédiate de la journaliste Amal Habani - Afriques en Lutte
D13 février 2018H04:07AReporters sans frontièresC0messages
Reporters sans frontières (RSF) exprime sa plus vive inquiétude quant au sort de la journaliste Amal Habani, arrêtée le 16 janvier 2018 par les services de renseignement et de sécurité soudanais (NISS). L’organisation de défense de la liberté de la presse appelle les autorités à la libérer sans délai.
Cela fait maintenant plus de deux semaines qu’Amal Habani, journaliste pour le site en ligne Al-Taghyir, est détenue arbitrairement dans une des cellules des NISS à la prison pour femmes à Omdourman, au nord-ouest de Khartoum. Aucune charge officielle n’a été retenue contre elle. La journaliste n’a toujours pas eu accès à un avocat, bien que six d’entre eux, spécialistes des droits de l’homme, ont lancé le 29 janvier un recours constitutionnel pour condamner son arrestation et sa détention.
Pour l’instant, des membres de sa famille ont pu la voir, mais ils n’ont pas été autorisés à lui poser des questions sur son état actuel. Ils ne savent pas non plus si elle a pu recevoir les médicaments dont elle a besoin pour soigner son hypertension.
Amal Habani, qui est également lauréate du prix Amnesty International pour son travail sur les droits de l’Homme au Soudan, a été arrêtée le 16 janvier dernier par les services de renseignement et de sécurité soudanais (NISS) alors qu’elle couvrait les manifestations contre la hausse des prix du pain, à Khartoum. Selon des informations recueillies par RSF, au moment de son interpellation, la journaliste a été frappée à coups de matraques en fer et électriques ce qui a entraîné des palpitations, des troubles respiratoires et une perte de conscience.
"Amal Habani a subi des mauvais traitements, son maintien en détention est totalement arbitraire, nous exigeons sa libération immédiate. Nous sommes très inquiets et craignons que son état de santé, déjà fragile, ne se détériore davantage, alerte Virginie Dangles, rédactrice en chef de RSF."
Amal Habani fait partie de ces quinze journalistes qui avaient été arrêtés, les 16 et 17 janvier, lors de ces marches de protestation qui ont secoué la capitale soudanaise et Omdourman. Tous, à l’exception d’Amal Habani, ont été libérés.
16 août –‘We survive together’ : The communal kitchens fighting famine in Khartoum
14 août –Sudanese refugees trapped in Ethiopian forest call for ‘immediate evacuation’
10 août –Égypte. Les autorités doivent mettre fin à la campagne d’arrestations massives et de retours forcés de réfugié·e·s soudanais
27 juin –Au Soudan, en finir avec les fauteurs de guerre
19 juin –A mutual aid volunteer reflects on a year of war in Sudan
1.ALIMENTATION : Réduire la faim, soutenir les femmes agricultrices
2.Déclaration à propos de la menace du gouvernement britannique de priver d’aide les pays qui violent les droits des personnes LGBTI en Afrique
3.Angola : Isabel dos Santos, Honour and Lies
4.La voix des Sahraouis étouffée au cœur de l’Europe
5.Botswana : LABOUR TRANSFORMATION, THE DYNAMICS AND CHALLENGES IN A DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY
1.Procès inique et nouvelle guerre en Casamance
2.A Life of Critical Engagement : An Interview with Issa Shivji
3.Madagascar - Syndicat des greffiers : De nouveau en grève
4.Cameroun : Take Action : Free Nasako Besingi !
5.Sierra Leone : Les réformes éducatives devraient tenir compte des voix des filles
1.Le président de l’Assemblée nationale, Claude Bartolone, s’oppose à l’ouverture d’une commission d’enquête parlementaire sur l’assassinat de Thomas Sankara
2.‘People started to point the finger’ : How the M23 conflict endangers DR Congo’s Tutsi communities
3.Against all odds : the union’s victory to elevate the status of college lecturers in Zimbabwe
4.Améliorer l’accès à l’eau dans les villes burkinabées
5.Mali : quatre ans après le coup d’État, répression systématique et climat de terreur règnent
12345
Afriques en lutte est un collectif de militant(e)s anticapitalistes membres ou non de plusieurs organisations politiques. Ce site présente les articles parus dans le bulletin (envoi gratuit sur simple demande) ou d’autres publications amies. Notre objectif est de diffuser, à partir d’un point de vue militant, un maximum d’informations (politiques, économiques, sociales et culturelles) sur le continent africain et sa diaspora.
Si les articles présents sur ce site reflètent une démarche volontairement ouverte et pluraliste, leurs contenus n’engagent, bien évidemment, que leurs auteur-e-s. Tous les commentaires sont bienvenus. La rédaction se réserve toutefois le droit de les modérer : les propos injurieux, racistes, sexistes, homophobes, diffamatoires, à caractère pornographique, pédophile, ou contenant des incitations à la haine ne seront pas publiés.
Pour nous contacter : afriquesenlutte@gmail.com
2024Afriques en LutteArchives|Se connecter|Contact

Title: South Darfur, UN, Unamid to plan voluntary return in the state - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
The South Darfur government, the UN-AU peacekeeping Mission in Darfur (Unamid), and UN agencies in Sudan will cooperate to facilitate the voluntary return of the hundreds of thousands of displaced people in the state.During a joint meeting in Nyala on Friday, the South Darfur government and representatives of the UN-AU peacekeeping Mission in Darfur (Unamid) and UN agencies in Sudan agreed to establish a joint committee.This committee will develop a plan for voluntary returns and guarantee a secure and stable situation and social peace in the state, the Sudanese News Agency (SUNA) reported on Saturday.
The South Darfur government, the UN-AU peacekeeping Mission in Darfur (Unamid), and UN agencies in Sudan will cooperate to facilitate the voluntary return of the hundreds of thousands of displaced people in the state.
During a joint meeting in Nyala on Friday, the South Darfur government and representatives of the UN-AU peacekeeping Mission in Darfur (Unamid) and UN agencies in Sudan agreed to establish a joint committee.
This committee will develop a plan for voluntary returns and guarantee a secure and stable situation and social peace in the state, the Sudanese News Agency (SUNA)reported on Saturday.
Governor Adam El Faki said that Unamid translated the Strategy Matrix for the Development and Stability of South Darfur from Arabic to English, and delivered it to all UN agencies and organisations operating in the state, so that they can work according to the document.
Social peace
As for the joint plan for voluntary return, the governor said the issues that need to be worked out are security and stability, and social peace. The rule of law needs to be restored by boosting the capacity of the police in the state, as well as the capacity of the judiciary and the competences of the popular courts.
Another important issue concerns social peace in the region, which requires projects that will ease the tension between farmers and herders.
The voluntary return process will contain three kinds of projects. The displaced may return to their villages, the camps may be transformed into residential areas, or the displaced will be resettled in new town districts.
Security
The head of the Unamid South Sector, Berhanemeskel Nega, commented that security and stability are the top priority of the Mission in Sudan’s conflict-torn western region.
He pointed out that Unamid’s mandate is now building peace and stability in the entire region of Darfur, in addition to peacekeeping in Jebel Marra. and called for the involvement of displaced leaders and civil administration in the joint committee.
The development of the plan and the coordination of efforts are important elements in building peace and stability in the Darfur communities, Nega said. Hence the importance of a concrete plan at a specific time, developed by the South Darfur government, the UN, and Unamid.
South Darfur Police Chief Balla El Hussein called for temporary extra police support in the areas of voluntary return.
The youth among the displaced should be encouraged to join the police in their areas to secure the villages of voluntary return, he said.
Model villages
In February 2016, the UN and the government of Sudan signed documentsworth $ 88.5 millionin contributions from Qatar for development projects in all Darfur states over a period of nearly two years. In August 2017, Doha grantedanother $ 70 millionfor the construction of 'model villages' in Darfur.
Most of the Darfur displaced categoricallyreject returning homeor relocation tomodel villagesas they consider the situationfar from secureenough to leave the camps.
InAugust last year, Khartoum started a massive disarmament campaign in Darfur in an attempt to stabilise the region.
Hand-over
In June last year, the UN Security Councilpassed Resolution 2363that renewed Unamid's mandate with another year, yet with a reduction of more than a third of the nearly 19,000 Unamid military troops and police officers present in Darfur.
Unamid said in apress statement in Septemberthat a number of its team sites are handed over to the Sudanese government or appropriate private parties as per lease agreements.
The peacekeeping mission responded to claims by Darfur rebel movements that it had handed sites “to the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) government militia”.
According to thearmed opposition, the agreement signed between Khartoum and Unamid on the reduction of the peacekeeping troops stipulates that any property left by the mission should be handed to the local authorities, and is to be used for civilian purposes only.
Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: 
	Tolerance.ca® - Inde : RSF demande la libération immédiate du photographe kashmiri Kamran Yousuf

Lire l'article complet

Title: 6686 bet - Nhà cái uy tín nhất - Cược Euro 2024 hoàn 40%
6686 Vip là nhà cái uy tín số 1 Việt Nam, tham gia cá độ bóng đá tại nhà cái 6686 bet nhận ưu đãi khủng, tặng 6686k hoàn cược 40%.
✚ Đăng ký✍ Đăng nhập
★★★★★
👑 Hoàn trả mỗi ngày lên đến 2%
🎰 Bảo hiểm cược đầu 100%
🔥 Mưa lì xì mỗi ngày - có tài khoản là có lì xì
★★★★★
🔥 Nạp tiền tặng ngay 1%.
🔥 Quà tặng may mắn ngẫu nhiên hàng tuần.
★★★★★
🔥 Hội viên mới nạp lần đầu tặng 30%, lần 2 tặng 15%.
🔥 Điểm danh mỗi ngày nhận ngay thưởng hot.
★★★★★
🔥 Cược nổ hũ thắng thua đều Hoàn Trả 20%.
🔥 Hoàn trả mỗi ngày lên đến 2%.
★★★★
🔥 khuyến mãi nạp đầu dành cho hội viên mới lên đến 10.668.000đ.
🔥 Phao cứu trợ tuần, tiền thưởng lên đến 18.888.000đ.
Bạn đang tìm một địa chỉ uy tín trong lĩnh vực cá cược trực tuyến, cung cấp đa dạng các trò chơi đa dạng từ thể thao, casino đến game bắn cá. Với dịch vụ chuyên nghiệp và tiện ích, hướng tới việc mang lại trải nghiệm giải trí tốt nhất cho người chơi, hãy đến với6686VN VIP.

Khám phá trang cá độ bóng đá hàng đầu tại Việt Nam.
6686 bet là nhà cái uy tín cá cược thể thao Việt Nam, 6686bet có nhiều trò chơi cá cược như game bài - nổ hũ - cá cược bóng đá, chơi game 6686  hoàn cược 40%.
Nhà cái6686vn VipLogoGiấy phépPhilippines cấp phép 6686vn Vip chuẩnPAGCORĐiện thoại0979333786Email6686vnvip@gmail.comTrụ sở chínhManila, PhilippinesVăn phòng VN12 Trần Phú, Phường 2, Quận 5, Thành phố Hồ Chí Minh, VietnamĐang online193,675 thành viên đang chơiThành viên8,881,766 tài khoản đã đăng ký
Một điểm đến lý tưởng cho những người yêu thích thể thao và muốn trải nghiệm cảm giác đặt cược trực tiếp và tận hướng các trận đấu trực tiếp bóng đá đỉnh cao. Người chơi có thể tham gia vào các cược trước trận và cược trực tiếp, tận hưởng không khí kịch tính và hấp dẫn của từng trận đấu.
Khi bạn tham gia cá cược bóng đá, bóng rổ hay bất kỳ bộ môn thể thao nào cũng được nhận tỷ lệ trả thưởng ưu đãi cực cao. Nhà cái6686đưa ra các kèo bóng đá cực hấp dẫn, đặc biệt là kèo tỷ số, kèo rung và kèo phạt góc.

Sự ưa chuộng của anh em đam mê cá cược thể thao.
6686vn vip đã trở thành một trong các nhà cái uy tín hàng đầu Việt Nam với nhiều lý do đáng chú ý như sau:

Đa dạng sảnh cá cược cực hấp dẫn
Trang cá độ bóng đá 6686 cung cấp rất nhiều sảnh chơi cá cược thể thao, tuy nhiên dưới đây là top 3 sảnh chơi thể thao hấp dẫn được nhiều người lựa chọn nhất:

Đa dạng các loại game cho anh em lựa chọn.
Nhà cái uy tín 6686 không chỉ là nơi để tham gia vào các cược trực tiếp trên các trận đấu bóng đá, mà còn cung cấp một loạt các trò chơi đổi thưởng khác nhau, tạo ra một trải nghiệm giải trí đa dạng và phong phú cho người chơi. Dưới đây là một số loại game đổi thưởng mà nhà cái cung cấp:
Sảnh chơi slot game là nơi mà bạn sẽ được trải nghiệm những tựa game theo phong cách quay biểu tượng trả thưởng.
Cách chơi của dòng game này rất đơn giản, bạn chỉ cần quay thưởng với những biểu tượng có trong game và chờ đợi để ăn thưởng. Giải thưởng cao nhất cho dòng game slot có thể lên đến hàng chục tỷ đồng, chính vì thế mà dù cơ hội nổ hũ rất thấp thì sảnh chơi này vẫn thu hút hàng ngàn người chơi mỗi ngày.
Hiện tại, sảnh chơi game slots 6686 đang có hơn 300 sản phẩm đến từ nhiều nhà phát hành khác nhau. Nhưng để mà nói về sự hấp dẫn và chất lượng thì những cái tên dưới đây bạn không nên bỏ qua:
Với những tựa game bắn cá cũng sẽ có giải thưởng Jackpot (nổ hũ). Đó là khi game thủ tiêu diệt được những loài cá lớn, cá khủng hoặc những con boss xuất hiện ở cuối màn chơi. Nếu tiêu diệt được thì bet thủ sẽ ăn thưởng nổ hũ lên đến hàng chục triệu đồng. Ví dụ như trong game Nhị Gia Bắn Cá, nếu bạn tiêu diệt được Nàng Tiên Cá xuất hiện ở màn chơi đặc biệt thì sẽ ăn thưởng lên đến 80 triệu đồng.
Một phiên bản nâng cấp hơn của game bài đó là game casino. Trong đây, họ liên kết cùng những đơn vị phát hành lớn như Dream Gaming, AE Sexy, WM, Evolution, Motivation, SA Gaming, Play Tech, Big Gaming, Top Player, DB, Micro Gaming để tạo nên sảnh live casino hiện đại bậc nhất. Với sảnh game casino  thì bạn sẽ được trải nghiệm với 5 bộ môn đó là: Baccarat, Tài xỉu, Xóc đĩa, Roulette, Rồng hổ
Một thế giới của những quân bài, mỗi lá bài là một câu chuyện, một trải nghiệm mới. Từ những trận đấu đầy căng thẳng và chiến thuật trong Xì dách và Poker, đến những khoảnh khắc vui vẻ và đậm chất dân dã trong Sâm lốc và Mậu binh, thế giới của game bài là một thế giới đa dạng và phong phú.
Xì dách và Poker, hai trò chơi mang đậm bản sắc của các casino lớn, thu hút người chơi bởi sự căng thẳng và cạnh tranh cao ngất. Đòi hỏi không chỉ kỹ năng mà còn là sự tinh tế và kiên nhẫn, những trận đấu trong Xì dách và Poker thường mang lại cho người chơi những cảm xúc mãnh liệt và không ngừng kỳ vọng vào kết quả cuối cùng.
Sâm lốc và Mậu binh, hai trò chơi gắn liền với hình ảnh của những bàn cờ trà đá, là nơi mà bạn bè và gia đình có thể sum họp và tận hưởng những phút giây vui vẻ bên nhau. Với quy tắc đơn giản và dễ hiểu, Sâm lốc và Mậu binh không chỉ là trò chơi mà còn là cơ hội để tạo ra những kỷ niệm đáng nhớ.
Bài cào, Tá lả và Trác kim hoa, những trò chơi nhẹ nhàng và lôi cuốn, thường được sử dụng để giải tỏa căng thẳng và tạo ra một không gian giải trí thoải mái. Với cách chơi đơn giản và thú vị, những trò chơi này là lựa chọn phổ biến cho mọi đối tượng người chơi, từ trẻ em đến người cao tuổi.

Tham gia cược thể thao tại 6686vn vip nhận ngay 100k miễn phí.
Tại nhà cái 6686vn vip sẽ có đầy đủ những dạng thể thao phổ biến như Bóng Đá, Bóng Chuyền, Quần Vợt, Cầu Lông, Bơi Lội, Bóng Chày, Bóng Rổ, Thể Thao ảo và Thể Thao điện tử.
Trong những thể loại ở trên thì bóng đá được xem là bộ môn thể thao vua và được bet thủ tham gia đông đảo nhất. Sẽ có đầy đủ các giải đấu hấp dẫn như Ngoại hạng Anh, Cúp C1, Cúp C2, La Liga, Bundesliga, Serie A, Ligue 1, Cúp FA, Cúp Nhà Vua Tây Ban Nha, Cúp Quốc Gia Đức, Euro, World Cup, Asian Cup,.. được nhà cái 6686 mở cược.
Tại đây bạn còn tận hưởng các trận đấu bóng đá hấp dẫn trên các kênh xoilac, một địa chỉ uy tín và tin cậy đã liên kết cùng nhà cái từ những năm đầu tiên ra đời, mang đến khán giả không gian hấp dẫn thú vị.
Với riêng bóng đá sẽ có đầy đủ các thể loại kèo cược hấp dẫn như Châu Á, kèo Châu Âu, kèo Tài Xỉu, kèo Xiên, kèo Góc, kèo tỉ số, kèo chẵn lẻ bàn thắng… để phục vụ người chơi.
Với những bộ môn thể thao khác cũng sẽ có hàng loạt trận đấu được mở cược. Đặc biệt trong đó phải kể đến thể thao ảo - nơi mà những trận bóng đá, bóng rổ, quần vợt sẽ được mô phỏng dưới dạng 3D. Vì là mô phỏng cho nên cá cược thể thao sẽ mở cược liên tục 24/7 và bạn có thể cá cược mọi lúc mọi nơi.
Bên cạnh đó, sảnh thể thao ảo cũng là nơi mà bạn nên trải nghiệm những bộ môn hấp dẫn như Liên minh Huyền Thoại, Dota 2, CS:2, CS:Go, Đế Chế, KOG,...
Điểm đáng chú ý khi tham gia cá cược trực tuyến trên các sự kiện đua ngựa và đua chó là việc có thể sử dụng nhiều loại cược khác nhau, từ các cược cơ bản như cược thắng, cược đều (place) đến các loại cược phức tạp hơn như cược chẵn lẻ, cược trùng hợp (exotic bets) như Exacta, Trifecta, Superfecta. Điều này tạo ra sự đa dạng và thú vị cho người chơi, cho phép họ thử nghiệm và phát triển chiến lược cá cược của riêng mình.
Đây là một sảnh cá cược mới lạ, độc đáo và thu hút được lượng lớn người tham gia trải nghiệm. Trang cá cược 6686 sẽ phát trực tuyến những màn đá gà cựa dao, đá gà cựa sắt, đá gà Thomo để mọi người được thưởng thức. Ngoài ra, bạn cũng có thể đặt cược vào những trận chọi gà đó để ăn thưởng.
Cách thực đặt cược đá gà đơn giản hơn so với cá cược thể thao. Trong mỗi trận đấu sẽ có 3 cửa, Wala là gà của người chơi, Meron là cửa của nhà cái và Draw là cửa hòa. Tùy vào tỷ lệ thắng thua của mỗi chú gà mà odds thưởng sẽ có sự khác biệt, muốn cược chú gà nào thắng thì bạn chỉ cần nhấn chọn vào cửa cược và điền số tiền cược. Kết thúc trận chọi gà, nếu chiến kê lựa chọn trước đó thắng thì người chơi cũng có tiền thưởng tương ứng.

Cách đăng ký đơn giản kể cả người mới
Để đăng ký tài khoản trên nhà cái 6686bet, người chơi chỉ cần thực hiện một số bước đơn giản sau đây:

Thực hiện một số bước đơn giản để vào trang chủ
Để đăng nhập vào nhà cái uy tín 6686 bet, người chơi chỉ cần thực hiện một số bước đơn giản sau đây:

Cần một thiết bị thông minh là có thể tải app
Để tải ứng dụng và tham gia vào việc chơi cá độ bóng đá trên điện thoại di động của bạn, bạn có thể làm theo các bước sau:

Đa dạng phương pháp nạp tiền vào tài khoản
Để nạp tiền vào tài khoản và bắt đầu tham gia vào các hoạt động cá độ, người chơi có thể tuân thủ các bước sau đây:

Rút tiền đơn giản không cầu kỳ tại nhà cái 6686bet.
Để rút tiền từ tài khoản 6686 bet, người chơi có thể tuân thủ các bước sau đây:

Title: R-ARCISS: A Peace that divides the signatories and non-signatories - Sudan Tribune
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
Sudan Tribune
Plural news and views on Sudan
By Tito Awen, Juba-South Sudan
I keep wondering if peace can divide or unite the partners. I am not so young nor unmindful not to have known what happened after signing of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) or not to have read other cases of peace in the World so as to draw a comparison to the recently signed peace agreement in South Sudan duped as R-ARCISS. After signing of the CPA, some of the Southern and Northern Parties joined Sudan People Liberation Movement (SPLM) as opposition coalition while some of the Northern and Southern Parties joined the National Congress Party (NCP) as ruling coalition. Hold on reader, just know that my writing is not so much of the opinion leathered and loathed with any form of negative interest but just drawing the observation for future correction and reference by the analysts and opinion leaders of my kind.
To begin with, the word revitalization means rejuvenation or resuscitation of the Agreement on the Resolutions of Conflict in South Sudan (R-ARCISS) which was at death bed then as a result of the J1’s ‘‘dogs fight’’ as popularly termed by most of the analysts and political commentators. That supposedly means that the agreement that was signed would have been the best agreement capable of addressing the root causes of post-independence issues and differences which possibly were the ones that led to 2013 and repeatedly led to 2016 aggressions and subsequently the present polarization & conflicts.
Papers were still not dry of the ink when the Revitalized-Agreement on the Resolution of Conflict in South Sudan (R-ARCIS) was signed on 12th September, 2018 when several breakaways emerged from different political parties that were parts and parcels or simply the signatories to the agreement (R-ARCISS). South Sudan Opposition Alliance (SSOA) which is the major opposition coalition was the first victim of split when most of its member parties defied & refused the call from the chairperson to sign the agreement though some were at a later date ‘intimidated’ to sign. They made their position real after the final signature by its leader-Mr.Changson Chang.
Gen.Thomas Cirilo’s National Salvation Alliance (NAS) was the second opposition organization to face the drama from within its ranks when some of NAS’s high ranking officials ‘dismissed’ him as their leader though it was contained at a later date. As if it was not enough, South Sudan Patriotic Movement (SSPM) of Eng.Garang Riiny was the third movement to face the test when Gen.Ayii Ayii Akol declared the dismissal of the Chairman and Commander-in-Chief (Eng.Garang Riiny) in ‘Support’ of peace signed though it was also sorted through intervention of Gen.Agany’s father-Gen.Ayii Akol. To follow suit, South Sudan Liberation Movement (SSLM) of Gen.Bapiny Monytuil went through the same crisis as well. SPLM-FDs’ (Former Detainees) and Dr.Lam Akol’s National Democratic Movement (NDM) are harbouring splits and also seem to be fighting the fire behind the dark corridors of their houses. To contain such discontentions, SPLM-FDs have used their recent October’s (Nairobi) meeting to put their house in order though the recent statement from their leader-Hon. Pagan Amum Okech is a proof that he was persuaded by his colleagues just to accept peace the way it is and not to his satisfaction. Furthermore, the recent resignation within the political files of National Democratic Movement (NDM) is another proof of the split on course.
For non-signatories, Gen.Malong Awan’s South Sudan United Front (SSUF) has also seen and heard two splits in the same period of peace though the impacts are minimised and considered to be of no major consent and impacts by its members.
I think the same split might be within the SPLM-IG and SPLM-IO (SPLM-In Government and SPLM-In Opposition) only that they feel being the major beneficiaries of the R-ARCISS and I believe the ceremony of the 31st October 2018 is litmus proof that the two went to bed better for this.
Digging deep into the splits: some parties split in support of peace per se while others do the same in opposition of the peace with a notion that it addresses nothing except the usual quest for power. This buys the questions: Are South Sudan and its political elites ready for peace or not? Or, does it means that the peace has not addresses the root causes of conflicts as said by some holdout parties? If so, are the parties to the agreement (SPLM-IG, SPLM-IO, SPLM-FDs and SSOA-IG) ready to bring to peace or to table the parties that are yet to support peace? If not so, are citizens ready for half meal only to see the politicians enjoying the resources the usual way while people are continuing to die?
The author is reachable through[email protected]
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Copyright @ 2024 | Sudan Tribune. All rights reserved.

Title: Soudan: le président remplace le chef du puissant service du renseignement - RTBF Actus

© SEYLLOU DIALLO - AFP
Le président soudanais Omar el-Béchir a désigné dimanche un nouveau chef pour le puissant service du renseignement, un organe impliqué dans la répression de récentes manifestations antigouvernementales, a rapporté dimanche l'agence de presse officielle Suna.
Par décret, Omar el-Béchir"a nommé"Salah Abdallah Mohamed Saleh à la tête du Service national du renseignement et de la sécurité (NISS), en remplacement de Mohammed Atta, a indiqué Suna, sans autres précisions.
Le nouveau patron du NISS qui a fait des études d'ingénierie connaît bien ce service pour lequel il a travaillé durant différentes périodes depuis le coup d'Etat de 1989 qui avait porté au pouvoir le président Béchir.
Il avait même dirigé le service de renseignement avant de tomber un temps en disgrâce et d'être remplacé en 2009 par Mohammed Atta. Emprisonné sous l'accusation d'avoir planifié de renverser le président soudanais, il avait finalement été gracié.
Selon des observateurs, Mohamed Saleh avait consolidé cet organe pour en faire un puissant outil au service du régime du président Béchir.
Son prédécesseur, Mohammed Atta venait de rentrer cette semaine du Caire où il avait participé au sein d'une délégation de son pays à des entretiens égypto-soudanais portant sur plusieurs domaines, dont la sécurité.
Son remplacement intervient alors que les agents du NISS et la police ont mené une répression envers de récentes manifestations, dans plusieurs villes, contre la hausse des prix, en particulier du pain.
Le récent doublement du prix de cette denrée de base, consécutif à la décision du gouvernement de confier les importations céréalières au secteur privé, a suscité un vif mécontentement dans la population.
Plusieurs dirigeants de l'opposition et militants des droits de l'Homme ont été arrêtés par le NISS. Des journalistes qui couvraient des manifestations ont également été arrêtés, mais la plupart d'entre eux ont depuis été relâchés.
Parallèlement, plusieurs journaux ayant critiqué la hausse des prix ont été confisqués par le NISS alors que Reporters sans frontières (RSF) dénonce censure, procès et lourdes peines contre les journalistes.
"Le NISS semble s'être lancé dans une véritable traque des journalistes",a écrit RSF cette semaine dans un communiqué. Selon l'ONG"la vague d'arrestation et de confiscations de journaux est sans précédent depuis le début de l'année"
Inscrivez-vous aux newsletters de la RTBF
Tous les sujets de l'article
Suivez-noussur les résaux sociaux
Copyright ©2024RTBF

Title: Reporters Without Borders Demand To Lift Charges Against Belsat Cameraman - Belarusian News - Charter'97
Using physical force against a journalist is a variant of censorship.
Human rights organization Reporters without Borders (RSF) condemns the cases of using physical violence against journalists and bloggers in Belarus, the organization's official website reports.
It is noted in the statement ofJohann Bihr, the head of RSF’s Eastern Europe and Central Asia desk, that Reporters Without Borders consider the cases of using physical force against journalists as deliberate censorship.
The organization separately mentioned the incident with cameraman for Belsat TVAndrei Kozel, who was forcibly detained after refusing to interrupt a live report for his Facebook page at voting station No. 27. He was charged with refusing to comply with police orders and spent the night in the center for isolation of law-breakers.
The day after the incident Kozel, who had a badly bruised forehead, said in the Central District Court of Minsk that the police beat him, banged his head against a glass door until the glass smashed, and then denied him medical attention while he was in their custody. The court told the police to re-examine the case.
“We call on the Belarusian authorities to immediately lift the charges against Andrei Kozel, and an impartial investigation must be carried out into the unacceptable violence to which he was subjected and into the other violations of the freedom to inform during the polling,” - said Johann Bihr.
Belarus is ranked 153rd out of 180 countries in RSF's 2017 World Press Freedom Index.
© 1998–2024Хартыя’97www.charter97.orgRemember, please, you are expected to refer to the Charter'97 Press Center when using the site materials.The publisher: Charter97.org in Warsaw:charter97@gmail.comISSN 2543-4969

Title: Darfur crimes: Three men killed, firewood collectors abducted - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Three people were killed in violent events in South Darfur’s El Malam on Wednesday. Armed men abducted four women and a man and reportedly raped several of them near Tabit in North Darfur.
Three people were killed in violent events in South Darfur’s El Malam on Wednesday. Armed men abducted four women and a man and reportedly raped several of them near Tabit in North Darfur.
Hasaballah El Nur, Nureldeim Yousif Fadul and one of the herders were killed at Keila area 12 kilometres west of El Malam in South Darfur.
Two herders attacked three women on their way to Keila, 12 kilometres west of El Malam, after collecting firewood. The women later reported that the assailants attempted to rape them, a sheikh in El Malam told Radio Dabanga.
The women resisted and one of the herders was hit with an ax in the head, leading to his immediate death. The other herder escaped. Afterwards the women handed themselves and the weapon of the dead over to the police in El Malam.
According to the sheikh, seven relatives of the killed herder went out the same evening to look for his body. “The relatives encountered a group of people returning to Keila after collecting firewood. They shot dead Hasaballah El Nur and Nureldeim Yousif Fadul on the spot.”
This incident has also been reported to the Keila police. “But the police has not gone out to track the culprit, as the corpse is still lying out in the open, they said,” according to the sheikh.
People abducted, raped
On Wednesday, four women and a man were abducted from Kondro area, 18 km west of Tabit, in North Darfur. Family members of the victims told Radio Dabanga that the abduction was carried out by seven armed men in military uniforms, driving a Land Cruiser.
The men intercepted a group of five women and three men who were returning after collecting firewood near Kondro. Two men and a woman managed to escape while Aisha Adam Abdallah (15), Khadija Ahmed Abdallah (25), Maryam Abakar Ibrahim (27), Fatima Ahmed Khatir (32), and Zein Adam Zein (35), were seized, put in the car and taken to an unknown place.
The family members explained that a force of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) moved out after they filed a report about the abduction, to hunt down the kidnappers.
They found Fatima Ahmed Khatir and Khadija Ahmad Abdallah out in the open, whom had lost consciousness and their bodies showed marks of rape. The women have been taken to Tawila’s health centre.
The fate of the three other abductees is unkown at this time of reporting.
Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: Lode777 Link Alternatif Login Baru Update 24 Jam
Hubungi Live Chat Center Kami. Cs Online 24/7. Update2024-08-29 14:56Lode777
Di era digital yang terus berkembang, permainan slot online menjadi primadona bagi para penggemar judi online, termasukENGINE LODE777yang menawarkan berbagai permainan menarik dengan peluang menang tinggi. Salah satu fitur yang menarik dari LODE777 adalah tersedianya link alternatif untuk mengakses situs. Ini sangat penting karena seringkali situs judi online diblokir oleh penyedia layanan internet. Dengan adanya link alternatif, pemain dapat terus mengakses permainan tanpa hambatan, memastikan pengalaman bermain yang lancar dan menyenangkan.
LODE777 tidak hanya menawarkan variasi permainan slot dari provider ternama, tapi juga promosi dan bonus yang menggiurkan, seperti bonus deposit, cashback, dan referral. Keamanan transaksi dan data pribadi pemain juga menjadi prioritas, ditambah dengan layanan pelanggan yang siap membantu kapan saja. Dengan semua keunggulan ini, tidak heran jika LODE777 menjadi pilihan favorit para penggemar judi slot online.
Akses sekarang juga melaluilink alternatif lode777yang tersedia dan nikmati berbagai permainan seru di LODE777!
Dapatkan Akses Sekarang:https://www.publicenemies.net

Title: 
	Tolerance.ca® - L'ONU réclame l'arrêt immédiat des bombardements sur une enclave rebelle en Syrie

Lire l'article complet