Title: The Bulletin | Empowering our community
Need help logging in?
Buckingham Elementary is a school in motion, with school supplies stacked up in the library, ready for teachers to collect. The hallways are freshly clean. Classrooms are in various stages of disarray as they are put back together for the approaching school year.
Select any of the free newsletter below, enter your email address and click 'Sign Up."
Success!An email has been sent towith a link to confirm list signup.
Error!There was an error processing your request.
When critical news happens, we bring it straight to you to keep you informed.
Find out what's happening with the latest events in our community.
Discover hidden treasures, unique finds, and unbeatable bargains with your weekly scoop on area garage sales.
Start every day with all the essential news in Central Oregon.
A weekly note from our editor about the inner workings of the newsroom.
Weekly hiking, biking and outdoor recreation suggestions to help you live your best active life.
Going out this weekend? Our entertainment reporters give you the scoop on the local scene.
Daily obituaries from Central Oregon
Get the best independent source of news and analysis of Oregon state government delivered to your inbox once a week.
Digital Delivery of The Bulletin eEdition
Your browser is out of date and potentially vulnerable to security risks.We recommend switching to one of the following browsers:
Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.

Title: Sudan Drawing Down Troops in Yemen in Recent Months
Print
Sudan has recently drawn down its forces taking part in a Saudi-led coalition at war with Iran-aligned rebels in Yemen, two senior Sudanese officials said Wednesday.
They declined to disclose how many troops have left Yemen, but say “several thousand troops,” mainly from the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces, have returned over the past two months.
The officials stressed that Sudan isn’t quitting the Saudi-led coalition. The coalition was formed in 2015 to stem the advance of the rebels known as Houthis after they took over Yemen’s capital and the northern provinces in 2014, pushing out the internationally recognized government.
The officials say Gen. Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo, head of the RSF, agreed with Saudi Arabia that he would not replace returned forces as fighting on the ground has dwindled in recent months. They said a “few thousand troops” remain for training Yemeni government forces.
In past years Dagalo, who is also member of Sudan’s joint military-civilian Sovereign Council that will govern Sudan for just over a three-year transition, mobilized thousands of RSF troops to fight in Yemen on behalf of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, the backbone of the coalition.
The RSF grew out of the notorious Janjaweed militias used by former autocratic President Omar al-Bashir in the Darfur conflict in the early 2000s.
The officials said the Sudanese troops reached over 40,000 at the peak of Yemen’s war in 2016-2017.
Yemeni military officials said Sudanese troops had centered mainly in Yemen’s border areas with Saudi Arabia to repel any attacks by Houthis on the Kingdom.
The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they weren’t authorized to brief the media.
A spokesman for the Saudi-led coalition did not answer calls seeking comment.
In July, the UAE said it pulled out several thousand troops in Yemen, describing the move as a “strategic redeployment.” Qatar and Morocco also pulled forces from Yemen in recent years amid a rift with Saudi Arabia.
The Saudi-led coalition has been at war in Yemen since 2015 to support the country’s internationally-backed government.
The war, sparked by the Houthis’ takeover of the capital in 2014, has claimed tens of thousands of lives, thrust millions to the brink of famine and spawned the world’s most devastating humanitarian crisis. Now it has ground into a long stalemate.


Title: Site is undergoing maintenance
Site will be available soon. Thank you for your patience!

Title: Sudanese Protester Wants to Revoke Legal Immunity for Military Leaders | Al Bawaba
The family of a Sudanese protester permanently disabled after being shot by authorities is filing a petition at the Constitutional Court on Monday, demanding the attorney general lift legal immunity for Chairman of the Transitional Military Council Abdel Fattah al-Burhan and the head of the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) militia Hemedti, along with two other military leaders.Protester Mohammed Mujtaba was shot twice on 3 June when paramilitary forces stormed a peaceful pro-democracy sit-in in Khartoum.
The bullet wounds have permanently handicapped Mujtaba and caused him to freeze his engineering degree at Rabat University, his father Ammar al-Sajad said.
The petition calls for legal immunity to be stripped from Burhan and Hemedti, as well as Transitional Military Council member Lieutenant General Shams al-Din Kabbashi and Lieutenant General Yasser al-Atta.
The four leaders "must take criminal responsibility" for the massacre, al-Sajad told The New Arab’s Arabic-language service, pointing out that the forces which assaulted protesters were regular forces using military vehicles, "not faceless demons or ghosts".
At least 128 people were killed in the massacre, according to the pro-democracy Central Committee for Sudanese Doctors (CCSD).
{"preview_thumbnail":"https://cdn.flowplayer.com/6684a05f-6468-4ecd-87d5-a748773282a3/i/v-i-d…","video_id":"d261584e-e755-44f4-954b-20c2bd420608","player_id":"","provider":"flowplayer","video":"US Withdraws All Troops From Northern Syria"}
Dozens more remain missing after bodies were thrown in the Nile.
Protest leaders have asked the new transitional government to prosecute those for the killing of demonstrators since protests began in December last year.
A new, independent investigation into the 3 June massacre was launched in September, and is set to take six months.
Al-Sajad said his family had resorted petitioning the court as says the investigation is unlikely to lead to prosecutions.
It has been unclear how the new government will hold the RSF and its commander accountable if paramilitary forces are found responsible for the killings.
The RSF is an officialised offshoot of the Janjaweed militias, widely accused of war crimes and genocide in the Darfur conflict.
The paramilitary forces, led by sovereign council member Dagalo, are also accused of rights violations against civilians in Sudan's Blue Nile and South Kordofan conflict zones.
This article has been adapted from its original source.
ViaSyndiGate.info
Copyright @ 2022 The New Arab.
Subscribe to our newsletter for exclusive updates and enhanced content
Subscribe


Title: Sudan names commission to investigate killings at Khartoum sit-in | Middle East Eye
Sudan's prime minister named a commission on Sunday to investigate a raid on a sit-in in June, in which security forces killed scores of people near the defence ministry in Khartoum. The move follows repeated calls for justice from protest and civilian groups.
The commission will have broad powers to summon witnesses, including officials, and will be given access to official documents, security reports and medical records, according to a report by state news agency SUNA.
The decision was issued late on Sunday, a day before a mass rally planned by the Sudanese Professionals Association (SPA), which spearheaded demonstrations that led to the overthrow of former president Omar al-Bashir in April and continues to call for justice for protesters who were killed or wounded.
The SPA welcomed the appointment of the commission, calling it "the first brick in the structure of a fair investigation and the revelation of the perpetrators of the crime".
The commission will be headed by human rights lawyer Nabil Adib and will include senior security officers as well as other lawyers, the Reuters news agency reported.
The sit-in was the culmination of 16 weeks of protests that led to army officers turning against Bashir and replacing him with a military council.
Protesters stayed in the streets calling for civilian rule, until security forces moved to clear the sit-in early on 3 June.
Witnesses said at the time that the security forces were led by the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
Led byMohamed Hamdan Dagolo, also known as Hemeti, the RSF was formed from the former Janjaweed militias accused of war crimes and genocide in Sudan's Darfur region.
In August, opposition groups and the military signed a three-year power-sharing deal leading to the formation of an 11-member sovereign council and the appointment of a technocratic, transitional government under Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok.
The commission will be charged with identifying those responsible for breaking up the sit-in, establishing the number of dead, wounded and missing, and the financial losses incurred by those affected, SUNA reported.
The number of victims has been disputed. Doctors linked to the opposition said nearly 130 people were killed in the raid and ensuing violence. Officials have acknowledged 87 deaths.
The commission is supposed to finish its work in three months, and can be granted one-month extensions provided it submits progress reports.
It can also request technical assistance from the African Union, which has played a prominent role in Sudan's transition.
Copyright © 2014 - 2023.Middle East Eye. All rights reserved.Only England and Wales jurisdiction apply in all legal matters.
Middle East Eye          ISSN 2634-2456

Title: Media banned from Sudan Courts Martial - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
A military court in Khartoum has ruled to ban media coverage of the trials of defendants accused of involvement in the foiled coup attempt in July, as well as the Court Martial of former Janjaweed leader Musa Hilal. The court said the ruling was in “order not to harm justice”.
A military court in Khartoum has ruled to ban media coverage of the trials of defendants accused of involvement in thefoiled coup attempt in July, as well as the Court Martial of former Janjaweed leaderMusa Hilal. The court said the ruling was in “order not to harm justice”.
Sudan Armed Forces (SAF) spokesman Brig Gen Amer El Hasan said “Musa Hilal belongs to the army and is therefore subject to the Sudan Armed Forces Act.”
Gen El Hasan explained that in the case of military trials by the military judiciary under the Act, the SAF has the right to assess the trials and keep them confidential. He asserted that “the elements of a fair trial are fully available and “the trial takes place, with the full powers of the General Courts for the sake of justice”.
In astatement last month, the Darfur Bar Association described the trial by Court Martial of Hilal and his affiliates as “invalid and has no legal ground because the alleged crimes relate to the resisting and opposing the former regime, which are legitimate activities that cannot constitute crimes”.
Militia officer, soldier jailed, dishonourably discharged for burglary
The Grand Field Court that has the legal competency over the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) government militia, convicted RSF Lt Abdelaziz Saeed to eight years and Pte Osman Adam to five years imprisonment, for raiding and burgling a house in the Wad Nubawi neighbourhood in old Omdurman using a Land Cruiser and another car.
RSF Spokesman Brig Gen Jamal Juma said that after investigation, the intelligence department was able to arrest the perpetrators, who were tried in the presence of their victims.
The Court further ruled that Lt Saeed and Pte Adam be dishonourably discharged from the service and stripped of any financial or after-service benefits.
Radio Dabanga’s editorial independence means that we can continue to provide factual updates about political developments to Sudanese and international actors, educate people about how to avoid outbreaks of infectious diseases, and provide a window to the world for those in all corners of Sudan.Support Radio Dabanga for as little as €2.50, the equivalent of a cup of coffee.


Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: Sudan family petition to revoke feared military leaders' immunity

Protester Mohammed Mujtaba was shot twice on 3 June when paramilitary forces stormed a peaceful pro-democracy sit-in in Khartoum.
The bullet wounds have permanently handicapped Mujtaba and caused him to freeze his engineering degree at Rabat University, his father Ammar al-Sajad said.Read more: The dictator PR gloss: Canada lobbyists paid $6m to promote Sudan's ruling military
The petition calls for legal immunity to be stripped from Burhan and Hemedti, as well as Transitional Military Council member Lieutenant General Shams al-Din Kabbashi and Lieutenant General Yasser al-Atta.
The four leaders "must take criminal responsibility" for the massacre, al-Sajad toldThe New Arab’s Arabic-language service, pointing out that the forces which assaulted protesters were regular forces using military vehicles, "not faceless demons or ghosts".
At least 128 people were killed in the massacre, according to the pro-democracy Central Committee for Sudanese Doctors (CCSD).Dozens more remain missing after bodies were thrown in the Nile.
Protest leaders have asked the new transitional government to prosecute those for the killing of demonstrators since protests began in December last year.
A new,independent investigationinto the 3 June massacre was launched in September, and is set to take six months.Al-Sajad said his family had resorted petitioning the court as says the investigation is unlikely to lead to prosecutions.It has been unclear how the new government will hold the RSF and its commander accountable if paramilitary forces are found responsible for the killings.The RSF is an officialised offshoot of theJanjaweed militias, widely accused of war crimes and genocide in theDarfur conflict.The paramilitary forces, led by sovereign council member Dagalo, are also accused of rights violations against civilians in Sudan's Blue Nile and South Kordofan conflict zones.

Title: Biggest Sudanese rebel group pulls out of peace talks | The National
Africa
October 17, 2019

Title: جهاز الامن السودانى يفرج عن 6 معتقلين - سودان تربيون
سودان تربيون
أخبار السودان وتقارير حصرية لحظة بلحظة
سودان تربيون
أخبار السودان وتقارير حصرية لحظة بلحظة
الخرطوم في 15 فبراير 2011 — اطلقت السلطات امس عددا من معتقلى التظاهرة الاخيرة للشباب عقب احتجازهم بعد فض احتجاجات نظموها فى الثلاثين من الشهر الماضى.
ونقلت القيادية بحزب الامة تيار لاصلاح نهى النقر ايفاء جهاز الامن والمخابرات بالتزامه  الذى قطعه رئيس الجهاز الفريق محمد عطا باطلاق سراح محتجزى التظاهرة عقب لقائه امهات المعتقلين  يوم الاحد.
وأكدت الافراج عن نجل  القيادى بالامة مبارك الفاضل المهدى “صلاح ” برفقة احمد محمود ومحمد بانقا وثلاثة اخرين واكدت تمتع المفرج عنهم الذين التقت بعضهم بصحة جيدة نافيه ظهور اى علامات تعذيب على اجسادهم.
ونوهت النقر الى تلقيهم وعود من السلطات باطلاق سراح النجل الثانى لمبارك ” يوسف” وبقية المعتقلين اليوم  .
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

جميع الحقوق محفوظة @ 2024  | سودان تريبيون

Title: UN Rights Council Should Ramp Up Engagement on Sudan | Human Rights Watch
Human Rights Watch Oral Intervention under Item 10: Interactive Dialogue with the Independent Expert on Sudan
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
Thank you.
Sudan has seen dramatic changes since protests that started mid-December led to the ouster of Sudan’s president for 30 years,Omar al-Bashir, in April. A transitional government took over in August. Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok and his cabinet have only had a few weeks to become operational.
Now, with new leaders in place, we see an important opportunity for change, in line with the agreement signed by Sudan’s military and civilian leaders on August 17, to put human rights, rule of law, and accountability up front after decades of rule by violent repression, impunity, and corruption.
As Human Rights Watch has documented, since December, government security forces used live ammunition against unarmed protesters, detained activists and political opponents, censored the media and blocked the internet. The forces also targeted medical personnel and facilities, detaining doctors and shooting into hospitals.
After al-Bashir’s ouster, the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) – the paramilitary force known for attacks on civilians in Darfur since 2013 – carried out these crackdowns as protests continued. The bloodiest was theirattack on the sit-inin Khartoum on June 3, in which RSF shot at unarmed protesters, killing scores, rounded up hundreds and subjected them to beatings, sexual violence and other abuse.
We urge the new government to ensure the investigation committee, announced on September 21, is effective. It should investigate attacks on protesters since December 2018, with clear powers of investigation and preservation of evidence and serve as a step toward accountability for those responsible. We urge the government to seek expertise to support the investigation committee’s work from regional and international bodies, including from the Council.
We urge the government to move forward to establish a fully mandated OHCHR office with a wide geographic scope, and the Council should ensure the High Commissioner’s office is able to monitor and report to the Council on its work and the human rights situation in the country.  In addition, the mandate of the Independent Expert should not end when the OHCHR office is established, but be extended to provide ongoing technical assistance, monitoring, and public reporting.
Victims of repression during the al-Bashir era still await justice. Al-Bashir and his associates wanted by the International Criminal Court have yet to be transferred to The Hague for prosecution.
With all the challenges that lie ahead, we hope Sudan’s new leadership will make justice a priority, and the Council, rather than abandoning the country, should ramp up its engagement and ensure that clear benchmarks for progress are identified.
Insecurity and Human Rights in Southern Sudan
Indicators for Evaluating Progress in the HRC Group of Experts Process
Share this via FacebookShare this via XShare this via WhatsAppShare this via EmailOther ways to shareShare this via LinkedInShare this via RedditShare this via TelegramShare this via Printer
Human Rights Watch defends the rights of people in close to 100 countries worldwide, spotlighting abuses and bringing perpetrators to justice
Get updates on human rights issues from around the globe. Join our movement today.
Every weekday, get the world’s top human rights news, explored and explained by Andrew Stroehlein.
Human Rights Watchis a 501(C)(3) nonprofit registered in the US under EIN: 13-2875808

Title: Sudanese professionals condemn ministers for endorsing militia health campaign - Dabanga Radio TV Online
Dabanga Radio TV Online
Independent news from the heart of Sudan
Dabanga Radio TV Online
The Sudanese Professionals Association (SPA) has condemned the participation of members of the Sovereign Council in the launch of a campaign against cholera, dengue, and chikungunya in some parts of Sudan organised by the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) militia.
The Sudanese Professionals Association (SPA) has condemned the participation of members of the Sovereign Council in the launch of a campaign against cholera, dengue, and chikungunya in some parts of Sudan organised by the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) militia.
The SPA, which has been a force majeure in the Sudanese revolution, describes the participation of the ministers as a setback.
In a statement on Friday, the SPA asserted that such health issues fall under the responsibility of the federal Ministry of Health and the state ministries concerned. All initiatives under the umbrella of the ministries of health concerned should be supervised and coordinated by these ministries. No party, whether internal or external should interfere in any form without putting its resources under the service and guidance of the ministries in question.
The launch of the militia campaign appeared to be the scene of direct involvement of the RSF in the health situation in these states.
The SPA demanded that members of the Sovereign Council appreciate the importance of the principle of separation of powers to enhance and effectuate this principle.
The RSF militia, in cooperation with the fSudanese Ministry of Health, dispatched four convoys to combat cholera in Sennar and Blue ,and dengue and chikungunya in Kassala and  Red Sea states.
Rift Valley fever spreading in River Nile state
With the death of a woman at Atbara Hospital on Thursday, deaths from Rift Valley fever in the River Nile state have risen to 11.
On Friday, a health source told Radio Dabanga that Atbara locality, the northern part of Berber locality, and the area of Sidon are considered the most affected areas. A number of cases have been transferred from the villages of Fatwar and Sulaymaniya to hospitals in El Bauga and Atbara, along with the transfer of a number of cases to Khartoum hospitals; most of the patients were suffering from kidney and blindness problems.
The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) in Sudan reported in itsSudan Situation Reporton Thursday that 535 dengue fever cases, including two deaths, were recorded in eastern Sudan and Darfur between 8 August and 22 October. 499 of the cases were recorded in Kassala.
The spread of chikungunya seems to be much less. 31 cases have been reported, all in Darfur.
Dengue is a mosquito-borne disease and stagnant waters are a breeding grounds for mosquitoes. The rise in dengue fever in Sudan coincides with the recent rains and floods, and consequent large areas of stagnant waters. Chikungunya virus is spread by mosquitoes as well.
Radio Dabanga’s editorial independence means that we can continue to provide factual updates about political developments to Sudanese and international actors, educate people about how to avoid outbreaks of infectious diseases, and provide a window to the world for those in all corners of Sudan.Support Radio Dabanga for as little as €2.50, the equivalent of a cup of coffee.


Share
Our editorial independence means that we can continue to provide fact-checked, reliable updates to Sudanese people and international stakeholders.

Email address

Install this Radio Dabanga on your iPhoneand thenAdd to Home Screen
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
WhatsApp

Title: الشمال مستمر فى التعامل بالجنيه بعد الانفصال - سودان تربيون
سودان تربيون
أخبار السودان وتقارير حصرية لحظة بلحظة
سودان تربيون
أخبار السودان وتقارير حصرية لحظة بلحظة
الخرطوم 4 فبراير 2011 — قال مسؤول بالبنك المركزي ان شمال السودان سيواصل استخدام الجنيه  بعد انفصال الجنوب في التاسع من يوليو خلافا  لتقارير نشرت امس  عن احتمال رجوع الخرطوم للتداول بالدينار
وقال مسؤولون جنوبيون انهم يزمعون اصدار عملة جديدة بعد أشهر من الانفصال لكن المحادثات بشأن كيفية ترتيب ذلك مازالت مستمرة.
ويوم الثلاثاء قال رئيس ما سيصبح البنك المركزي للجنوب بعد الانفصال ان الشمال يخطط لاجهاض هذا الاجراء من خلال التخلي عن الجنيه في التاسع من يوليو الذي قال محللون انه يمثل تهديدا لاكتساب ورقة ضغط أثناء المحادثات.وقال مسؤول بالبنك المركزي طلب عدم ذكر اسمه لرويترز يوم الخميس ان “الجنيه السوداني سيستمر في الشمال.
” وأضاف المسؤول “مسألة العملة لم تسوى حتى الان لكن من المرجح ان يصدر الجنوب عملته الخاصة به. لكن حتى يفعلوا ذلك سيواصلون استخدام الجنيه الى ان يطبعوا عملتهم الجديدة للتخلص من الجنيه بطريقة منظمة لا تضر بالجانب الاخر.”واذا تخلى أي من الجانبين عن الجنيه دون تنسيق وثيق فان ذلك سيجعل ملايين الجنيهات المتداولة عملة ليس لها قيمة بين عشية وضحاها.
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

جميع الحقوق محفوظة @ 2024  | سودان تريبيون

Title: الشمال مستمر فى التعامل بالجنيه بعد الانفصال - سودان تربيون
سودان تربيون
أخبار السودان وتقارير حصرية لحظة بلحظة
سودان تربيون
أخبار السودان وتقارير حصرية لحظة بلحظة
الخرطوم 4 فبراير 2011 — قال مسؤول بالبنك المركزي ان شمال السودان سيواصل استخدام الجنيه  بعد انفصال الجنوب في التاسع من يوليو خلافا  لتقارير نشرت امس  عن احتمال رجوع الخرطوم للتداول بالدينار
وقال مسؤولون جنوبيون انهم يزمعون اصدار عملة جديدة بعد أشهر من الانفصال لكن المحادثات بشأن كيفية ترتيب ذلك مازالت مستمرة.
ويوم الثلاثاء قال رئيس ما سيصبح البنك المركزي للجنوب بعد الانفصال ان الشمال يخطط لاجهاض هذا الاجراء من خلال التخلي عن الجنيه في التاسع من يوليو الذي قال محللون انه يمثل تهديدا لاكتساب ورقة ضغط أثناء المحادثات.وقال مسؤول بالبنك المركزي طلب عدم ذكر اسمه لرويترز يوم الخميس ان “الجنيه السوداني سيستمر في الشمال.
” وأضاف المسؤول “مسألة العملة لم تسوى حتى الان لكن من المرجح ان يصدر الجنوب عملته الخاصة به. لكن حتى يفعلوا ذلك سيواصلون استخدام الجنيه الى ان يطبعوا عملتهم الجديدة للتخلص من الجنيه بطريقة منظمة لا تضر بالجانب الاخر.”واذا تخلى أي من الجانبين عن الجنيه دون تنسيق وثيق فان ذلك سيجعل ملايين الجنيهات المتداولة عملة ليس لها قيمة بين عشية وضحاها.
Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked*
Comment*
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

جميع الحقوق محفوظة @ 2024  | سودان تريبيون

Title: The U.S. Must Help to Consolidate Civilian Government in Sudan Against Entrenched Security Hardliners | The Heritage Foundation
Frequently Searched
Top Issues
Political Thought
Domestic Policy
National Security
Government Spending
International
Energy & Environment
Legal and Judicial
Culture
Economy
Summary
The formation of an at least nominally civilian transitional government in Sudan is an opportunity for it to escape Islamist autocracy.
The unfolding transition requires thoughtful, committed American engagement for the foreseeable future, given entrenched security elites’ effort to maintain power.
The U.S. and its partners must support unity within the Sudanese civilian movement, and hold it accountable for delivering responsible and effective government.
Select a Section1/0
The East African country of Sudan has been a problem for the U.S. for decades. Its dictator Omar al-Bashir cooperated with American enemies, such as Iran and al-Qaeda. He embedded Islamism within the government and security institutions, and his scorched-earth wars against his own people created hundreds of thousands of Sudanese refugees. His regime allowed, or was unable to stop, the movement of terrorists and illegal migrants through his country, and he embroiled Sudan in border conflicts and proxy wars with neighboring states.
Its strategic importance made the Sudan problem all the more pressing. Sudan has 530 miles of coastline on one of the world’s most important shipping routes, the Red Sea. Its nearest point sits about 120 miles from the western shores of Saudi Arabia.REFIt is Africa’s 10th-most populous country, with 40 million people; and its approximately 200 million acres of arable land—coupled with about a quarter share of Nile River waterREF—makes it a potential agricultural hub for a region struggling to produce enough food for its people. Bashir’s mercenary approach to foreign policy has also made Sudan fiercely contested ground in the rivalry among Middle Eastern states.
While Bashir’s regime tried to mend fences with the U.S. in the past several years, his ouster through a military coup on April 11, 2019, and the subsequent formation of a transitional government with significant civilian involvement opened a window of opportunity. Yet there are powerful forces opposed to what would be the best outcome for Washington: the establishment of a friendly, civilian, non-Islamist government powerful enough to stabilize the country. Sudan’s unfolding transition is potentially positive as well as dangerous for U.S. interests, and requires wise and committed American engagement for the foreseeable future.
On August 21, Sudan’s chief justice swore in a new prime minister and a Sovereignty Council charged with shepherding the country through an approximately three-year transitional period. The ceremony followed a series of agreements between a coalition of Sudanese civilian groups known as the Forces of Freedom and Change (FFC) and the Transitional Military Council (TMC) that had ruled the country since ousting Bashir in the April 11 coup.
The putsch followed months of large-scale street protests in cities across Sudan, featuring Sudanese from all walks of life. Sparked by discontent over the mounting cost of basic necessities, the uprising evolved into a movement to unseat the brutal and corrupt Sudanese government. Hardliners from the security services, fearing that Bashir was no longer able to keep the government together, removed him and established the TMC.REFAfter some initial shuffling of the leadership, a Lieutenant General in the Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF), Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, settled in atop the TMC. Lieutenant General Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo (better known as “Hemeti”), leader of the powerful paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF), became the TMC’s deputy head.



The TMC claimed it would lead the country to elections, but the protesters demanded a civilian-led transition. Amid stalled negotiations, factions of the security services attacked the main protest camp in Khartoum on June 3, likely killing well over a hundred protesters and injuring, detaining, and raping scores more.REF
The brutal crackdown did not end the protests, and the subsequent international outcry raised the pressure on the TMC. Its primary international supporters—Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), and Egypt—apparently believing the generals had overstepped and likely fearing the reputational damage they could suffer by association, joined the pressure.
On July 17, the TMC and the FFC signed a power-sharing agreement that laid out the structure of the transitional government. The two sides initialed a subsequent August 4 agreement, known as the “constitutional declaration,” that resolved a number of outstanding issues, and officially signed the document on August 21.
The agreements established the Sovereignty Council that consists of five military officers and six civilians.REFLieutenant General Burhan will head the council for the first 21 months (Hemeti is also on the council), and a civilian will lead for the final 18. The Sovereignty Council established a Council of Ministers headed by newly sworn-in Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok, and will establish a Legislative Council, 67 percent of whose members the FFC will choose. Other civilian groups that participated in the protests and that are not associated with Bashir will choose the remaining legislators. Hamdok has selected most of the 18 ministers he can appoint, and the TMC, per the agreements, appointed the Interior and Defense Ministers.REF
Despite the understandable euphoria surrounding the signing of the constitutional declaration, powerful hardliners within the security services will almost certainly do everything they can to prevent true civilian rule of Sudan. A civilian government would endanger the hardliners’ two core interests—their economic privileges and their immunity from prosecution. They will not abide by any arrangement that strips them of sufficient power to protect those interests.
The range of economic benefits that the security services enjoy due to their privileged position is extensive. The RSF controls a business fiefdom centered in Darfur, and Hemeti has economic interests stretching from iron and steel to a limousine-for-hire company.REFIn 2017, he seized the Jebel Amir complex of gold mines in North Darfur. While it is unclear how much he makes from the mines, they netted the former owner an estimated $54 million every year.REF
The RSF’s control of stretches of Sudan’s border brings more money, as it reportedly profits from the human smuggling common in the region.REFIt also reportedly collects taxes and customs fees in the regions in which it is active.REF
Hemeti further profits by renting RSF fighters out to the Emirati and Saudi coalition fighting in Yemen, providing most of the as many as 14,000 Sudanese serving there at any one time.REFHemeti also sent a brigade of RSF fighters to serve with Khalifa Haftar, leader of the Libyan National Army, in exchange for financial support.REFThe Saudi-led coalition of Arab states may also directly support Hemeti.REF
Other elements of the security services benefit from their privileged position in Sudan. Khartoum’s 2017 budget allocated as much as 75 percent of the country’s expenditures to the defense and security sectors.REFSudanese elites, including from NISS, SAF, and the police, own or control at least 164 companies with interests in a broad range of industries.REFThe SAF also has troops in Yemen for which it is paid, and even low-level members of the security services benefit from the widespread practice of demanding bribes.REF
Perhaps the most pressing concern for the security hardliners is avoiding prosecution for their many crimes.REFAll elements of the Sudanese security services have committed atrocities, including Sudan’s most powerful generals, Hemeti and Burhan. Hemeti was a Janjaweed (a militia) warlord before it became the RSF—during his tenure the militia committed such brutal crimes in Darfur that the International Criminal Court indicted Omar al-Bashir for genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes. Burhan was a colonel in military intelligence during the Darfur atrocities, and helped direct attacks against civilians.REFThe NISS’s history of committing extreme human rights abuses, such as torture and murder, is also well documented.REFMost recently, the RSF, police, and NISS all committed serious abuses during the popular uprising.REF
Under Bashir, the security services were protected from prosecution for their misconduct. The 2010 National Security Act gave NISS officials immunity for acts committed as part of their official duties.REFWhen the Sudanese government formalized the RSF in 2013, it extended the Security Act’s immunities to the RSF.REF
The security hardliners have good reason to fear prosecution if civilians take undisputed control of the government. Many civilians throughout the protests have demanded justice for abuses the security services meted out.REFThe constitutional declaration calls for accountability for the previous regime’s crimes, for an investigation into the June 3 massacre, and stipulates that the civilian-appointed Legislative Council can strip members of the security services of their immunity in the case of severe crimes.REFJust a few days after his swearing-in, Prime Minister Hamdok reiterated the need for justice for those responsible for violence during the protests.REF
It is implausible in the extreme that the security hardliners will abide by an agreement that imperils their economic privileges and triggers an investigation that could put them in prison. The hardliners’ willingness to agree to the declaration—and make public avowals to seek justice for the perpetrators of the violenceREF—suggests that they either do not intend to fully honor their commitments, or that they believe they can adequately protect themselves in the new political dispensation.REF



There is some opening within the agreements for the security hardliners to shield their privileges. The security services retain control of two important portfolios, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defense. The constitutional declaration also stipulates that Sovereignty Council decisions require either consensus or a two-thirds majority to be implemented, so that at least one military officer will have to agree with the civilians to reach the necessary threshold.REFThat gives the security hardliners an opportunity to block legislation, though the constitutional declaration does provide a way for civilians to overcome such an obstacle.REF
Furthermore, it is unclear when the Legislative Council—the body that can vote to strip immunity—will be formed, and how effective it will be. The FFC, which will select most of the members of the Legislative Council, is diverse and fractious, and agreeing on 200 legislators will be difficult. Civilian groups outside the FFC also have to choose 100 legislators, further increasing the potential for a slow and haphazard process that may result in an unwieldy and divided legislative body.
Yet navigating the ruthless netherworld of Sudanese politics has probably trained the hardliners to mistrust everyone. They likely wish to control their own fate by remaining in power, and signed the declaration merely to relieve the pressure they were under from the popular uprising and the international community. They may also understand that rescuing Sudan’s spiraling economy—which provoked the protests in the first place—will require foreign investment and help from international financial institutions.REFUntil Sudan escapes the State Department’s official list of state sponsors of terrorism—and the U.S. has signaled that a civilian-led government will be a prerequisite for removalREF—it cannot access any such assistance, and foreign investors will probably remain wary.
Given these realities, the security hardliners are likely to attempt the delicate task of appearing to abide by the agreements while ensuring that an independent civilian government does not form. A civilian veneer to their continued dominance would avoid provoking the street, give their allies cover to further support them, and potentially help them move from the U.S.’s terrorism list.
Part of the strategy is almost sure to be an attempt to fracture the civilian movement. The protesters achieved a remarkable feat, but the alliance is strained. The Sudanese Communist Party, an important part of the FFC, rejected the July 17 power-sharing agreement and the initialing of the constitutional declaration,REFas did the Sudan Revolutionary Front (SRF), a coalition of major Sudanese armed groups.REF
The elections ending the transitional period are supposed to consolidate civilian control of the government, but the security hardliners may view these elections as an opportunity to achieve the patina of legitimacy they need. If the generals believe they have hamstrung the popular movement, or that it has neutered itself with internal bickering, they would likely support elections, hoping to either win outright or to manipulate them sufficiently to get a military man or a figurehead civilian elected. They may even rush the country to elections if it is favorable to them.
The security services have their own internal divisions that threaten the unity needed to outmaneuver the civilians. There are particular tensions among the SAF, RSF, and NISS. SAF and RSF units may have fought one another in 2016 in Darfur due to tensions around the RSF’s brutal treatment of civilians.REFDuring the recent protests, some younger SAF officers and soldiers in Khartoum were reportedly confined to their barracks without weapons as the RSF and NISS prepared to raid a protester camp.REFSAF soldiers even exchanged gunfire with NISS in an attempt to protect protesters from a NISS raid.REFThe prospect of the security services melting down into a civil war so rattled the generals that it probably contributed to their decision to remove Bashir.REF
Many within the SAF also reportedly resent Hemeti and the RSF’s meteoric rise to prominence, in part because Hemeti is illiterate and has no formal military education or service.REFHe also hails from the periphery—as the marginalized regions of Sudan are known—while officers from tribes in the country’s center dominate the SAF and NISS.REFFinally, Hemeti’s duplicity earned him powerful enemies. He joined with the then-head of NISS, Salah Gosh, to unseat Bashir, and then turned on Gosh, forcing him to flee Sudan. Such incidents have likely deepened distrust and bitterness within the security services.REF
Yet there is no guarantee that these tensions will outweigh the security services’ interests in protecting their economic prerogatives, and they all would suffer under a civilian-led government determined to see justice served. Their shared history of brutality binds them together. Furthermore, Burhan and Hemeti reportedly have a strong relationship derived from their time commanding Sudanese forces in Yemen.REF
Since the coup, Hemeti has also consolidated power by arresting and removing senior leaders of rival elements in the government and security services.REFThe SAF is larger than the RSF, but RSF fighters are well-equipped, seasoned, and much better paid,REFand so perhaps more loyal. Hemeti has an independent and diversified funding stream that has made him wealthy.REFHe is also backed by powerful friends, such as the UAE and Saudi Arabia.



There are a number of foreign powers whose influence in Sudan will significantly shape the outcome of the transition. Three of the most relevant are Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and the UAE. The trio have strong relationships and interests in Sudan that significantly overlap and prompted their support of the TMC. Soon after the generals deposed Bashir, the Saudis and Emiratis promised $3 billion in aid, and reportedly sent plane loads of military equipment to Khartoum.REFEgypt gave strong diplomatic support to Sudan at the African Union.
One of the trio’s primary concerns is ensuring that Sudan’s new government excludes Islamists. Egypt and the UAE in particular oppose political Islam, and the latter has made suppressing it one of its primary foreign policy goals. Saudi Arabia has a more complex relationship with Islamism. It currently opposes the Muslim Brotherhood as a threat to the monarchy, but has had an on-again, off-again relationship with the Brotherhood.REFSaudi Arabia has also supported the global proselytization of the radically Islamist Wahhabi practice of Islam for decades.
The FFC is avowedly secular, so much so that many Islamists were marginalized during the protests, and some formerly allied with Bashir began supporting the TMC.REFYet the trio appear convinced that their friends among the security hardliners are non-Islamist enough. Hemeti and Burhan reportedly pitched the idea that they will suppress political Islam and fend off states associated with Islamism, such as Qatar and Turkey.REFSince the coup, in fact, the RSF has arrested a number of leading Islamists, though it is unclear whether Hemeti is merely clearing out potential rivals.REFBurhan is reportedly one of the few non-Islamists in the senior ranks of the Sudanese security forces.REF
The trio also want to keep their geopolitical rivals at bay. Following his ascension in 1989, Bashir strengthened relations with Iran, which reciprocated with weapons, training, investments, and economic support. Tehran helped to operate an arms factory in Sudan, and reportedly smuggled weapons through Sudan to Hamas, Hezbollah, and the Houthi militias in Yemen.REFThe liaison ended in 2016 when Bashir, trying to curry favor with Arab countries, broke relations with Tehran.REF
Qatar, which angered the trio by, among other issues, supporting Muslim Brotherhood groups, including in Egypt, has large agricultural investments and philanthropic initiatives in Sudan.REFQatar also built significant goodwill in Sudan by mediating peace talks between Khartoum and Darfuri rebels that culminated in the signing of a 2011 agreement. In 2017, Doha announced a $4 billion renovation project of Sudan’s Suakin Island in the Red Sea.REF
Turkey, another rival to the trio and a Qatari ally, in 2017 announced its own investments in Suakin Island that included a military facility that would have given Turkey a strong position just across the Red Sea from Jeddah, and close to Egypt as well. The following year, Sudan and Turkey signed more agreements covering a range of sectors.REFThe trio badly want to frustrate their rivals’ activities in a country sitting on their doorstep.
As monarchies, the UAE and Saudi Arabia also dislike popular revolts demanding civilian rule. Egypt had a tumultuous Arab Spring uprising that briefly brought the Muslim Brotherhood to power before a coup ensconced a general, current president Abdel Fatah al-Sisi. Egypt is also suffering similar economic difficulties to those that sparked the Sudanese uprising, and wants to avoid any copycat protests.REF
The trio also seek to avoid upheaval in a country of 40 million people that perches so close to Egypt and Saudi Arabia. The bedlam of Libya and Syria has likely made the trio particularly wary. The UAE’s foreign minister, Anwar Gargash, referenced the need to avoid further “all-out chaos in the region” when announcing that Abu Dhabi supported “an orderly [and] stable transition [in Sudan]…that carefully calibrates popular aspirations with institutional stability.”REF
Stability would also protect the UAE’s and Saudi Arabia’s significant commercial links to Sudan. Riyadh is Sudan’s largest Arab investor with more than 590 projects in the country,REFand has periodically injected billions of dollars into Sudan’s central bank.REFSo, too, has the UAE, which has its own large investments in Sudan.REFEgypt has significant interests in Sudanese agriculture.REFGiven the trio’s support for the TMC, they must believe that stability in Sudan requires a role for the security services in the government.
Finally, Hemeti is providing thousands of RSF militiamen to fight, for a price, on the Saudi–Emirati side of various regional conflicts. Many of the Sudanese battling on behalf of the Saudi- and Emirati-led coalition in Yemen come from the RSF.REFOne thousand RSF militiamen, the first tranche of an eventual 4,000-man deployment, recently deployed to Libya to fight with the Saudi-, Egyptian-, and Emirati-backed Libyan National Army.REFHaving such a force of capable fighters at their disposal in a fractious region is undoubtedly useful to Saudi Arabia and the UAE.
There are disagreements within the trio, however. Egypt purportedly dislikes the RSF, viewing it as the sort of irregular force that destabilized neighboring Libya. Egypt prefers to work with established institutions like the SAF that also have long-standing, close ties to the Egyptian military.REFThe military in Egypt has been a bulwark against the domestic Muslim Brotherhood, and the Egyptians may hope that the SAF can play the same role, despite the fact that Bashir systematically Islamized Sudan’s military. With its long history in Sudan, Cairo also likely wants as much influence as possible—the better to resolve in its favor contentious issues, such as its border dispute with Sudan—something the assertive Saudi and Emirati engagement makes more difficult.
Finally, Cairo may diverge from its partners on the question of the massive dam that Ethiopia is building on the Nile River. Egypt fears the dam will restrict its amount of Nile water, a critical resource for the water-starved country.REFSaudi Arabia has supported Cairo in the dispute, even reportedly seeking a promise from Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed to protect Egypt’s supply of Nile water.REFYet the dam will moderate the Nile’s flow in Sudan, creating even more arable land from which the UAE and Saudi Arabia, with their food-security concerns, could benefit.
The U.S. desires a non-Islamist, stable civilian government in Sudan. Yet there is scarcely a chance that the security services will negotiate themselves out of power, and they have the means to play spoiler. The security forces’ rivalries can be a vulnerability if wisely exploited, but their powerful shared interests also bind them together. There is as well the risk of a civil war within the security services if their rivalries get out of hand.
Given these realities, the U.S. should proceed with the understanding that it is impossible to quickly marginalize the powerful and committed security hardliners. The U.S. should, in close coordination with allies—some of whom will likely have to be persuaded to support such a course—focus on facilitating the gradual removal of the hardliners from political life while helping the civilians consolidate their position.
This will require an approach tailored to account for the diversity of the security apparatus. Given all that they have to lose, hardliners like Hemeti will not be cajoled from power. The civilians will have to outmaneuver and, with international help, coerce them by chipping away at their sources of strength: their funding, fighters, and foreign backers. The process will have to be delicate and gradual enough to avoid provoking a bloody backlash.
Targeted sanctions of people and particular industries, ensuring that civilians gain full control of the budget, and economic reforms in exchange for international assistance can help disrupt some of the hardliners’ funding. Squeezing the hardliners would make it tougher for them to pay their fighters, presumably easing the civilian administration’s task of demobilizing or integrating those fighters into the legitimate armed forces. Some security personnel not violently opposed to civilian government might also be coaxed into a process of reform, and away from obedience to the hardliners. Such people are most likely to be found within the SAF and the younger generations of security personnel. Given their apparent loyalty to Hemeti, RSF fighters will likely be very difficult to cajole. NISS operatives may be as well, given the extent of the privileges they enjoy under the current system.
The U.S.’s ability to engage with the Sudanese security services is circumscribed by American law, but the U.S. should think creatively about what it can do to support the civilian government’s attempt to reform the security apparatus. The U.S. will have to work with trusted Sudanese civilians to make the necessary fine distinctions between the amenable and hardline elements of the security forces, as doing so requires a depth of knowledge that the U.S. likely lacks.
A campaign to strengthen the civilian parts of the Sudanese governments will have to accompany the gradual coercion of the security hardliners out of the political sphere and the inveigling of the amenable elements of the security forces into their legitimate roles. The international community should accord Prime Minister Hamdok alone the privileges of a head of state, and engage with the security service leadership only on matters within its legitimate portfolio. The U.S. should lead an international effort to ensure that the government receives any technical assistance it requests, and use its diplomatic might to attempt to rally the international community behind the civilian government.
The U.S. would be wise to assess in the critical months ahead whether the popular movement is translating into a responsible government. Washington cannot achieve its national interests in Sudan unless the civilians provide unified, responsible leadership of the country. The protest movement was exemplary, a hopeful sign for the civilian government’s prospects. Yet the popular uprising that toppled a previous government in 1985 failed to consolidate civilian government because of internal bickering, providing an opening for Bashir’s coup four years later.REFThe mass protests combined with international pressure alone forced the TMC into concessions. If the civilians fracture, a major piece of leverage over the security hardliners will evaporate.REF
The Egyptian, Emirati, and Saudi long-term vision for Sudan will also be crucial to the fate of a civilian government. The trio have deeper strategic interests in Sudan than perhaps any other countries, and are willing to devote significant time, money, and effort to achieving their objectives. The trio pressured the TMC to negotiate after the June 3 massacre, but the trio also backed the generals immediately following the coup. If the trio believe that including the generals is simply a necessary short-term measure, the U.S. should be able to work with the trio to consolidate civilian rule. If the trio envision a long-term military government,REFit will be virtually impossible for the U.S. to effectively help the civilians consolidate control of the government.
It is difficult to change a nation’s perceptions of its national interests, so the U.S. must focus on where its goals overlap with those of the trio. Khartoum must get off the State Sponsor of Terrorism list to unlock the international financial help it needs to revive the economy, otherwise the unrest the trio fear is likely to continue in Sudan. Lifting the designation will also lessen the odds that the UAE and Saudi Arabia need to expensively prop up the Sudanese government again. A civilian government will also probably have a better chance of bringing stability by making peace with the periphery, rather than a regime headed by the same rapacious forces that have persecuted the marginalized regions for decades.REFFinally, the civilians have a demonstrated commitment to keeping Islamists away from positions of power, whereas Islamists still populate the security services.
To gradually marginalize the security hardliners, induce the security elements amenable to civilian rule, and empower the civilians, the U.S. should:
Disengaging the security services from Sudan’s political life is impossible in the near term, and difficult over the long term. It will require the international community to muster a level of engagement, coordination, persistence, and strategic thinking rare in such complex situations. The U.S. is the only country with the diplomatic heft to corral the many actors with interests in Sudan into something resembling a united effort. It will also have to support the civilian government in chipping away at the security services’ power that gives them such influence in the political sphere, while simultaneously strengthening the civilians’ position. Part of the U.S. effort will have to include doing what it can to support unity within the civilian movement, and holding it accountable to deliver responsible and effective government.
As difficult as the task is, the U.S. should engage, as there is an opportunity to address a long-standing bugaboo in the region, and because the downside risks in Sudan are all disagreeable, and some disastrous. If the civilians do not win out, it is plausible that Sudan could face bloody suppression of more mass protests, continued violence from armed groups on the periphery, economic collapse, another Islamist party stepping into a vacuum left by exhausted antagonists, or a civil war sparked by security services’ divisions. Such outcomes would damage American interests in the region, and represent a squandered opportunity for Sudan to finally emerge from decades of ruinous Islamist rule propped up by a brutal security apparatus.
Joshua Meserveyis Senior Policy Analyst for Africa and the Middle East in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy, of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for National Security and Foreign Policy, at The Heritage Foundation.
Former Research Fellow, Africa
COMMENTARY4 min read
COMMENTARY6 min read
COMMENTARY6 min read
Subscribe to email updates
Follow us
© 2024, The Heritage Foundation

Title: 
	Sudan drawing down troops in Yemen in recent months | iNFOnews | Thompson-Okanagan's News Source

Would you like to subscribe to our newsletter?

CAIRO - Sudan has recently drawn down its forces taking part in a Saudi-led coalition at war with Iran-aligned rebels in Yemen, two senior Sudanese officials said Wednesday.
The UAE's military, meanwhile, said it pulled its troops from the southern port city of Aden and handed over the interim capital to Saudi and Yemeni forces.
The Sudanese officials declined to disclose how many troops have left Yemen, but said "several thousand troops," mainly from the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces, returned home over the past two months.
The officials said Sudan isn't quitting the Saudi-led coalition. The coalition was formed in 2015 to stem the advance of the rebels known as Houthis after they took over Yemen's capital and the northern provinces in 2014, pushing out the internationally recognized government.
The officials said Gen. Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo, head of the RSF, agreed with Saudi Arabia that he would not replace returned forces as fighting on the ground has dwindled in recent months. They said a "few thousand troops" remain for training Yemeni government forces.
In past years Dagalo, who is also member of Sudan's joint military-civilian Sovereign Council that will govern Sudan for just over a three-year transition period, mobilized thousands of RSF troops to fight in Yemen on behalf of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, the backbone of the coalition.
The RSF grew out of the notorious Janjaweed militias used by former autocratic President Omar al-Bashir in the Darfur conflict in the early 2000s.
The officials said the Sudanese troops reached over 40,000 at the peak of Yemen's war in 2016-2017.Yemeni military officials said Sudanese troops had centred mainly in Yemen's border areas with Saudi Arabia to repel any attacks by Houthis on the Kingdom.The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they weren't authorized to brief the media.A spokesman for the Saudi-led coalition did not answer calls seeking comment.The UAE's military said Wednesday it pulled its troops from the southern port city of Aden and handed over the interim capital to "Saudi and Yemeni forces."In a statement carried by state-run WAM news agency, the Emirati military said the forces had armed and trained Yemeni forces to a degree that they could function independently.The UAE dominates Yemen's south through the militias it arms and finances. But in July, the UAE said it pulled several thousand troops out of Yemen, describing the move as a "strategic redeployment." Qatar and Morocco also pulled forces from Yemen in recent years amid a rift with Saudi Arabia.In August, UAE-backed separatists known as the Southern Transitional Council overran Aden and other southern cities, driving out forces loyal to President Abed Rabbo Mansour Hadi in bloody fighting. That infighting has raised fears of a further weakening of the anti-Houthi bloc and undermining chances for finding a negotiated solution to the civil war.Last week, Yemeni officials said Hadi's government and the southern separatists reached an initial agreement to end the fighting and allow Hadi's return to Aden. Saudi Arabia also increased its military presence in southern Yemen, airlifting in additional troops, armoured vehicles, tanks and other military equipment.The Saudi-led coalition has been at war in Yemen since 2015 to support the country's internationally backed government.The war, sparked by the Houthis' takeover of the capital in 2014, has claimed tens of thousands of lives, thrust millions to the brink of famine and spawned the world's most devastating humanitarian crisis. Now it has ground into a long stalemate._________Associated Press writer Ahmed al-Haj contributed from Sanaa, Yemen.News from © The Associated Press, 2019

Yemeni military officials said Sudanese troops had centred mainly in Yemen's border areas with Saudi Arabia to repel any attacks by Houthis on the Kingdom.
The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they weren't authorized to brief the media.
A spokesman for the Saudi-led coalition did not answer calls seeking comment.
The UAE's military said Wednesday it pulled its troops from the southern port city of Aden and handed over the interim capital to "Saudi and Yemeni forces."
In a statement carried by state-run WAM news agency, the Emirati military said the forces had armed and trained Yemeni forces to a degree that they could function independently.
The UAE dominates Yemen's south through the militias it arms and finances. But in July, the UAE said it pulled several thousand troops out of Yemen, describing the move as a "strategic redeployment." Qatar and Morocco also pulled forces from Yemen in recent years amid a rift with Saudi Arabia.
In August, UAE-backed separatists known as the Southern Transitional Council overran Aden and other southern cities, driving out forces loyal to President Abed Rabbo Mansour Hadi in bloody fighting. That infighting has raised fears of a further weakening of the anti-Houthi bloc and undermining chances for finding a negotiated solution to the civil war.
Last week, Yemeni officials said Hadi's government and the southern separatists reached an initial agreement to end the fighting and allow Hadi's return to Aden. Saudi Arabia also increased its military presence in southern Yemen, airlifting in additional troops, armoured vehicles, tanks and other military equipment.
The Saudi-led coalition has been at war in Yemen since 2015 to support the country's internationally backed government.
The war, sparked by the Houthis' takeover of the capital in 2014, has claimed tens of thousands of lives, thrust millions to the brink of famine and spawned the world's most devastating humanitarian crisis. Now it has ground into a long stalemate.
_________
Associated Press writer Ahmed al-Haj contributed from Sanaa, Yemen.

Title: Sudan drawing down troops in Yemen in recent months | KSL.com
Estimated read time: Less than a minute
This archived news story is available
                                    only for your personal, non-commercial use. Information in the story may be outdated
                                    or superseded by additional information. Reading or replaying the story in its
                                    archived form does not constitute a republication of the story.
CAIRO (AP) — Sudanese officials say Sudan has drawn down its forces taking part in a Saudi-led coalition at war with Yemen's rebels.
They declined to disclose how many troops have left Yemen and how many remain, but say "several thousand troops," mainly from the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces have returned over the past two months.
The officials say Gen. Mohammed Hamdan Dagalo, head of the RSF, agreed with Saudi Arabia that he will not replace returned forces, as fighting on the ground has dwindled in recent months.
The officials spoke Wednesday on condition of anonymity because they weren't authorized to brief the media.
The Saudi-led coalition has been at war against the Houthis since 2015. The United Arab Emirates, a key member in the coalition, has recently pulled out thousands of troops.
Copyright © The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.

Title:  
We’re sorry. The page you were looking for couldn’t be found, or may have been moved.
© 2024 StarTribune.
All rights reserved.