Timeline: South Sudan's history at a glance1983-2005: The Second Sudanese Civil War

In 1983, Sudanese president Gaafar Nimeiry declared the country an Islamic state and revoked the autonomy of the majority-Christian SSAR. The Second Sudanese Civil War broke out in response to this, although the southern coalition was split into more factions this time, largely dividing along ethnic lines. More South Sudanese died due to local infighting than at the hands of northern forces, including the brutal Bor Massacre of 1991 and a resulting famine which, combined, claimed the lives of an estimated 27,000. At 22 years, it was the longest civil war in African history.

After more than two decades of conflict and casualties exceeding 2.5 million, a Comprehensive Peace Agreement was signed in Nairobi in 2005 between the Sudanese government and Southern Sudan. Southern Sudan was made a semi-autonomous region and guaranteed a referendum on independence within six years. After the death of Sudanese Vice President John Garang, South Sudanese politician Salva Kiir Mayardit was appointed both Vice President of Sudan and Vice President of Southern Sudan.

The displacement camp at Bentiu in South Sudan. Photo: Kieran McConville/Concern Worldwide

Robust emergency shelters at Bentiu Protection of Civilian (POC) site In South Sudan. Concern has facilitated the construction of more than 10,000 shelters on the site. Photo: Kieran McConville

2010-2011: Independence

In April of 2010, with 93% of the vote, Kiir was re-elected president of Southern Sudan.

The following year, Southern Sudanese people voted on secession from Sudan, with nationals casting votes from around the world. After nearly a month, and with an even more overwhelming majority of 98%, South Sudanese nationals voted to separate from Sudan. South Sudan was first recognized as an independent nation on July 9, 2011, making it the 54th country in Africa and the 193rd country to join the United Nations.

While largely seen as peaceful, South Sudan’s independence was not free of violence, and conflict was reported in nine of the country’s ten states in 2011.

A young girl hangs the South Sudan flag following the country’s independence referendum. (Photo: Timothy McKulka / USAID)

2013-2015: Outbreak of the South Sudanese Civil War

As tensions continued to simmer, civil war was officially declared in South Sudan two years after its statehood. Insecurity reached a breaking point in July of 2013, when President Kiir fired his entire cabinet, including Vice President Riek Machar, after accusations of a coup d’etat. After a few months of relative calm, violence erupted in December of 2013 and fighting broke out between government forces and soldiers loyal to Machar.

By March of 2014, 1 million South Sudanese had been forced to leave their homes due to violence, including 800,000 who were internally displaced within their own fragile country. That number more than doubled by May of 2015, when new UN estimates put the number of South Sudanese displaced by fighting at 2.2 million. This forced migration crisis also caused food shortages and increasing rates of disease, in keeping with the connection between conflict and hunger.

Amid threats of sanctions, President Kiir signed a new peace deal with Machar in August, 2015.

Mother of five Ayak at a food distribution being carried out by Concern Worldwide and World Food Program (WFP) in Northern Bahr el Ghazal, South Sudan. (Photo: Kieran McConville)

2016-2018: A fragile peace, renewed conflict, and a consequential famine

As part of a deal to end South Sudan’s civil war, President Kiir reinstated Riek Machar as Vice President. Machar was sworn in on April 26, 2016. Less than six weeks later, fighting broke out once again between government forces and soldiers loyal to Machar. Hundreds were left dead, and Machar fled the country. Kiir appointed Taban Deng Gai as his vice president.

By the end of 2016, the United Nations warned that the country was at risk of “outright ethnic war” and sought an arms embargo against South Sudan. The embargo was blocked, and fighting continued. The conflict also contributed to a famine declared in parts of the Unity State in June of 2017. Tenuous ceasefire leading to renewed instability and subsequent famine is not unique to South Sudan’s situation, but this famine serves as a clear example of the pattern that has repeated so often throughout history.

Concern South Sudan Nutrition Assistant Simon leads an educational session for mothers and caregivers. (Photo: Abbie Trayler-Smith / Concern Worldwide)

2018-2022: As violence continues despite peace, an uncertain future

In September, 2018, a second agreement was signed between the South Sudanese government and its main political opposition. The deal offered some hope for peace, but a hard road forward for making that hope a reality. In 2019, 7 million South Sudanese were left hungry in the wake of conflict-related food insecurity. The United Nations declared that “without scaled-up humanitarian assistance, more and more people are at risk.” Sexual violence against women and girls remained “endemic.”

Armed conflict continued through 2020 (a year that saw Machar re-sworn in as Vice President), and the United Nations secured an arms embargo while maintaining a peacekeeping mission in the country, largely seen through Protection of Civilian (PoC) sites that house the majority of the country’s 1.3 million internally-displaced people. In April of 2021, as South Sudan approached its 10th birthday, the UN warned that the delayed peace process and drafting of a national constitution could lead to a full-scale conflict.

A child flies a homemade kite in Juba’s Protection of Civilians site. (Photo: Steve De Neef / Concern Worldwide)

At the receiving end of this legacy — a legacy of the last decade, but also one of the last several centuries’ worth of marginalization, instability, and underdevelopment — are South Sudanese civilians. Many suffer the consequences of renewed conflict; others face challenges posed by climate disasters (such as recent flooding along the Nile and Lol rivers and Sudd marshlands).

More than 70% of the country’s population (8.4 million people) require humanitarian assistance, including 4.5 million children. Hunger levels are once again on the brink of famine, with over 7 million South Sudanese facing some form of food insecurity.

South Sudan: How you can help

The US is a leader in moving the humanitarian system to be more anticipatory, responding early before a crisis takes hold. Acting on the crisis in South Sudan will be a clear test of that legacy. Here are some ways that you can take action and contribute to that legacy:

Write your representatives and ask that they continue to honor foreign aid commitments and increase support for South Sudan, prioritizing food security and nutrition by funding proven, value-for-money interventions across all relevant sectors.

Also ask that your representatives increase pressure towards greater protection of humanitarian workers and spaces. We must ensure safe, unhindered humanitarian assistance while continuing to work towards the cessation of hostilities.

Read, watch, and listen to reportage on South Sudan. Subscribe to the outlets that are providing accurate and ethical reporting on the crisis and, if your outlet of choice is falling behind in their commitment to this topic, write a letter to the editor.

Finally, you can support organizations like Concern, which have a proven track record in emergency response and navigating complex crises while still achieving results. Donate To Concern

Concern in South Sudan

Concern has been in South Sudan since the beginning — and then some. Here are some highlights from last year’s programs in the country:

Lifesaving emergency nutrition and health services provided to acutely malnourished children and women, reaching over 142,000 people via 78 nutrition centers.

Consulted and treated more than 68,000 children and mothers via our mobile clinics in five hard-to-reach areas in Aweil North and West counties, which also provided nutrition sessions for over 90,000.

Water, sanitation, and hygiene programs reached over 150,000 people in Unity State and Northern Bahr el Ghazal, including 34,000 people living in Bentiu displacement camp.

Nutrition support and sufficiency for 19,000 people who took part in cash-for-work activities and were also supported with hand tools and improved staple crop seeds.

Improved water access for 49,000 people as a direct response to COVID-19.

-----------------------------------

South Sudan profile - Timeline2016 April - Riek Machar finally returns to Juba and is sworn in as first vice-president in a new unity government - but is sacked in July after further conflict and goes back into exile.

-----------------------------------

Timeline: South Sudan since independenceThe world’s newest country has been ravaged by a ruinous civil war that has killed hundreds of thousands of people.

Just two years after gaining independence in 2011, South Sudan descended into a devastating civil war that killed hundreds of thousands of people, forced millions from their homes and plunged parts of the country into famine.

On Saturday, the country’s warring sides formed a transitional coalition government in what is seen as a significant step to create peace in a country ravaged by conflict.

Here is a look at key events in South Sudan since independence.

2011: World’s newest country

On July 9, 2011, South Sudan formally declares independence from Sudan following six years of autonomy and 20 years of war.

The proclamation of independence comes after a referendum that saw a nearly 99 percent vote in favour of secession.

Salva Kiir is sworn in as president, with Riek Machar as his deputy. The two men are rivals but also leaders in the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement (SPLM) that led the push to secede from Sudan, which is now South Sudan’s northern neighbour.

The new country takes over three-quarters of the oil reserves in Sudan which retains control of all pipeline and export facilities.

Other thorny issues are the tracing of their common border and the status of disputed regions such as Abyei.





2012: Oil clashes

The two countries clash for nearly two months starting March 2012 over rights to the oilfields around Heglig, a town just inside Sudan.

South Sudanese troops briefly occupy the area, which accounts for half of Sudan’s crude oil production.

Arguments erupt over pipeline transit costs and Sudan confiscates millions of barrels of South Sudan crude.

South Sudan halts its production in January for more than a year accusing Khartoum of theft.

2013: Civil war

On July 23, 2013, Kiir fires Machar as well as all government ministers, their deputies and several police brigadiers.

On December 6, Machar accuses Kiir of “dictatorial” behaviour.

After a night of fighting in the capital, Juba, Kiir says on December 16 his forces had thwarted an attempted coup by Machar, who denies the claim.

Rival army units clash in Juba and the fighting spreads beyond the capital, fuelled by rivalries between Kiir’s majority Dinka ethnic group and Machar’s Nuer, the country’s second-largest ethnic group.

The country descends into civil war marked by ethnic massacres, widespread rape, the recruitment of child soldiers and other atrocities.





2016: Machar back, briefly

Machar and Kiir sign a peace accord in August 2015 that provides for Machar’s reappointment as vice president.

He returns to Juba and is sworn in on April 26, 2016.

But fighting between supporters of both leaders breaks out again in July. Machar goes into exile, accusing Kiir of trying to have him killed. He is replaced as vice president.

2018: Unity delays

On June 20, 2018, Kiir and Machar meet for the first time in two years.

On September 12, they sign a new peace agreement to end five years of war that killed more than 380,000 and forced roughly four million people from their homes.

It paves the way for a power-sharing government to be installed on May 12, with Machar again as the vice president.

Days before the deadline, they agree to a delay until November 12 because of outstanding differences.

On November 7, they extend the deadline by another 100 days.

Sticking points include the carving out of state boundaries, creation of a unified national army and protection for Machar.

2020: Coalition government

On February 22, Machar is finally sworn in as the first vice president after he and Kiir agree to move forward with a power-sharing government.

The two men have said outstanding issues will be negotiated under the new government.

Tens of thousands of rival forces still must be knitted together into a single army, a process that the United Nations and others have described as being behind schedule and poorly provisioned.

The current peace is extremely fragile, a UN report that was released on Thursday warned.

High-level corruption is rampant, militias are being armed and civilians deliberately starved, the Commission on Human Rights in South Sudan said in its report. More than half of the 12-million strong population face food shortages, it added.

-----------------------------------

Fighting in Sudan: A timeline of key eventsSix weeks after fighting erupted between Sudan’s army and the RSF, multiple ceasefire deals have faltered and hundreds have been killed.

Efforts to end Sudan’s war, in its seventh week, suffered a major setback when the Sudanese army suspended talks with its rival paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF).

Negotiations began in the Saudi Arabian port city of Jeddah in early May with the objective of protecting civilians and implementing ceasefire deals that have repeatedly been violated.

More than 1,800 people have been killed since the battles began in mid-April, according to the Armed Conflict Location and Event Data Project, and more than 1.6 million people have been displaced within the country or across its borders, the UN has said, with many fleeing to Egypt, Chad and South Sudan.





Here are the main developments in the war raging in the northeast African country.

April 15: Fighting erupts

On April 15, heavy gunfire and explosions rock the capital Khartoum, sparking panic in the city of more than five million people on the Nile.

The army, led by Sudan’s de facto ruler Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, and the Rapid Support Forces (RSF), led by Burhan’s deputy-turned-rival Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, known as “Hemedti”, each accuses the other of attacking first.

The clashes come after years of instability and repeated coups.

Fighting also erupts in the western region of Darfur, which is still reeling from a brutal war that started in 2003 under longtime ruler Omar al-Bashir.

April 22: Rush to evacuate

Countries rush to evacuate their nationals from Khartoum, by air or along desert roads, some lined with burned-out military vehicles.

Thousands flee in the frantic exodus while many embassies are ransacked.

Millions of Sudanese remain trapped in their homes, many quickly running short of water, food, medicines and basic supplies, and are fearful of the urban combat and roaming looters.

April 25: Failed truce, jailbreak

The US and Saudi Arabia negotiate a 72-hour truce but it is quickly violated. A series of further truce deals that follow meet the same fate.

Ahmed Harun, a leading figure in al-Bashir’s regime, which was deposed in 2019, announces he has escaped from prison.

The army says that al-Bashir, who is wanted by the International Criminal Court on genocide charges over the war in Darfur, was transferred to a hospital before the fighting began.

April 26:

Aid agencies raise alarm as humanitarian efforts are interrupted across the country. Organisations struggle to figure out how they can continue operating while ensuring the safety of their workers amid the fighting.

April 27:

The Sudanese army and the RSF agree to extend their ceasefire for “an additional 72 hours” amid continuing violence in Khartoum and the western Darfur region.

But fighting continues as warplanes patrol over the capital’s northern suburbs and fighters on the ground exchange artillery and heavy machine-gun fire, according to witnesses.

May 5: African ‘fortune seekers’

UN Special Representative Volker Perthes says armed “fortune seekers” from Mali, Chad and Niger are joining the fight, lured by money and gold.

His claim echoes the army’s allegation that the RSF is using mercenaries from elsewhere in Africa.





May 6: Jeddah talks start

US and Saudi-backed talks between army and RSF envoys begin in Jeddah.

May 11:

Both sides agree to allow urgently needed humanitarian aid to reach war-struck areas, committing “to ensuring the protection of civilians” but, again, the fighting never stops.

May 22:

A new one-week ceasefire comes into force on May 22 but is also repeatedly breached.

May 27:

Al-Burhan demands the dismissal of the UN envoy to Sudan, Volker Perthes, accusing him of having sparked the conflict.

May 31: Army walks out

On May 31, the army says it has suspended its participation in the ceasefire talks, accusing the RSF of failing to respect its truce commitments.

-----------------------------------



-----------------------------------

Rescue South Sudan Village PeopleEnd of Middle Ages: Collapse of Christian kingdoms; rise of Funj Sultanate.

17th century: Emergence of Sultanate of Darfur.

1821-1840

1821: Turco-Egyptian conquest of Sudan “unifies” small independent Sudanese states.

1840: Captain Salim Bey occupies areas along the Nile to Gondokoro, near Juba. Bahr al-Ghazal is invaded and occupied by other Turco-Egyptian officials.

1880s

1881: Revolt against the Turco-Egyptian administration. Unsuccessful attempts to conquer the South Sudan by the Mahdists.

1885: Mahdist forces capture Khartoum after a long seige; British General C.G Gordon is killed.

1885: AI-Mahdi dies; the Khalifa Abdullahi takes over.

1890s

1892: Belgians from Congo/Zaire capture Western Equatoria up to Mongalla – the “Lado enclave” is made part of the Belgian Congo. French forces under Major Marchand occupy parts of Bahr al-Ghazal and Western Upper Nile to Fashoda settlement on the river; by 1896 the French had an administration in these areas.

1896: Belgians agree to release the Lado enclave to British control when King Leopold of Belgium dies.

1897: French forces from Djibouti set off across Ethiopia aiming – unsuccessfully – to link up with the Fashoda expedition and annex Southern Sudan to French West Africa. The “Fashoda Incident” results from Marchand’s encounter with British forces.

1898: Anglo-Egyptian forces led by General Kitchener overthrow the Mahdist state in the battle of Omdurman. The two countries begin to establish condominium rule.

1899: Condominium Agreement signed. French agree to withdraw. South Sudan and North under British and Egyptian Condominium rule.

1900-1920s

“Pacification” of the country, characterized in the south and Nuba Mountains especially by periods of extreme violence.

1901: The Nuer and Azande wage armed resistance against colonial rule; there was similar resistance in Aliab Dinka.

1902: Three southern provinces and six northern treated as separate and distinct.

1910: Belgium’s King Leopold dies; the Lado enclave is added to British-held territory.

1918: Sunday becomes official day of worship in South Sudan, replacing Friday, which was introduced by Muslim Jellaba slave raiders.

1920s: After “pacification”, Southern Policy brings the Closed District Ordinance to the South and the Nuba Mountains and Southern Blue Nile. Some governors want to incorporate the South with Uganda: Southern region governors attend administrative conferences in East Africa, not Khartoum.

1922: Passports and Permits Ordinance controls travel between North and South.

1924: Abortive uprising against Condominium rule led by a South Sudan national, Ali Abdel Latif, probably a descendent of slaves.

1928: Language policy for the South establishes English as the lingua franca and encourages local languages at the expense of Arabic.

1930: Declaration of South Sudan Policy, South Sudan as culturally and racially distinct, would eventually develop as a separate territorial and political entity or be integrated into the British East Africa.

1940s

1946: Britain reverses the Southern Policy after agitation against it by the North. Protests against reversal by British administrators in the South.

1947: The Juba Conference held to allay the fears of its administrators in the South. South Sudanese themselves were betrayed by Britain. Juba Conference organized by colonial government – Southern chiefs agree with Northern nationalists to pursue a united Sudan. A crash program of integration follows, as Southern Policy is abandoned.

1950s

1953: The 800 administrative posts vacated by the British are “Sudanized” as “self-rule” is introduced, Northern politicians allocate four posts to Southerners, reflecting both racial prejudice and the inadequacy of Southern education. In the South, “Sudanization” is regarded as “Northernization”.

Southerners are not represented at the Cairo Conference on self-rule, on the grounds that they have ‘no party or organization’.

1955: In Equatoria, the Torit mutiny of Southern soldiers refusing transfer to the north marks the beginning of the first civil war, lasting 17 years.

1955: Beginning of first civil war between North and South.

1956: Sudan becomes independent.

1957: Government takes over mission schools in the South Sudan.

1958: General Abboud leads Military coup against elected civilian government.

1960s

1960: Imposition of Mohammedan Friday as day of rest instead of Sunday in South. Students strikes against this policy in the South.

1962: Missionaries Act expels Christians from the South for alleged incitement of South Sudanese against Arabization and Islamization. Schools in South Sudan strike against government policies and expulsion of Christian missionaries from the South. Civil war begins in the south, led by the Anya Nya movement.

1964: The Abboud regime steps up military action in the south, forcing thousands of southerners to seek asylum in neighboring countries.

1964: The “October Revolution” overthrows Abboud’s Islamist-led government.

1965: Round Table Conference in Khartoum between South and North to solve the Southern Problem ends in failure. Start of Jellaba Arab massacres of innocent South Sudanese civilians in Juba, Wau and other towns.

1968: Assassination of William Deng by government troops near Rumbek.

May 1969: A group of officers led by Colonel Jaafar Mohamed Nimeiri takes power in a military coup with leftist and Communist support. Jaafar Nimeiri becomes President after “May Revolution”; briefly anti-Western.

1970s

1972: Under the Addis Ababa peace agreement between the government and the Anya Nya, the South becomes a self-governing region.

1974: Riots in Juba follow rumors that Egyptian farmers will be settled in the area drained by the prospective Jonglei Canal.

1975: Revolts by South Sudanese soldiers in Akobo and other barracks, protesting their transfer to the North, in violation of Addis Ababa Agreement.

1976: Capt. Aguet led a mutiny in Wau, fled into exile but was lured back by fellow Southerners and then shot.

1978: Oil is discovered near Bentiu, Upper Nile, Southern Sudan, and Chevron Company announces discovery of oil in Abyei.

1980s

1980: Jonglei Canal construction begins, despite concerns of local people. Nimeiri decrees changes in South Sudan borders after discovery of huge oil deposits in Bentiu, South Sudan.

1981: Chevron discovers commercial oil deposits in the “Unity (South)” field north of Bentiu. With neighboring Heglig field in Abyei, recoverable reserves are estimated at 236 million barrels.

1983: Nimeiri embarks on “redivision” of the south from one autonomous unit to three states; a map attached to the Regional Government bill puts the area where oil has been found into northern Sudan. His creation of new “Unity” state around Bentiu to pry it from the south causes political upheaval among southerners, as does presidential decree that oil refinery is to be built at Kosti, in the North, instead of Bentiu.

Nimeiri introduces “Sharia” or “September” laws. In eighteen months, 200 people -mostly displaced – suffer amputation for theft. South is “redivided” into three regions, and the single regional government is abolished. Civil war resumes after mutinies at Bor garrison, Pibor, Pochalla, Wangkai and Ayod, leading to the formation of the SPLA/SPLM.

1984: After SPLA attacks on its oil fields in the south, Chevron suspends operations. Jonglei Canal work is halted by SPLA activity.

April 16, 1985: Nimeiri is overthrown after a popular uprising headed by the “National Alliance for National Salvation” leads to a military coup by his defense minister, General Abd al- Rahman Swar al-Dahab.

March 1987: (EI Da’ein massacre): Hundreds of displaced Dinkas are massacred by Rezeigat in Ed-Da’ein, Darfur. A subsequent report on the massacre details the kidnapping and enslavement of Dinka women and children as part of the militia raiding pattern in Northern Bahr al-Ghazal.

November 1988: “November Accord” negotiated by the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) with the SPLA/SPLM, agree in principle to freeze Sharia laws, cease fire, and cancel the state of emergency. Returning DUP leader Muhamed Osman al-Mirghani receives a popular hero’s welcome at Khartoum airport.

June 1989: On the eve of a key cabinet meeting, and with the government delegation ready to meet John Garang in Addis Ababa on 4 July, a military coup on 30 June thwarts the peace process. Omar Hassan Ahmad Al-Bashir comes to power.

December 1989: Jebelain Massacre: At least 1000 Shilluk Southern migrant agricultural workers at Jebelain on the White Nile are massacred by an Arab militia.

1990s

1990: Military intelligence begins detaining educated Nuba men in Kadugli and Dilling.

December 31, 1990: Al-Bashir announces that Shari’a law is to be implemented with immediate effect in northern Sudan.

March 1991: 600 Southern civilians are killed by Arab militias at Rokon, between Maridi and Juba, reportedly for refusing to act as human shields against SPLA attacks on the military.

May 1991: After the fall of the Mengistu regime in Addis Ababa, some 500,000 Southern Sudanese are forced to return to Sudan from border areas in Ethiopia, and are bombed by the Sudanese air force.

October 1991: Army seals off the Nuba Mountains and begins operations to drive out the Nuba and destroy SPLA strength there.

December 1991: The secret war against the Nuba is highlighted by reports from Africa Watch and Survival International, which point to growing incidence of “disappearances” of educated Nuba and the deaths of thousands of men, women and children in raids by the army and government-backed militias.

January 1992: Jihad declared in Nuba Mountains at AI-Obeid meeting of regional governors of Southern Kordofan. The regional military commander pledges to “cleanse” every area “sullied by the (SPLA) outlaws”.

May 1992: After a government attack on the SPLA-held town of Kapoeta, some 22,000 Sudanese seek asylum across the Kenyan border, including 12,500 unaccompanied minors (later known as Lost Boys and Girls of Sudan).

June 1992: The government begins in earnest the forcible mass relocation of the Nuba from the conflict zone in the Nuba Mountains. Thousands of civilians are moved to “peace villages” – displaced persons’ camps – further north.

December 1992: Government troops in the South are allegedly offered financial rewards for impregnating Southern women. The “largest ever” massacre of Nuba people, at Heiban, is carried out on 25 December, and Amnesty International reports operations tantamount to “ethnic cleansing”.

April 1993: Thousands of displaced from Nuba Mountains and Bentiu reach northern Kordofan. Women say the PDF raped them: there is an unusually high rate of pregnancy.

August 18, 1993: US State Department adds Sudan to its list of states sponsoring terrorism.

September 1993: The heads of state of Ethiopia, Eritrea, Uganda and Kenya establish a committee to resolve the civil war in Sudan, in their capacity as members of the Inter-Governmental Authority on Drought and Development (IGADD). Al-Bashir accepts the initiative but warns against foreign intervention.

November 20, 1993: The TGADD Initiative follows the resolution passed in Kampala by African members of the Eastern and Southern African Preferential Trade Area to seek a solution to the conflict.

September 1994: Al-Bashir claims some of the IGADD states convening peace talks in the Horn of Africa are “not neutral”: there is deadlock over the issues of self-determination and the separation of state and religion. Garang endorses the IGADD declaration of principles.

October 1994: A new offensive is launched in the Nuba Mountains: government forces seek to encircle the area under SPLA control and deny villagers access to water points, including a “shoot to kill” policy.

2000s

February 2003: Fighting erupts in Darfur region between government and insurgents.

September 25, 2003: Security Arrangement Agreement signed.

January 7, 2004: In Naivasha, Kenya wealth sharing agreement signed. In Naivasha, Kenya, power-sharing, the status of Abyei and the administration of Nuba Mts. and Southern Blue Nile protocols agreements signed.

January 2005: Government and Southern rebels sign a peace deal. It includes a permanent ceasefire and accords on wealth and power sharing.

January 9, 2005: Final comprehensive peace agreement signed in Nairobi, Kenya, by Dr. John Garang on behalf of the SPLAIM and Sudan vice president Taha for Arab Sudan.

July 9, 2005: The SPLMJA leader John Garang is sworn in as first vice president. A constitution which gives a large degree of autonomy to the South is signed.

July 30, 2005: SPLM/A Leader and First Vice President of Sudan, Dr. John Garang de Mabior died in a helicopter crash between the border of Uganda and Sudan. His deputy, Salva Kiir Mayardit succeeded him. That day became a holiday called “Martyrs’ Day” in honor of all fallen heroes.

September 2005: Power-sharing government is formed in Khartoum. In October, autonomous government is formed in the South, in line with January 2005 peace deal.

October 11, 2007: President of Government of South Sudan (GOSS) announced the withdrawal of SPLM from the Government of National Unity Congress Party partner of Sudan President Omar Bashir.

2008 April: Counting begins in national census which is seen as a vital step towards holding democratic elections after the landmark 2005 North-South peace deal.

2008 June: President al-Bashir and Southern leader Salva Kiir Mayardit agree to seek international arbitration to resolve dispute over Abyei.

March 4, 2009: International Criminal Court issued arrest warrant for Sudan President Omar al-Bashir for war crimes and crimes against humanity in Darfur, but genocide charges dropped.

July 22, 2009: The Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) in The Hague passed a landmark ruling on Abyei by stating that the ABC (Abyei Border Commission) under the CPA exceeded its mandate; Abyei divided into two parts– the 9 Ngok Dinka to the south and Arab Messeria to the north, as well as controversially awarding the Heglig and Bamboo oilfields to Southern Khordufan in the north.

July 2009: North and South Sudan say they accept ruling by arbitration court in The Hague shrinking disputed Abyei region and placing the major Heglig oil field in the North.

Independence Vote

December 2009: Leaders of North and South reach deal on terms of referendum on independence due in South by 20II.

January 2010: President Omar al-Bashir says he would accept referendum result, even if South opted for independence.

April 11-15, 2010: National Elections held all over Sudan. SPLM party wins overwhelmingly in spite of serious allegations of fraud and rigging. Salva Kiir Mayardit sworn in as first elected President of government of South Sudan (GOSS)

July 2010: Formation of the Southern Sudan Referendum Commission (SSRC).

July 2010: International Criminal Court issues second arrest warrant for President al- Bashir – this time on charges of genocide.

November 15, 2010: Registration starts across South Sudan, North Sudan and seven countries in Diaspora for the South Sudan 2011 Referendum for Self Determination to take place next year, on January 9, 2011. Southerners will vote for either Separation or Unity.

December 8, 2010: End of registration for the Southern Sudan Referendum. Nearly 4 million southern Sudanese registered both in South Sudan and in eight other foreign countries and the north.

October 11, 2007: President of Government of South Sudan (GOSS) announced the withdrawal of SPLM from the Government of National Unity with National Congress Party partner of Sudan President Omar al-Bashir.

December 14, 2010: The Constitutional Court in Khartoum, accept a petition by north Sudanese lawyers against the SSRC.

The Year 2011

January 9-15: Southern Sudanese in the South and those in the North and eight other countries vote in the South Sudan Referendum; the vote is either for UNITY or SECESSION of the South.

February 9, 2011: The final results of the Referendum announced. Nearly 99% of South Sudanese voted overwhelmingly to SECEDE FROM SUDAN.

July 9, 2011: DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE OFFICIALLY ANNOUNCED.

-----------------------------------

Instability in South SudanBackground

In December 2013, following a political struggle between Salva Kiir and Riek Machar that led to Machar's removal as vice president, violence erupted between presidential guard soldiers from the two largest ethnic groups in South Sudan. Soldiers from the Dinka ethnic group aligned with Kiir and those from the Nuer ethnic group supported Machar. Amid chaos, Kiir announced that Machar had attempted a coup, and violence spread quickly to Jonglei, Upper Nile, and Unity states. From the outbreak of conflict, armed groups targeted civilians along ethnic lines, committed rape and sexual violence, destroyed property, looted villages, and recruited children into their ranks.

Under the threat of international sanctions and following several rounds of negotiations supported by the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), Kiir signed a peace agreement with Machar in August 2015. As the first step toward ending the civil war, Machar returned to Juba in April 2016 and was once again sworn in as vice president, after spending more than two years outside of the country. Soon after his return, violence broke out between government forces and opposition factions, once more displacing tens of thousands of people. Machar fled the country and was eventually detained in South Africa. In 2017 and 2018, a series of cease-fires were negotiated and subsequently violated between the two sides and other factions.

After almost five years of civil war, Kiir and Machar participated in negotiations mediated by Uganda and Sudan in June 2018. Later that month, Kiir and Machar signed the Khartoum Declaration of Agreement that included a cease-fire and a pledge to negotiate a power-sharing agreement to end the war. Despite sporadic violations over the ensuing weeks, Kiir and Machar signed a final cease-fire and power-sharing agreement in August 2018. This agreement was followed by a peace agreement to end the civil war signed by the government and Machar’s opposition party, along with several other rebel factions. The agreement, called the Revitalized Agreement on the Resolution of the Conflict in South Sudan, included a new power-sharing structure and reinstated Machar as vice president.

In late October 2018, Machar returned to South Sudan for a nationwide peace celebration to mark the end of the civil war. However, reports of continued attacks and violations, coupled with the collapse of multiple previous peace deals, highlighted concerns that the fragile peace may not hold. Although official casualties are difficult to confirm, one April 2018 study estimated that nearly four hundred thousand people were killed during the five years of war, and an additional nearly four million were internally displaced or fled the country.

In late December 2013, the UN Security Council authorized a rapid deployment of about 6,000 security forces, in addition to 7,600 peacekeepers already in the country, to aid in state-building efforts. In May 2014, the Security Council voted in a rare move to shift the mission’s mandate from state-building to civilian protection, authorizing UN troops to use force. Since reprioritizing protection, the UN Mission in the Republic of South Sudan has faced extreme challenges due to the deterioration of the security situation and its complex relationship with the government of the Republic of South Sudan. The UN authorized the deployment of an additional four thousand peacekeepers as part of a regional protection force in 2016, although their arrival was delayed until August 2017.

Violence also prevented farmers from planting or harvesting crops, causing food shortages nationwide. In July 2014, the UN Security Council declared South Sudan’s food crisis the “worst in the world.” Famine was declared in South Sudan during the first few months of 2017, with nearly five million people at risk from food insecurity. Critical food shortages have continued since then, with the number of people facing food insecurity surpassing even peak civil war levels.

Concerns

The United States was a lead facilitator of South Sudanese independence, which was decided in a 2011 referendum [PDF], and provided diplomatic support and humanitarian aid. Prior to the outbreak of the civil war in 2013, the United States supported and advocated for the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement (SPLM), which became the new country’s government. Though largely taking a back seat in mediation efforts run by the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) and neighboring countries, the United States and its international partners have an interest in ensuring a lasting settlement to the conflict in South Sudan, addressing the humanitarian crisis caused by the war, and preventing destabilizing regional spillover.

Recent Developments

Since the end of the civil war, increasing intercommunal violence and attacks, the threat of the peace process unraveling, and dire humanitarian conditions across large swaths of South Sudan have placed renewed urgency on improving security and meeting basic protection needs for South Sudan’s civilians. Years after President of South Sudan Salva Kiir and former opposition leader Riek Machar formed a unity government in 2020, there has been slow progress on implementing the 2018 peace agreement [PDF].

In reaction to overwhelming violence against civilians in the civil war, the UN peacekeeping mission in the country (UNMISS) established large-scale camps meant to protect civilians from ongoing violence. UNMISS began to scale back personnel at these civilian protection sites in fall 2020 in favor of responding more flexibly to violence in the country, raising questions about the return of refugees and government provision of security across the country. The situation worsened in April 2023 when fighting erupted in Sudan, sending an exodus of refugees, including many South Sudanese, fleeing southward to South Sudan. Violent clashes and hunger have afflicted overcrowded camps, and the government and aid organizations in South Sudan lack the resources to meet humanitarian needs. In 2023, more than 7.7 million people, or two-thirds of the population, faced severe food insecurity—the worst hunger crisis the country has ever faced.

The UN warns that the conflict in neighboring Sudan has intensified stress on South Sudan and distracted from the implementation of the peace deal. The unity government remains intact, but security sector reforms have languished as skeptical parties do not trust each other and hold back their best fighters in anticipation of a possible return to fighting. The UN also extended sanctions on South Sudan through 2024, citing human rights violations. Long-delayed national elections are set for December 2024, and President Salva Kiir has declared his intention to run in what he claims will be a free and fair race. However, a persistent rift between Kiir and Machar, the leaders of the largest civil war factions, has raised fears that violence could flare up in the lead-up to elections. Meanwhile, an armed insurgency [PDF] in the south of the country, led by Thomas Cirillo and his National Salvation Front (NSF), poses a severe threat to civilians and further endangers the peace process.

-----------------------------------

South Sudanese Civil War2013–2020 civil war in South Sudan

The South Sudanese Civil War was a multi-sided civil war in South Sudan between forces of the government and opposition forces. In December 2013, President Kiir accused his former deputy Riek Machar and 10 others of attempting a coup d'état.[52][53] Machar denied trying to start a coup and fled to lead the SPLM – in opposition (SPLM-IO).[54] Fighting broke out between the Sudan People's Liberation Movement (SPLM) and SPLM-IO, igniting the civil war. Ugandan troops were deployed to fight alongside the South Sudanese government.[55] The United Nations has peacekeepers in the country as part of the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS).[56]

In January 2014, the first ceasefire agreement was reached. Fighting continued and would be followed by several more ceasefire agreements. Negotiations were mediated by "IGAD +" (which includes the eight regional nations called the Intergovernmental Authority on Development as well as the African Union, United Nations, China, the EU, USA, UK and Norway). A peace agreement known as the "Compromise Peace Agreement" was signed in August 2015.[56] Machar returned to Juba in 2016 and was appointed vice president.[57] Following a second breakout of fighting within Juba,[58] the SPLM-IO fled to the surrounding and previously peaceful Equatoria region. Kiir replaced Machar as First Vice President with Taban Deng Gai, splitting the opposition, and rebel in-fighting became a major part of the conflict.[59][60] A rivalry between the President and Paul Malong Awan, former army chief, also led to fighting.[61] In August 2018, another power sharing agreement came into effect.[62] On 22 February 2020, rivals Kiir and Machar struck a unity deal and formed a coalition government.[63]

About 400,000 people were estimated to have been killed in the war by April 2018, including notable atrocities such as the 2014 Bentiu massacre.[49] Although both men had supporters from across South Sudan's ethnic divides, subsequent fighting had ethnic undertones. Kiir's Dinka ethnic group has been accused of attacking other ethnic groups and Machar's Nuer ethnic group has been accused of attacking the Dinka.[64] More than 4 million people have been displaced, with about 1.8 million of those internally displaced, and about 2.5 million having fled to neighboring countries, especially Uganda and Sudan.[65] Fighting in the agricultural heartland in the south of the country caused the number of people facing starvation to soar to 6 million,[66] causing famine in 2017 in some areas.[67] The country's economy has also been devastated. According to the IMF in October 2017, real income had halved since 2013 and inflation was more than 300% per annum.[68]

Background [ edit ]

A South Sudanese man holding a HK G3, May 2011

Previous rebellions [ edit ]

The Comprehensive Peace Agreement signed on 9 January 2005 between the Sudan People's Liberation Movement (SPLM) and the government of the Sudan ended the war for independence that started in 1983. Under the terms of the peace agreement, a Southern Sudan Autonomous Region was created and run by the SPLM with a promise that a referendum would be held on independence in 2011. During the six years period of autonomy, the desire for independence kept in-fighting within the SPLM in check, but disputes arose over how to share the oil revenues. One consequence of the war's end was the oil fields in southern Sudan could be developed far more extensively than was possible during the war and began to be pumped. Between 2006 and 2009, sales of oil brought in an annual average of US$2.1 billion to the Southern Sudan Autonomous Region. Disputes between leading personalities in the SPLM over how to appropriate the oil revenues led to recurring tensions. A system emerged during the autonomous period where SPLM leaders used the wealth generated by the oil to buy the loyalty of not only the troops, but the people at large, creating intense competition to control the oil. After the 2011 referendum led to 98% of voters choosing independence from the Sudan, on 9 July 2011 South Sudan became an independent nation.

In 2010, after a disputed election, George Athor led the South Sudan Democratic Movement in rebellion against the government. The same year, a faction of the South Sudan Democratic Movement, called the Cobra Faction, led by David Yau Yau rebelled against the government they accused of being prejudiced against the Murle. His faction signed a cease-fire with the government in 2011 and his militia was reintegrated into the army but he then defected again in 2012. After the army's notorious 2010 disarmament campaign with widespread abuses of the Shilluk people, who were alleging persecution by the ruling Dinka, John Uliny from the Shilluk people began a rebellion, leading the Upper Nile faction of the South Sudan Democratic Movement. Gabriel Tang, who led a militia allied to Khartoum during the Second Sudanese Civil War, clashed regularly with the SPLA until 2011 when his soldiers were reintegrated into the national army. In 2011, Peter Gadet led a rebellion with the South Sudan Liberation Army, but was reintegrated into the army the same year. In a strategy of co-option known as "big tent", the government often buys off community militia and pardons its leaders.[72] Others call the use of rebellion to receive public office as "bad culture"[73] and an incentive to rebel.[74]

After rumors about a planned coup surfaced in Juba in late 2012, South Sudanese President Salva Kiir began to reorganize the senior leadership of his government, party, and military in an unprecedented scale.[75] In January 2013, Kiir replaced the inspector general of the national police service with a lieutenant from the army and dismissed six deputy chiefs of staff and 29 major generals in the army.[75] In February 2013, Kiir retired an additional 117 army generals[76] but this was viewed as troublesome in regards to a power grab by others.[77] Kiir had also suggested that his rivals were trying to revive the rifts that had provoked infighting in the 1990s.[78] In July 2013, Kiir dismissed Vice President Riek Machar, one-time leader of the Nasir revolt, along with his entire cabinet. Kiir suspended the SPLM Secretary-General Pagan Amum Okech and forbade him from leaving Juba or speaking to the media.[79] The decrees elicited fears of political unrest, with Machar claiming that Kiir's move was a step towards dictatorship and announcing that he would challenge Kiir in the 2015 presidential election.[80][81] He said that if the country is to be united, it cannot tolerate "one man's rule."[82] Kiir disbanded all of the top-level organs of the SPLM party, including the Political Bureau, the National Convention and the National Liberation Council in November 2013. He cited their failed performance and the expiration of their term limits.[83]

Ethnic tension [ edit ]

For millennia, human society in the South Sudan region operated as a barter economy, with cattle being the primary medium of exchange. Cattle raids between different ethnic groups were an accepted and honorable way to acquire more cattle. However, there were widely accepted limits on the amount of violence permissible in cattle raids, and tribal elders would intervene if cattle raid violence became excessive. Furthermore, the antiquated weapons used in cattle raids were not likely to inflict mass casualties. During the second war of independence from the Sudan, the government in Khartoum, beginning in 1984, began a deliberate policy of "divide and rule" by arming young men with assault rifles and ammunition and encouraging them to engage in unlimited violence on cattle raids, hoping the resulting ethnic violence would cause so much disunity as to end the rebellion. This policy failed to end the rebellion, but it did cause the breakdown of accepted norms regarding violence on cattle raids and an increase in ethnic tensions between the peoples of southern Sudan, leaving a legacy of distrust and bitterness that continues to this day. In 2010, Dennis Blair, then United States Director of National Intelligence, issued a warning that "over the next five years,...a new mass killing or genocide is most likely to occur in southern Sudan."[85][86] In 2011, there was fighting between the Murle and the Lou Nuer, mostly over cattle raids and abductions of children to be raised into the other tribe. The Nuer White Army released a statement stating its intention to "wipe out the entire Murle tribe on the face of the earth as the only solution to guarantee long-term security of Nuer's cattle".[87] Notably, in the Pibor massacre, an estimated 900[88] to 3,000[89] people were killed in Pibor. Although Machar and Kiir are both members of the SPLM, they stem from different tribes with a history of conflict. Kiir is an ethnic Dinka, while Machar is an ethnic Nuer.[82][90]

Course of the conflict [ edit ]

Initial mutiny (2013) [ edit ]

It began on the evening of Sunday, 15 December 2013, at the meeting of the National Liberation Council in the Nyakuron neighbourhood of Juba, South Sudan's capital, when opposition leaders Dr. Riek Machar, Pagan Amum and Rebecca Nyandeng voted to boycott the meeting.[28]

The South Sudanese Sudan Tribune reported clashes breaking out in the Munuki neighbourhood[91] late on 14 December in Juba between members of the presidential guard.[82] Kiir also claimed that the fighting began when unidentified, uniformed personnel started shooting at a meeting of the SPLM.[77] Former Minister of Higher Education Peter Adwok said that on the evening 15 December after the meeting of the National Liberation Council had failed, Kiir told Major General Marial Ciennoung to disarm his soldiers of the "Tiger Battalion," which he did. Adwok then controversially claims that the officer in charge of the weapons stores, opened them and rearmed only the Dinka soldiers. A Nuer soldier passing by questioned this and a fistfight then ensued between the two and attracted the attention of the "commander and his deputy to the scene." Unable to calm the situation, more soldiers got involved and raided the stores. It culminated in the Nuer soldiers taking control of the military headquarters. The next morning, he says that Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA) reinforcements arrived and dislodged the mutineers. He then explained standard procedure:

"Military doctrine dictates that once a contingent of mutinous troops have been dislodged, appeal is made for their surrender and then disarmed. Those who remained loyal (to the president) are also disarmed to prevent bad blood. The loyal troops of Tiger, hailing mainly from Warrap and Aweil, have not been disarmed. In fact, they are the ones rampaging Juba, looting and shooting to kill any Nuer in the residential neighbourhoods."

Adwok was then placed on a list of wanted politicians, to which he said "this may be my last contribution, because, as I said, I'm waiting for the police in order to join my colleagues in detention."[92] On Christmas Day, five days after his controversial publication, Adwok was arrested and held for two days. He was later detained at the Juba airport when attempting to leave the country. His passport was also confiscated.[93]

The military headquarters near Juba University was then attacked with fighting continuing throughout the night.[80] The next day heavy gunfire and mortar fire were reported, and[82] UNMISS announced that hundreds of civilians sought refuge inside its facilities[80] Aguer said that some military installations had been attacked but that "the army is in full control of Juba," that the tense situation was unlikely to deteriorate, and an investigation was under way.[82] Several people were also injured during the fighting.[94] Juba International Airport was closed indefinitely;[95] Kenyan airlines Fly540 and Kenya Airways indefinitely suspended flights to Juba after the airport closed.[96] A dusk-to-dawn curfew was imposed[94] until further notice. State-owned SSTV went off-air for several hours. When it returned to broadcasting, it aired a message by President Salva Kiir.[94] The dissident group was said to include Sudan People's Liberation Movement (SPLM) founder John Garang's widow, Rebecca Garang.[95]

Foreign Minister Barnaba Marial Benjamin claimed that those that were a part of the coup were "disgruntled" soldiers and politicians led by Machar[80] and that at least ten people were confirmed to have been detained, seven were confirmed as former ministers including former Finance Minister Kosti Manibe and Pagan Amum was later reported to be held in house arrest.[97] Other arrests included those of Kiir's critics.[79] Information Minister Micheal Makuei Leuth claimed that Machar had left Juba with some soldiers and stolen cattle.[98]

President Salva Kiir spoke on national television on 16 December, having abandoned his signature suit and cowboy hat for military fatigues, and said, while surrounded by government officials, that the coup had been foiled and that it was orchestrated by a group of soldiers allied with the former vice president.[77][80][94] On 21 December, the government announced its unconditional readiness to hold peace talks with any rebel group, including Machar[99] In a Christmas message, Kiir warned of the fighting becoming a tribal conflict.[100] Chief Whip and MP from the large state of Eastern Equatoria, Tulio Odongi Ayahu, announced his support for Kiir.[101] The SPLM-affiliated youth group condemned the attempted overthrow of Kiir.[102]

Machar spoke for the first time since the crisis began on 18 December in which he said he was not aware of any coup attempt, but instead blamed Kiir for fabricating such allegations of a coup in order to settle political scores and target political opponents. He accused Kiir of inciting ethnic tensions to achieve his ends. He also said the violence was started by the presidential guard, which was founded by Kiir and told to report directly to him instead of the military.[78] He refused to deny or acknowledge support for Gadet but that "the rebels are acting in the right direction." On 22 December, Machar said he wanted to be the leader of the country and that "his" forces would maintain control of the country's oil fields.[103]

Former undersecretary of culture, Jok Madut Jok, warned that the violence could "escalate into tragic acts of ethnic cleansing".[104]

Beginning of rebellion (2013–2014) [ edit ]

A South Sudanese mother and her son at a refugee camp in Gambela in 2014. Three other sons who also tried to escape the violence were killed.

Fighting also occurred near the presidential palace and other areas of Juba. Ajak Bullen, a doctor at a military hospital, said that "so far, we have lost seven soldiers who died while they were waiting for medical attention and a further 59 who were killed outside." The International Crisis Group (ICG) also reported that Machar's house had been bombarded and "surrounded, including with tanks", while "parts of Juba have been reduced to rubble".[79] The local Radio Tamazuj suggested UNMISS were absent from the streets in Juba and that December 2013's president of the UN Security Council had announced that the peacekeepers would not intervene in the fighting.[97] One incident, in which Human Right Watch describes as the worst single incident during the Juba conflict, was when 200–400 Nuer men were collected, placed in a police force building and massacred.[105] The next day, eye witness report seeing hundreds of bodies being moved from a clinic in the Jebel area of Juba[106][105].A semblance of calm returned to Juba by 18 December.[78] The UN reported that 13,000 people were taking refuge from the fighting in its two compounds in Juba.[79][98] Violence in Juba reportedly calmed, though there were unconfirmed reports of several students killed by security personnel at Juba University on 18 December. On 10 February 2014, the UN base in Juba was surrounded by armed government troops and policemen, who demanded that the UN surrender Nuer civilians sheltering there.[107]

The UN announced that thousands of people had sought refuge within the UN's compounds.[108] Two Indian peacekeepers were killed helping to protect 36 civilians in Akobo, Jonglei, when they were attacked by about 2,000 armed Nuer youths.[109] The attackers were apparently intending to kill the civilians sheltering at the UN base,[110] in a move condemned by the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon.[111]

About 200 employees of petroleum operators, of which the three largest were China National Petroleum Corp, ONGC Videsh and Petronas, sought refuge at an UN compound in Bentiu.[112] This followed the deaths of 16 such workers, five workers at a field in Unity State on 18 December and another 11 at the Thar Jath field the next day. Government soldiers then took control of the fields and said that production continued normally.[113] The rebels had reportedly taken over at least some of the country's oil fields amidst fears of Sudan intervening in the country.[114]

In the north of Unity, Pariang county is home to the Rueng Dinka—the only Dinka group in the state. Fighting broke out in Pariang on 20 December, when some SPLA troops defected to the rebels. On 24 December, an estimated 400 defectors moved southwards from Jaw, the SPLA's northernmost operating base towards positions held by SPLA forces loyal to Koang Chuol. As of 26 December, the SPLA claimed they had destroyed 37 rebel vehicles in Pariang county, which remains in the hands of the SPLA.[115]

Marines evacuate U.S. citizens from South Sudan, 3 January 2014

Following calls from the government of South Sudan, Uganda deployed its troops to Juba to assist in securing the airport and evacuating Ugandan citizens.[116] On 21 December a flight of three US Air Force V-22 Osprey aircraft en route to evacuate US nationals from Bor took small arms fire from the ground, injuring four Navy SEALs.[117] South Sudan blamed the rebels for the incident.[118] A second evacuation attempt by four UN and civilian helicopters succeeded in evacuating about 15 US nationals, Sudanese-Americans and those working in humanitarian operations, from the United Nations base in Bor on 22 December. Although the base was surrounded by 2,000 armed youths, a rebel commander had promised safe passage for the evacuation. In total 380 officials and private citizens as well as about 300 foreign citizens were flown to Nairobi.[119] The United States military announced a repositioning of its forces in Africa to prepare for possible further evacuations as the United Nations warned of the planned strikes.[120] Many of these reports have come from the hundreds of foreign oil company employees gathered at the airport to leave.[91] Five Ugandan and ten Kenyan citizens were also evacuated from Bor and then Juba before leaving the country. The Kenyan government said that there were 30,000 of its nationals in the country and that 10,000 had applied for emergency documents.[121]

On 22 December 2013, U.S. and Nigerian envoys were on their way to Juba to try to negotiate a solution.[103] The U.S. envoy to the country, Donald Booth, saying that having spoken to Kiir, the latter was committed to talks with Machar without preconditions.[122] Machar said that the rebel side was ready for talks that could possibly occur in Ethiopia. He said he wanted free and fair elections and that it is best if Kiir leaves.[123][124] His conditions for talks were that his "comrades", including Rebecca Garang and Pagan Amum, be released from detention to be evacuated to Addis Ababa. Information minister Makuei said those involved in the coup would not be released and dismissed claim that the rebels had taken the major oil fields.[32]

The Nuer White Army (flag above) joined the conflict on the side of the opposition.

Fighting had spread to Bor by 17 December, where three people had died[125] and over 1,000 people sought refuge in the UN base.[78] The situation escalated when around 2,000 soldiers led by Peter Gadet revolted and attacked the city of Bor on 18 December. The rebels quickly seized much of the settlement.[126][127] Ethnically targeted violence was also reported and the Dinka feared a repeat of the Bor massacre.[104] On 23 December, Aguer said the army was on its way to Jonglei and Unity to retake territory.[120] On 24 December, the government of South Sudan claimed to have recaptured Bor.[128] Most of Gadet's troops had left by the end of the day.[129] On 27 December, Machar condemned Ugandan interference, claimed Ugandan air forces bombed their positions in Bor.[130] There was also tension at the UN compound in the city as armed fighters had entered it and about 17,000 civilians seeking protection were at the location.[131] The UN also reported that their base was being reinforced with additional protective barriers, including the area hosting the displaced civilians.[132] On 29 December, a UN helicopter spotted a group of armed youths 50 kilometres (31 miles) from Bor but could not confirm their numbers. On 30 December, South Sudanese government troops clashed with ethnic White Army militiamen and other rebel factions loyal to Machar late on Monday near Bor.[133] By 31 December, the rebels were reaching the center of Bor[134] and by 2 January, Nhial admitted government withdrawal from the city[135] and Kiir declared a state of emergency in Unity and Jonglei states, where rebels controlled the capitals.[136] On 4 January intense battles involving tanks and artillery were reported on the outskirts of Bor, which by this time had changed hands three times since fighting in as many weeks.[137] Rebels claimed that a South Sudanese army general has been killed in the fighting, as his convoy approaching Bor was ambushed. The SPLA brought large numbers of reinforcements bringing the total SPLA troops 25 km (16 mi) Bor close to 2,000.[138][139]

On 25 December, fighting continued in Malakal,[140] according to Ateny, who added that the oil fields were secured[141] and denied rebels had taken over the city. On 27 December, the army said it had taken back full control of Malakal, the administrative center of Upper Nile, a state which currently supplied all of South Sudan's crude oil, after fighting shut down oil fields in other areas.[43][142] By February 2014, the UN compound in Malakal housed around 20,000 people who had fled the conflict. Rebel forces claimed to have recaptured Malakal from the army, while army forces claimed to have held the city after heavy fighting. The UNMISS reported that on 14 January heavy fighting broke out near the UN compound in Malakal. One civilian was killed and dozens of civilians were wounded in that attack.[143][144] Civilians emptied out of the town, and at least 200 drowned when their overcrowded boat sank as they tried to flee across the Nile.[145][146] On 15 January, fighting continued in the streets of Malakal[147] with both sides claiming to control the town. On 18 February 2014, fighting between members of various ethnicities broke out within the UN Mission in the capital city of Upper Nile State, Malakal, resulting in ten deaths.[148]

In December 2013, parts of the SPLA's 4th Division rebelled under the leadership of James Koang (pictured).

In Bentiu, capital of Unity State, SPLA 4th Division divided along factional lines with troops, including division commander James Koang, clashed with loyal troops, who retreated from their barracks on 20 December 2013.[149] The next day, Koang announced allegiance to Machar and declared an 'interim government' of the state and state governor Nugen Monytuel fled Mayom county.[150][151] The loyal soldiers retreated to the outlying Abiemnom County and were reinforced by Western Bahr el Ghazal's 5th division and the Northern Bahr el Ghazal's 3rd division to take back Bentiu.[115] South Sudan Liberation Movement (SSLA) militia forces, led by the Bul Nuer commander Matthew Puljang, decided to support them.[115][2] By 27 December, a combined force of SSLA and SPLA seized Mayom, 90 kilometers from Bentiu, on 29 December. Peter Dak, the rebel commander in Mayom, announced that he fled the town on 7 January.[115][152] Around 8 January 2014, the SPLA forces advanced on Bentiu, which had been mostly evacuated,[115][153] securing the city on 10 January 2014.[115]

Peace talks and rebel split (2014–2015) [ edit ]

The South Sudan Liberation Movement (flag above) joined the conflict on the side of the government.

In January 2014, direct negotiations between both sides, as mediated by "IGAD +" (which includes the eight regional nations as well as the African Union, United Nations, China, the EU, USA, UK and Norway), began.[154][155] In order to ensure a stronger negotiating position, South Sudanese troops fighting alongside Ugandan troops retook every town held by the rebels, including Bor on 18 January[156] and Malakal on 20 January.[157] Government troops were assisted by Ugandan troops, against the wishes of IGAD[158] who feared a wider regional conflict.[159] Uganda announced they had joined the fight in January[160] after previously denying it,[161] saying the troops were to only to evacuate Ugandan nationals.[162] On 23 January 2014, representatives of the Government of South Sudan and representatives of rebel leader Riek Machar reached a ceasefire agreement in Ethiopia.[163][164] The deal also stipulated that 11 officials close to rebel leader Machar should be released.[163]

Only a few days later,[165] the rebels accused that a government takeover of Leer was a deliberate attempt to sabotage the second round of talks that were to start later in February.[166] The rebels threatened to boycott the second round talks, demanding the release of four remaining political prisoners and the withdrawal of Ugandan troops.[167] Later in February, the rebels attacked the strategic government controlled Malakal[168] and the government admitted withdrawal[169] and then, in March, the rebels admitted withdrawal, changing hands for the fifth time.[170] In April, rebels claimed once again to have seized Bentiu[171] and by 19 April South Sudan's army admitted to have "lost communication" with commanders battling in Unity state.[172] The 2014 Bentiu massacre occurred on 15 April in Bentiu when more than 200 civilians, all said to have been Dinkas,[173] were massacred by Nuer rebels. A mosque, hospital, and church were targeted where civilians had sought refuge from the fighting. After the fall of Bentiu, Salva Kiir sacked Army chief James Hoth Mai and replaced him with Paul Malong Awan.[31][174]

The Greater Pibor Administrative Area (highlighted) created as part of a peace agreement between the government and the largely Murle rebel group, the Cobra Faction, in 2014

In May 2014, the government signed a peace agreement called the Greater Pibor Administrative Area peace agreement with the largely Murle group, the Cobra Faction of the South Sudan Democratic Movement, led by David Yau Yau. As part of the agreement, a semi-autonomous area called the Greater Pibor Administrative Area was created to increase the minority populations within its borders and David Yau Yau was appointed chief administrator, equivalent to state governor.[175] In February 2015, a largely Murle group, unhappy with the agreement with the government, split off from the Cobra Faction to form the Greater Pibor Forces and declared allegiance to Machar.[17] One of their disagreements with the government was the alleged provoking of the Murle to fight against anti-government Nuer groups in Jonglei.[176] In April 2016, Murle fighters in South Sudan crossed over to Gambela in Ethiopia and killed more than 200 people, stole 2000 cattle and kidnapped more than 100 children from the Nuer tribe.[177]

On 9 May 2014, President Salva Kiir and Riek Machar signed the second ceasefire in Addis Ababa, a one-page agreement recommitting to the first ceasefire.[178] Hostilities were to end in 24 hours while a permanent ceasefire would be worked on and it promised to open humanitarian corridors and allow "30 days of tranquility" so farmers can sow crops and prevent famine. Hours after the ceasefire was to be in effect, both sides accused each other of violating the ceasefire.[179] On 11 June 2014, both parties agreed to begin talks on the formation of a transitional government within 60 days and to a third ceasefire refraining from combat during this period.[180] However, the talks collapsed as both sides boycotted the talks,[181] and by 16 June, the ceasefire was reported to have been violated.[182] In August 2014, Kiir and leaders of South Sudan's neighbouring states sign a roadmap leading to a transitional government of national unity. Machar refuses to sign up, accusing leaders in the IGAD, a regional group involved in the negotiations, of tilting the process in favour of Kiir.[183] In November 2014, both parties renew the much-broken ceasefire and IGAD mediators give them 15 days to reach a power-sharing deal, threatening sanctions if they fail. This third ceasefire breaks down 24 hours later with fighting in the oil-rich north.[183] In January 2015, rival factions sign a reunification agreement in Arusha, Tanzania, but fighting continued.[183] In February 2015, Kiir and Machar signed a document on "Areas of Agreement" for a future transitional government of national unity and recommitted themselves to the ceasefire.[183] The talks later collapsed and fighting broke out in March.[184][185][186]

Arms dealers sold weapons to both sides. A series of shadowy networks emerged to sell weapons with the principal sources of arms being Egypt, Uganda, Ukraine, Israel and China. In July 2014, the Chinese arms manufacturer Norinco delivered a shipment of 95,000 assault rifles and 20 million rounds of ammunition to the government, providing enough bullets to kill every person in South Sudan twice over. Not content with the arms shipment from Norinco, the government asked if it was possible for Norinco to set up a factory in South Sudan, a request that was declined. An American arms dealer, Erik Prince, sold to the government for US$43 million three Russian-made Mi-24 attack helicopters and two L-39 jets. The aircraft were flown by Hungarian mercenaries with one of the mercenaries, Tibor Czingali, posting photographs on his Facebook account of bullet holes in his jet. In Spain, the police arrested a Franco-Polish arms dealer, Pierre Dadak, at his luxury villa in Ibiza. Documents found at the villa showed that Dadak had a contract with the rebels to sell them 40,000 AK-47 assault rifles, 30,000 PKM machine guns and 200,000 boxes of ammunition. The government's National Security Service in July 2014 signed a contract worth US$264 million with a Seychelles-based shell company to buy 50,000 AK-47s, 20 million bullets and 30 tanks. The demand for weapons had a disastrous impact on the elephant population as the rebels slaughtered elephants to sell their tusks on the black market to earn money to buy arms. In China and other east Asian nations, tusks are mistakenly believed to have medical qualities, leading to a flourishing and profitable black ivory trade market. It was reported there was a "crisis" for elephants who were decimated.[188] The number of known elephants in South Sudan declined from 2,300 in 2013 to 730 in 2016.[189] The arms-buying spree took place against the economic collapse of South Sudan. By end of 2014, South Sudan achieved the dubious honor of being ranked the number one failed state in the entire world.

Johnson Olony led a militia that planned to be integrated into the SPLM government forces, but he switched to oppose the government when the government announced plans to carve up new states which the Shilluk felt was to divide their homeland.[191] On 16 May 2015, Olony's militia and elements of the SPLM-IO captured Upper Nile's capital, Malakal, as well as Anakdiar and areas around Kodok.[192] His Shilluk militia group now called itself the 'Agwelek forces'.[20] The group said they want to run their affairs independently from others in Upper Nile State, and SPLM-IO backed away from claims that it is in charge of Olony's group and stated that Olony's interests simply coincides with theirs.[193] SPLM-IO said they understood the feeling from the Shilluk community that they wanted a level of independence and that that was the reason the SPLM-IO last year created Fashoda state for the Shilluk kingdom and appointed Tijwog Aguet, a Shilluk, as governor.[20]

On 11 August 2015, Gabriel Tang,[59] Gathoth Gatkuoth, the former SPLM-IO logistics chief, and rebel commander Peter Gadet, announced that they and other powerful commanders had split from Riek Machar, and rejected ongoing peace talks, announcing that they would now combat Riek Machar's forces in addition to government forces.[48] Gathoth Gatkuoth states he wishes for a President who is neither Dinka nor Nuer and intended to register his group as a political group called the "Federal Democractic Party" and that their forces would be called the "South Sudan National Army".[24]

Compromise Peace Agreement and second Juba clashes (2015–2016) [ edit ]

In December 2015, Kiir increased the number of states from 10 to 28 and appointed governors considered loyal to him.

In late August 2015, Salva Kiir signed a peace agreement previously signed by Riek Machar called the "Compromise Peace Agreement" mediated by IGAD +. The agreement would make Riek Machar the vice-president again.[183][194] The agreement established the Joint Monitoring and Evaluation Commission (JMEC) responsible for monitoring and overseeing implementation of the agreement. On 20 October 2015, Uganda announced that it will voluntarily withdraw its soldiers from South Sudan, in accordance to that peace agreement.[10] In January 2016, David Yau Yau dissolved the Cobra Faction of the South Sudan Democratic Movement and joined the SPLM.[195] In January Gathoth Gatkuoth joined with the government but was dismissed by his Federal Democratic Party for doing so.[196] In April 2016, as part of the peace deal, Machar returned to Juba with troops loyal to him and was sworn in as vice-president.[197]

On Christmas Eve 2015, Salva Kiir announced he was going forward with a plan to increase the number of states from 10 to 28 and then, five days later, swore in all new governors appointed by him and considered loyal to him.[191] The new borders give Kiir's Dinkas a majority in strategic locations.[191] Some observers feel that the government is holding on to the peace deal to maintain international aid while backing campaigns to increase Dinka control over land and resources traditionally held by other groups.[198] As the predominantly Shilluk Agwelek forces joined, in July 2016, with the SPLM-IO, which entered the peace agreement with the government, some Shilluk felt dissatisfied. After the establishment of the new states, a new group made up of mostly Shilluk formed the "Tiger Faction New Forces" (TFNF) in October 2015, led by General Yohanis Okiech.[199] They rejected joining the SPLM-IO or the peace agreement and called for the restoration of the original 1956 borders of the Shilluk territories.[200]

By this point, the Dinka militia leaders loyal to Kiir had grown rich by South Sudanese standards by confiscating cattle (still the main currency unit in rural areas) from the Nuer, giving them a vested interest in keeping the Nuer down. In South Sudan, ownership of cattle is closely tied to a sense of masculinity and a man who does not own cattle is not only poor, but also felt to lack manliness. Nuer men, deprived of their cattle, thirsted for revenge together with a burning desire to reclaim lost wealth, status and their sense of masculine pride, leading them to join rebel groups. Furthermore, many of the Dinka leaders, now flushed with cattle, began to push into the province of Equatoria to seize the rich farmland for their cattle herds, causing the local farmers to fight back. The British journalist Peter Martell wrote the war had started out as a conflict within the elite over control of the oil revenue, but had "evolved into anarchy, opportunism, and revenge" as the violence had acquired a momentum of its own with multiple clan leaders raising their own militias to battle over control of the cattle herds and land, struggles fought with little reference to either Kiir or Machar.

Notably, the war ceased to be an ethnic struggle, instead becoming a clan conflict as both Dinka and Nuer clans were fought each another. There were Dinka and Nuer clans professing loyalty to Kiir and Dinka and Nuer clans professing loyalty to Machar. However, these protestations of loyalty should not be taken at face value. One clan leader who raised a militia, James Koach, who was nominally loyal to Machar told Martell in 2016: "I don't care what deal they sign in Juba. The deals are with the government and where is the government? They mean nothing to us and make no difference here. They took our wives and killed our children. My family's gone, so what do I care if I live or die? They took our cows. You who come from outside don't know what that means. Our cows are everything, because without them how do we survive? They are trying to wipe us out, to remove us from the earth". By 2016, it was estimated that there were at least 20,000 child soldiers fighting in South Sudan, and many experts on the subject such as the retired Canadian General Roméo Dallaire who campaigns against the use of child soldiers warned that having so many child soldiers would have a long-term deleterious impact on South Sudan.

When Dinka cattle herders, allegedly backed by the SPLA, occupied farmland, Azande youth rose up into militias mostly with the Arrow Boys,[205] whose leader Alfred Karaba Futiyo Onyang declared allegiance to SPLM-IO[206] and claimed to have occupied parts of Western Equatoria.[207] A new rebel faction calling itself the South Sudan Federal Democratic Party (different from but related to the larger similarly named rebel faction led by Peter Gadet, Gabriel Chang and Gathoth Gatkuoth), made up mostly of Lotuko people formed during this time due to growing perceptions of mistreatment by the "Dinka" government and took over a SPLA outpost in Eastern Equatoria.[208] In February 2016, Dinka SPLA soldiers attacked a UN camp targeting Nuer and Shilluk who accused the government of annexing parts of their ancestral land.[209] About a year after the peace agreement was signed, groups of ethnic Dinka youth and the SPLA targeted members of the Fertit in Wau, killing dozens and forcing more than 120,000 to flee their homes.[210] As result, local Fertit tribal militias and groups allied with the SPLM-IO rose in rebellion, causing heavy clashes in the originally relatively peaceful Wau State, which continued for months.

Violence erupted in July 2016 after an attack outside of where President Kiir and Riek Machar were meeting in Juba. Fighting spread throughout the city. Over 300 people were killed and over 40 people were injured, including civilians.[211] In the following week, 26,000 fled to neighboring Uganda.[212] Indian Air Force evacuated Indian citizens from the country under Operation Sankat Mochan.[213] A spokesman for Riek Machar announced that South Sudan was "back to war" and that opposition forces based in areas of Juba had been attacked by forces loyal to the President.[214] Fighting involving heavy machine guns, mortars and tanks was reported in several parts of Juba on 10 July. Gun battles broke out near the airport and a UN base forcing the airport to close for safety reasons.[215] President Salva Kiir and first Vice-President Riek Machar ordered a ceasefire after days of intense violence.[216] Machar fled Juba after the clashes.

After a 48-hour ultimatum given by Kiir for Machar to return to Juba to progress with the peace agreement talks passed, the SPLA-IO in Juba appointed lead negotiator Taban Deng Gai to replace Machar and the government accepted him as acting vice-president. Machar said any talks would be illegal because Machar had previously fired Gai.[212] Machar, with assistance from the UN, went to exile, first to Kinshasa[217] then to Sudan and then to South Africa, where he was allegedly[218] kept in house arrest.[60]

After Machar's flight, Kiir sent his soldiers to rob the Central Bank of South Sudan at night, and put up $5 million US dollars stored in the central bank's vaults as a reward to anyone who could kill Machar. Kiir's spokesman admitted to what had been done, claiming it was justified under the circumstances.

Rebel infighting and splits among ruling Dinka (2016–2017) [ edit ]

Rebel soldiers of the SPLA-IO in April 2016

In September 2016, Machar announced a call for armed struggle against Kiir[219] and in November, he said SPLM-IO would not participate in a workshop organized by JMEC, saying the peace agreement needs to be revised.[220] In September, Lam Akol, leader of the largest opposition party, Democratic Change, announced a new faction called the National Democratic Movement (NDM) to overthrow Kiir.[221] Yohanis Okiech, who led the largely Shilluk Tiger Faction New Forces, which split from Uliny's Agwelek forces, joined the predominantly Shilluk NDM[222] as deputy chief of general staff.[223] In the same month, the Cobra Faction of the South Sudan Democratic Movement, now led by Khalid Boutros declared war against the government.[73]

On the international front, the African Union, after the Juba clashes, backed plans for the deployment of troops from regional nations with a strong mandate similar to that of the United Nations Force Intervention Brigade that swiftly defeated the M23 rebels in the Democratic Republic of Congo as UN troops presently within the country have struggled to protect civilians.[224] In August 2016, the UN Security Council authorized such a force for Juba. The government initially opposed the move, claiming a violation of sovereignty.[225] With a resolution threatening an arms embargo if it blocked the new deployment, the government accepted the move with conditions such as the troops not being from neighboring countries, claiming they have interests at stake.[226] They also accepted a hybrid court to investigate war crimes.[227] The US pushed for an arms embargo and sanctions on Machar and army chief Paul Malong Awan through the Security Council, but it failed to receive enough votes to pass in December 2016.[228][229] After an independent report into UNMISS's failure to protect civilians in the Juba clashes, Secretary-General Ban sacked the commander of the UN force Lt Gen Johnson Mogoa Kimani Ondieki in November[230] and then the general's native Kenya declared that it would pull out of the key role it plays in the peace process[231] and withdrew its more than 1,000 peacekeepers from UNMISS[232] before sending the troops back in with the start of the new UN secretary general's tenure.[233] On 30 April 2017, the first batch of the Regional Protection Force arrived under Brigadier General Jean Mupenzi of Rwanda[234] with the first phase of troops arriving in August.[235]

Among regional powers, Kiir met, in January 2017, with Egyptian president Abdel Fattah el-Sisi who also met with Kiir's ally Ugandan President Museveni. Egypt had previously rejected the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam that Egypt feels would diminish its share of the Nile river and Ethiopian Prime Minister, Hailemariam Desalegn had accused Egyptian institutions of supporting terrorist groups in Ethiopia.[236] SPLM-IO alleged that a "dirty deal" was struck between Kiir and Egypt against Ethiopia while Kiir denied any diplomatic row.[237] SPLM-IO accused the Egyptian Air Force of bombing their positions on 4 February 2017 while Egypt denied it.[238] As a result of Sudan's effective counterinsurgency strategy in the War in Darfur, the biggest rebel faction, the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM), retreated to South Sudan and became involved in mercenary and criminal activities according to a UN report.[239] SPLM-IO accused JEM as well as another rebel group in Sudan, SPLM-North of joining the conflict on the side of Juba.[238]

Since the July clashes, the fighting spread from the Greater Upper Nile to include the previously safe haven of Equatoria, where the bulk of SPLM-IO forces went for shelter from the clashes in Juba, located in Equatoria.[240] As Equatoria is the agricultural belt of the country, the number of people facing starvation soared to 6 million.[66] In November 2016, SPLM-IO claimed to have taken of the towns Bazi, Morobo and Kaljak.[220] While the rebels were mostly in retreat in the Upper Nile front, the rebels had gained ground on the Equatorian front where the SPLA was mostly restricted to its garrisons. This was attributed to local self-defence militias becoming increasingly integrated and the depopulation of towns resulting in the army having fewer supplies even while the rebels were already adapted to the bush.[241] However, after the fall of the main rebel headquarters of Pagak in the summer, the Southern headquarters in Lasu fell on 18 December 2017.[242] In late May, Kiir declared a unilateral ceasefire, which was taken with suspicion by others as it came after the late April government offensive that retook much territory and before the rainy season that would have anyway reduced fighting.[243] Three days after the government retook Lasu it signed another ceasefire with the rebels in December 2017.[244]

The other major front of the conflict remained the Greater Upper Nile, where government forces mostly fought John Uliny's SPLA-IO allied Agwelek forces. In a study of casualties up to April 2018, the deaths from violence peaked during this time between 2016 and 2017.[49] In October 2016, the rebels attempted to take Malakal[245] and by January 2017, fighting there had led to civilians deserting the country's second-largest city.[246] In fighting in the Bahr el Ghazal region, pro-government militia Mathiang Anyoor attacked Wau killing up to 50 civilians in April 2017.[247] In the same month, SPLA-IO captured Raja, the capital of Lol State, while state governor Hassan claimed the city was immediately retaken.[248][249] A counteroffensive by the government starting in late April 2017 reversed most rebel gains,[250] captured the capital of the Shilluk kingdom, Kodok, from Uliny[251] and closed in on Pagak, which had been the SPLA-IO headquarters since 2014.[252][253] In July 2017, SPLA along with forces loyal to Taban Deng Gai took over the rebel-held town of Maiwut.[254][255][256] The government took over Pagak in August 2017 while the IO rebels still held territory in traditional Nuer areas of Panyijar Country in Unity state and rural areas of Jonglei and Akobo state.[257] SPLA-IO forces under Machar counterattacked Taban Deng Gai's force, in an attempt to retake Pagak.[258]

An additional dimension of the conflict became the fighting between the opposition loyal to Machar and those supporting Taban Deng, largely within the Nuer majority former state of Unity.[60] Observers felt that Kiir had given up on negotiations by talking with Taban Deng instead of Machar during the peace talks, as Taban is seen by many in the opposition as a traitor.[60] As part of the "National Dialogue" initiated by Kiir in December 2016 where any former rebels who return to the capital will be given amnesty, about a dozen SPLM-IO officials defected to the government in January 2017.[259] Gabriel Tang, who was one of the generals to have defected from Machar during the peace talks in 2015, now allied with Lam Akol's largely Shilluk NDM and became its chief of staff.[260] In January 2017 Tang was killed in clashes with the SPLM-IO allied Agwelek forces led by John Uliny, a move the SPLM-IO proclaimed as a warning to rival rebel factions.[59] Two days later, Olony's forces ambushed and killed Yohanis Okiech, destroying the Tiger Faction New Forces.[261]

General Thomas Cirillo of the National Salvation Front (NAS)

In February 2017, Deputy head of logistics Lt. Gen. Thomas Cirillo Swaka resigned, accusing Kiir of ethnic bias. This led to a series of high ranking resignations, including minister of Labour Lt. Gen. Gabriel Duop Lam[262] who also pledged allegiance to Machar. Swaka formed a new rebel group called the National Salvation Front (NAS) in March 2017.[263] In March 2017, Cirillo, a Bari from Equatoria, got additional support as SPLM-IO's Western Bahr al Ghazal commander, Faiz Ismail Futur, resigned to joined NAS while there are reports of six SPLM-IO shadow governors from Equatoria defecting to NAS.[264] In the same month, head of the Cobra Faction Khalid Boutros dissolved the Cobra Faction and merged it with Gen. Thomas Cirillo's NAS and claimed opposition groups are in consultation to unite their ranks.[265] In July 2017, John Kenyi Loburon, SPLA-IO's commander of Central Equatoria state switched to join NAS,[266] claiming favoritism towards Nuers in SPLA-IO and then as NAS general in the same month, fought with SPLA-IO in Central Equatoria in the first clashes between the two groups.[267] By November 2017, NAS captured areas in Kajo Keji from SPLM-IO, before both groups were routed by the government.[268][269] With broad support at its inception, by 2018, many had come to view NAS as simply "the Bari".[270]

Paul Malong Awan, former SPLA army chief, rebelled against the government in April 2018

Cracks were appearing along clan lines among the ruling Dinka. Kiir's Dinka of Warrap were in a feud with the Dinka of Paul Malong Awan's Aweil, who contributed the bulk of the government's fighting force in the war.[269] Around this time, the largely Dinka South Sudan Patriotic Army (SSPA) was formed in Northern Bahr el Ghazal, with the backing of powerful figures such as former presidential advisor Costello Garang Ring[271] and allegedly Malong Awan. In May 2017, Kiir reduced the power of the chief of staff position[272] and fired its powerful Dinka nationalist Malong Awan and replaced him with General James Ajongo Mawut, who is not a Dinka but a Luo.[273] Awan left Juba with most of his Mathiang Anyoor militia[274] while other militia members reportedly joined SSPA. By the end of 2017, SSPA had claimed to have captured territory around Aweil[61] and was seen as one of the biggest threats to Juba.[275] Awan was accused of plotting a rebellion and was detained but then released following pressure from the Dinka lobbying group, the Dinka Council of Elders.[276] SPLM-IO rebels who were loyal to Malong Awan raided Juba in January 2018.[277] In April of that year, Awan announced the launch of a rebel group named South Sudan United Front (SS-UF), which claimed to push for federalism.[278]

2018 peace agreement (2018–2020) [ edit ]

By March 2018, nine opposition groups, including NAS, NDM of Lam Akol, FDP of Gabriel Chang, SSPA of Costello Ring and SSLM but notably not including SPLM-IO, had joined to form the South Sudan Opposition Alliance (SSOA) to collectively negotiate with the government.[279]

The United States put additional pressure on Juba by successfully passing an arms embargo on South Sudan in July 2018 through UN Security Council, following a 2016 failure, with Russia and China abstaining from voting this time.[280] Additionally, with neighboring Sudan facing economic troubles and relying on revenue from transporting oil from South Sudan, the Sudanese government, with a mix of incentives and coercion,[281] brought Kiir and SPLA-IO to hold talks in Khartoum. In June 2018, they signed another ceasefire where they agreed to form a transitional government for the 36 months leading to national elections and to African Union and IGAD peacekeepers to deploy to South Sudan and state boundaries would be drawn by commission chaired by a non-South Sudanese;[282][283] this ceasefire was violated just a few hours after coming into effect, when pro-government forces attacked rebels in Wau State.[284] SPLM-IO protested when the Parliament, where the President's party holds a majority of seats, extended the President's term and that of other officials by three years.[285] However, they eventually agreed to share power in what was called the "Revitalised transitional government of national unity (R-TGoNU)"[286] with Machar again to be one of five Vice Presidents[287] and the 550 seat parliament to be divided with 332 going to Kiir's faction, 128 to Machar's group and the rest to other groups.[62] An SSOA faction led by NAS's Thomas Cirillo[288] rejected the deal citing their small share in the power sharing agreement.[289] As part of amnesty offered to groups following the peace deal, in August 2018, Brigadier General Chan Garang, claiming to lead a group of rebel soldiers from Malong's SS-UF, came back to the government along with 300 rebel soldiers in what was seen as a weakening of SS-UF.[290] In September 2018, South Sudan's President Salva Kiir signed a peace deal with main rebel leader Riek Machar formally ending a five-year civil war. Celebrations in Juba happened on 31 October 2018;[291][292] however, there were criticisms of the peace deal that it failed to address the underlying issues of the conflict—the concentration of power in the hands of the president[293]—and that the status quo will continue to produce violence.[294] As part of the agreement, Machar was supposed to return to Juba in May to become vice president again, citing security concerns, and asked for an extension of six months, which was accepted by Kiir.[295] Six months later, both sides agreed to delay the formation of a transitional unity government by 100 days.[296] The most contentious issue delaying the formation of the unity government was whether South Sudan should keep 32 or return to 10 states. On 14 February 2020, Kiir announced South Sudan would return to 10 states in addition to three administrative areas of Abyei, Pibor and Ruweng,[297][298] and on 22 February Riek Machar was sworn in as first vice president for the creation of the unity government.[299] The dissolution of parliament in order to bring a new parliament that shares power with the rebel groups, as called for by the 2018 peace deal, occurred in May 2021 after much delay.[300]

NAS became the main antagonist of the government, clashing with the government in the Central and Western part of Equatorial province starting in January 2019, leading to about 8,000 people fleeing Yei State.[301] NAS and FDP also alleged being attacked by SPLM-IO in Upper Nile State.[302] The government continued to import arms.[303] In August 2019, three rebel groups who were not signed up to the peace agreement—that of Cirillo's, whose rebel group was now known as South Sudan National Democratic Alliance (SSNDA), SS-UF of Paul Malong and the Real Sudan People's Liberation Movement (R- SPLM) of Pagan Amum, resolved to unite their activities under "United South Sudanese Opposition Movements" (SSOMA).[304] In January 2020, the Community of Sant'Egidio mediated a Rome Peace Declaration between the SSOMA and the South Sudanese government.[305]

Disarmament campaigns led by the government has led to resistance, with clashes killing more than 100 people in two days in north-central Tonj in August 2020.[306] Localized inter-ethnic conflict reduced during the civil war but escalated in the last few years as it is argued political elites bound by the deal have instead channelled weapons to community militias as a proxy war while others argue the power vacuum caused by the change in number of states led to violence.[307] While cattle raiding has been going on for years, some residents stated militias are targeting civilians more such as one attack that killed 287 people in Uror County in May 2020.[308]

In August 2021, Machar was deposed as head of the SPLM-IO and its chief of staff, First Lieutenant Simon Gatwech Dual was declared interim leader.[309] Later in the month, clashes between forces loyal to Machar and Dual led to both sides reporting dozens of deaths.[310]

Atrocities [ edit ]

Attacks on civilian centers [ edit ]

A civilian casualty of the 2016 Juba clashes is carried to a makeshift grave.

The government was accused by the US and aid groups among others of using starvation as a tactic of collective punishment for populations that support rebels by intentionally blocking aid.[311]

Ateny Wek Ateny, president's spokesman told to news conference, claimed that rebel troops went into the hospital in the town of Bor and slaughtered 126 out of 127 patients. Apparently an elderly man was blind and rebels spared him.[312] On 31 January 2014 in violation of the cease fire agreement, the signed Government troops attacked town of Leer in Unity State, forcing 240 Staff and patients of Doctors Without Borders in Leer to flee into the bush. Thousands of civilians fled to the bush. Doctors Without Borders lost contact with two thirds of its staff formerly located in Leer.[313][314] It is believed that the town was attacked by government troops as it is the home of former Vice President Riek Machar.[315] On 18 April, UN said that at least 58 people were killed and more than 100 others wounded in an attack against one of its bases in South Sudan sheltering thousands of civilians.[316] On 17 April 2014, 58 people were killed in an attack on the UN base in Bor.[317][318][319][320] Forty-eight of those killed were civilians, while 10 were among the attackers.[319] UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon emphasised that any attack on UN peacekeepers constituted "a war crime",[317] while the UN Security Council expressed "outrage" at the attack.[321][322] In late 2016, in a government attack on Yei, three villages were destroyed with 3,000 homes burned in a single village.[323]

Ethnic cleansing [ edit ]

There were ethnic undertones to the conflict with the SPLM and SPLA, which has been accused of being dominated by the Dinka. A Dinka lobbying group known as the "Jieng Council of Elders" was often accused of being behind hardline SPLM policies.[324][325] While the army used to attract men from across tribes, during the war, the SPLA had largely constituted soldiers from the Dinka stronghold of Bahr el Ghazal,[326] and the army was often referred to within the country as "the Dinka army".[327] Much of the worst atrocities committed are blamed on a group known as "Dot Ke Beny" (Rescue the President) or "Mathiang Anyoor" (brown caterpillar), while the SPLA claim that it is just another battalion.[327][328] Immediately after the alleged coup in 2013, Dinka troops, and particularly Mathiang Anyoor,[328][329] were accused of carrying out pogroms, assisted by guides, in house to house searches of Nuer suburbs,[330] while similar door to door searches of Nuers were reported in government held Malakal.[331] About 240 Nuer men were killed at a police station in Juba's Gudele neighborhood.[332][333] During the fighting in 2016–17 in the Upper Nile region between the SPLA and the SPLA-IO allied Upper Nile faction of Uliny, Shilluk in Wau Shilluk were forced from their homes and Yasmin Sooka, chairwoman of the Commission on Human Rights in South Sudan, claimed that the government was engaging in "social engineering" after it transported 2,000 mostly Dinka people to the abandoned areas.[334] The king of the Shilluk Kingdom, Kwongo Dak Padiet, claimed his people were at risk of physical and cultural extinction.[335] In the Equatoria region, Dinka soldiers were accused of targeting civilians on ethnic lines against the dozens of ethnic groups among the Equatorians, with much of the atrocities being blamed on Mathiang Anyoor.[327] Adama Dieng, the U.N.'s Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide, warned of genocide after visiting areas of fighting in Yei.[336] Khalid Boutros of the Cobra faction as well as officials of the Murle-led Boma State accuse the SPLA of aiding attacks by Dinka from Jonglei state against Boma state,[265][337] and soldiers from Jonglei captured Kotchar in Boma in 2017.[338]

The SPLM-IO is predominantly Nuer and its head, Machar, had previously committed the Bor massacre of mostly Dinka civilians in 1991. In 2014, the Bentiu massacre occurred when Bentiu was recaptured by rebels April 2014 and 200 people were killed in a mosque. Rebels separated the people and picked out those from opposing ethnic groups who they then executed.[339]

Child soldiers [ edit ]

Since the conflict began, more than 17,000 children were used in the conflict, with 1,300 recruited in 2016.[340]

Sexual violence [ edit ]

Reported incidents of sexual violence rose 60% in 2016, with Mundri in Equatoria's Amadi State being called the epicenter of the problem.[341] A UN survey found that 70% of women who were sheltering in camps had been raped since the beginning of the conflict, with the vast majority of rapists being police and soldiers,[342] and that 80% had witnessed someone else getting sexually assaulted.[343] The SPLA were reported to have recruited militias and young men in Unity state to take back rebel-held areas. They were given guns and their pay was what they could loot and rape the women they captured.[344] Martell described the rampant sexual violence as not incidental to the war, but an integral and central part of the strategies of both sides, as "a tool for ethnic cleansing, as a means of humiliation and revenge". Nor were foreign aid workers safe, with gunmen belonging to Kiir's Tiger Force stormed an UN relief camp at the Terrain Hotel on 11 July 2016, killed the journalist John Gatluak for being a Nuer, and proceeded to gang-rape five foreign aid workers as a "punishment" for foreign criticism of Kiir. The UN peacekeepers from China who were supposed to be guarding the Terrain Hotel camp did nothing, despite being only a three-minute walk away from the hotel. The UN's Special Envoy for Sexual Violence, Zainab Bangura, reported that nowhere in the entire world had she had ever seen a place with worse sexual violence than South Sudan. The same study also reported that rape was not only common against women and children, but also against men as well, through the reluctance of men to admit that they had been raped made it difficult to place a precise number on the cases of male rape.

Violence against UN and foreign workers [ edit ]

It has been argued that with increased tension with the UN and outside powers over the government's actions there was a new shift in violence by the government against foreign peacekeepers, aid workers and diplomats.[348] NGOs are viewed with suspicion, with the Minister of Cabinet Affairs claiming "most of the [humanitarian] agencies are here to spy on the government."[349] During the 2016 Juba clashes, 80 to 100 South Sudanese troops entered the Terrain hotel facility and gang raped five international aid workers, with nearby peacekeepers from China refusing to help the victims.[348][350] In July, soldiers ransacked a World Food Programme warehouse, stealing enough food to feed 220,000 people for a month, worth about $30 million.[348] In July, a rocket-propelled grenade was fired near a UN peacekeepers' vehicle with two Chinese peacekeepers dying after the government refused passage to a clinic sixteen kilometres (10 mi) away.[348] In December 2016, two staff members of the Norwegian Refugee Council were expelled from the country without a formal explanation.[351] In the deadliest attack on aid workers, six aid workers were killed in an ambush on 25 March 2017 bringing the number of aid workers killed since the start of the war to at least 79.[352]

Violence came from the rebel side as well. On 26 August 2014, a UN Mi-8 cargo helicopter was shot down, killing three Russian crew members, and wounding another. This occurred nine days after rebel commander Peter Gadet threatened to shoot down UN aircraft, which he alleged were transporting government forces.[353]

Casualties [ edit ]

Mortality [ edit ]

During the first two days of fighting after 15 December, reports indicated that 66 soldiers had been killed in clashes in Juba,[354][355][356] and at least 800 injured.[357] By 23 December, the number of dead had likely surpassed 1,000 people[103][358] while an aid worker in the country estimated that the death toll was most likely in the tens of thousands.[33] The International Crisis Group reported on 9 January 2014 that up to 10,000 people were estimated to have died. In November 2014, the International Crisis Group estimated the death toll could be between 50,000 and 100,000.[359] A senior SPLA officer stated in November 2014 that the number of government soldiers killed and wounded topped 20,000, with 10,659 soldiers killed from January to October 2014 and 9,921 seriously wounded, according to a report by Radio Tamazuj.[360] By March 2016, after more than two years of fighting, some aid workers and officials who did not want to speak on the record said the true figure might be as high as 300,000.[361] A study by the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine of deaths leading up to April 2018, reported that about 383,000 people are conservatively[65] estimated to have died as a result of the war, while the actual may be considerably higher, with 190,000 deaths directly attributed to violence and most of the deaths in Jonglei, Unity and Equatoria.[49]

Two Indian UN peacekeepers were killed on 18 December when their base was stormed by rebels, and three US military Osprey aircraft were fired upon leading to four American service personnel being wounded.[362] On 21 January 2014 Ankunda said that 9 Ugandan soldiers died in a rebel ambush at Gemeza a week before, and 12 others had been killed in total since 23 December.[47]

South Sudanese made up the largest contingent among the Refugee Olympic Team, who competed under the Olympic Flag (above).

Displaced people [ edit ]

Map showing the displacement of South Sudanese civilians due to the civil war as of March 2017

More than 4 million people have been displaced, with about 1.8 million internally displaced and about 2.5 million having fled to neighboring countries, especially Kenya, Sudan, and Uganda.[65] This makes it the world's third-largest refugee population after Syria and Afghanistan. About 86% of the refugees are women and children.[363] Uganda, which took more refugees in 2016 than all of those who crossed the Mediterranean into Europe,[364] has had a notably generous policy. Refugees are allowed to work and travel and families get a 30-metre by 30-metre plot of land to build a home with additional space for farming. In just six months since being built, the Bidi Bidi Refugee Settlement in Uganda became the single largest refugee settlement on earth.[365] However, the Ugandan government is seen as an ally of Kiir's crackdown on rebels, although with an increasing refugee population, Uganda has pressured Kiir to make peace.[366] The largest contingent of the Refugee Olympic Team at the 2016 Summer Olympics came from South Sudan, including its flag bearer.

Starvation [ edit ]

January 2017 map with phase classifications from "minimal" to "famine"

After the second Juba clashes, fighting intensified in the Equatoria region. As this is the agricultural heart of the country, the number of people facing starvation in the already food insecure nation soared to 6 million.[66] In February 2017, famine was declared in Unity state by the government and the United Nations, the first declaration of famine anywhere in the world in six years.[67] Days after the declaration of famine, the government raised the price of a business visa from $100 to $10,000, mostly aimed at aid workers, citing a need to increase government revenue.[349]

In late 2020, with continued fighting and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic as well as massive flooding, a report by international food security experts reported that five counties are on the brink of starvation and one county, Western Pibor, is in likely famine, meaning that at least 20% of households are facing extreme food gaps and at least 30% of children are acutely malnourished.[367] In 2021, a "famine likely" announcement was made as not enough information was available to give a definite declaration of famine.[368]

Participants [ edit ]

Government allied [ edit ]

Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA)

Sudan People's Liberation Army (SPLA) South Sudan Liberation Movement (SSLM) – While the war was often viewed as a conflict between the Dinka-dominated government and other ethnicities, the Nuer-dominated SSLM allied with the government and helped take back Bentiu from the Nuer-dominated SPLM-IO in 2013.

Rebel groups [ edit ]

SPLM-IO

SPLM-IO Nuer White Army – The Nuer White Army is a militant Nuer organization originally formed to defend Nuer cattle herds and for cattle rustling particularly against the Murle people. During the Second Sudanese Civil War, they joined the breakaway faction of the SPLM led by Riek Machar and during the South Sudanese Civil War, once again joined on the side of Riek Machar's SPLA-IO

External powers [ edit ]

UNMISS

UNMISS Uganda under President Yoweri Museveni sent troops to South Sudan on the side of the government and in 2014 helped retake all the cities captured by the rebels. As part of the Compromise Peace Agreement in 2015, Uganda agreed to withdraw its troops.

See also [ edit ]

Notes [ edit ]

^ [5] have however affirmed that JEM is taking part in conflict on the side of the South Sudanese government. The SPLM-IO accused JEM of supporting Kiir's government since 2013, though JEM has denied any involvement and claims to maintain neutrality in the South Sudanese Civil War. The Sudanese government, aid workers and other sourceshave however affirmed that JEM is taking part in conflict on the side of the South Sudanese government. ^ [16][17][18] In September 2016, however, the Cobra Faction was declared restored by some of its commanders and declared that it had resumed its struggle against the government.[19] The Cobra Faction openly opposed the government until 2014, and remained in relative opposition until 2015, when it divided into a pro-government and pro-SPLM-IO faction, the latter of which formed the Greater Pibor Forces. In early 2016, the Cobra Faction effectively disbanded, when the remaining group joined the government.In September 2016, however, the Cobra Faction was declared restored by some of its commanders and declared that it had resumed its struggle against the government. ^ [16][17] Zangil served as commander of the SSDM/A – Cobra Faction since 2013 until he deserted with much of his troops to the SPLM-IO in 2015, forming the "Greater Pibor Forces". ^ [16][18][34] Yau Yau led the SSDM/A – Cobra Faction in open opposition to the SPLM government until 2014, and in relatively peaceful autonomy until 2015, when much of his forces deserted to the SPLM-IO . In 2016, he and his remaining loyalists joined the SPLM.

References [ edit ]

-----------------------------------

South Sudan: From Independence to Civil WarTen years after gaining independence from Khartoum, South Sudan is failing. A 2018 peace agreement has reduced fighting between the main warring parties in a country devastated by civil war and led to the formation of a unity government in 2020. But an insurgency continues unabated in the southern part of the country, and localised violence is rampant in much of the rest. Most provisions of the peace deal – like the unification of rebel and government forces into the national army – have not been implemented, while the ethno-political tensions that lie at the heart of the conflict are still running high.

Starting with Sudan’s independence from Britain and Egypt, and going through South Sudan’s independence referendum and the start of the new country’s civil war in 2013, this timeline tracks the events that have led to the current quagmire.

-----------------------------------

South Sudan Chronology of Events : Security Council ReportSouth Sudan

July 2013

On 8 July, the Council held a briefing and consultations on the most recent report on UNMISS. Hilde Johnson, Special Representative of the Secretary-General and head of UNMISS, provided the briefing. On 11 July, the Council adopted resolution 2109, extending the mandate of UNMISS until 15 July 2014 July 2013OctobOctobNoJanuary March

May 2022

On 26 May 2022, the Security Council adopted resolution 2633 renewing the South Sudan sanctions regime until 1 July 2023 by a vote of 10 in favour and five abstentions (China, Gabon, India, Kenya, and Russia).

March 2022

Council members were briefed on South Sudan on 7 March 2022. Special Representative and head of UNMISS Nicolas Haysom briefed the Council on the 90-day report of the Secretary-General. Major General (Retired) Charles Tai Gituai, Interim Chairperson of the reconstituted Joint Monitoring and Evaluation Commission of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), and Riya Williams Yuyada, a civil society representative, also briefed. On 15 March, the Council adopted resolution 2625, extending the mandate of UNMISS for one year, with 13 votes in favour. China and Russia abstained.

December 2021

The Council was briefed on 15 December 2021, by Special Representative and head of the UNMISS Nicolas Haysom. A representative of the Permanent Mission of Viet Nam to the UN, the chair of the 2206 South Sudan Sanctions Committee, briefed on the committee’s work. Consultations followed the briefing.

September 2021

The Council was briefed on South Sudan on 15 September 2021 by Special Representative and head of UNMISS Nicholas Haysom, OCHA’s Director for Operations and Advocacy Reena Ghelani, and a representative of civil society, Merekaje Lorna Nanjia. Haysom expressed concern over the increase in subnational violence, the proliferation of weapons, increasing restrictions in civic space, a deteriorating humanitarian situation, and rising attacks on aid workers.

June 2021

Council members were briefed on South Sudan on 21 June 2021 by Special Representative and head of UNMISS Nicholas Haysom for the first time since he took up the role in April. Haysom highlighted “the pervasive insecurity, in particular intercommunal violence” and noted that the mission “intends to enhance collaboration and promote greater coherence among international partners”, including IGAD and the AU. Rajab Mohandis, executive director and co-founder of the Organization for Responsive Governance, also briefed as a member of civil society. He emphasised that leadership “has been grossly lacking in South Sudan since the country became independent and, as it stands now, there is no clarity as to where the country is heading”.

May 2021

On 28 May 2021, the Council adopted resolution 2577 which renewed the South Sudan sanctions regime for one year—including targeted sanctions and the arms embargo—and the mandate of the South Sudan Sanctions Committee’s Panel of Experts. Kenya and India abstained. The resolution contained five benchmarks for the review of the arms embargo, namely completion of the Strategic Defense and Security Review process contained in the R-ARCSS; formation of the Necessary Unified Forces; progress on the establishment and implementation of the disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration process; progress on properly managing existing arms and ammunition stockpiles and implementation of the Joint Action Plan for the Armed Forces on addressing conflict-related sexual violence.

March 2021

Council members were briefed on South Sudan on 3 March 2021 by David Shearer, the outgoing Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Head of the UN Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS), on the Secretary-General’s 90-day report dated 23 February. Shearer raised concern over a power vacuum at the local level, which has presented opportunities for spoilers and national actors to exploit local tensions and fuel violence. Jackline Nasiwa, Founder and National Director, Centre for Inclusive Governance, Peace and Justice, briefed as a member of civil society based in South Sudan. On 12 March, the Council unanimously adopted resolution 2567, renewing the mandate of the UN Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS) for one year. The resolution maintained the overall ceilings of 17,000 troops and 2,101 police personnel. It contained a new paragraph deciding that UNMISS will advance a three-year strategic vision to prevent a return to civil war, build durable peace, and support elections. It also called on the government of South Sudan and all relevant actors to fulfil a series of priority measures before the end of UNMISS’s mandate in March. These included providing security to re-designated protection of civilian sites, the graduation and deployment of the Necessary Unified Forces, and signing a Memorandum of Understanding with the AU to establish the Hybrid Court for South Sudan, as agreed under Chapter 5 of the R-ARCSS.

December 2020

Council members were briefed on South Sudan on 15 December 2020 in an open videoconference (VTC), followed by a closed VTC. The briefers were Special Representative and head of UNMISS David Shearer and Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs Mark Lowcock. On 15 December 2020, Ambassador Dang Dinh Quy (Viet Nam), chair of the 2206 South Sudan Sanctions Committee, briefed the Council on South Sudan sanctions. On 15 December 2020, the Council received the independent strategic review of UNMISS, requested in resolution 2514

September 2020

On 16 September, Council members held an open VTC, followed by a closed VTC, to discuss UNMISS (S/2020/914). The briefers were Nyachangkuouth Ramban Tai, representing the civil society organisation Assistance Mission for Africa, and Special Representative and head of UNMISS David J. Shearer. Ramban Tai spoke about intercommunal violence in South Sudan and emphasised the Security Council’s protection of civilians role. Shearer described delays in security sector reform and in reconstituting the Transitional National Legislative Assembly in South Sudan.

July 2020

On 13 July, the Security Council issued a press statement welcoming developments in South Sudan’s peace process, including the agreement between the parties to the Revitalised Agreement on the allocation of states’ leadership positions and the announcement of governors. It also called on the Revitalised Transitional Government of National Unity to end delays in the implementation of the Revitalised Agreement and urged the parties to finalise security arrangements, establish transitional government institutions and to make progress on transitional reforms. It expressed concern about increased violence between armed groups in South Sudan in recent months and called on the parties to work toward preventing such violence. The press statement briefly addressed issues such as South Sudan’s efforts to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, the dire humanitarian situation and cooperation between South Sudanese authorities and humanitarian agencies, and the role of IGAD, while calling on the South Sudanese government to ensure UNMISS’ freedom of movement.

June 2020

On 23 June, Council members held an open VTC, followed by a closed VTC, on South Sudan (S/2020/582) covering the Secretary-General’s latest report on this issue (S/2020/536). David Shearer, the Special Representative of the Secretary-General and head of UNMISS, and Edmund Yakani, Executive Director of the Community Empowerment for Progress Organization, briefed.

May 2020

On 29 May 2020, the Council adopted resolution 2521, renewing the South Sudan sanctions regime until 31 May and the mandate of the Panel of Experts until 1 July. China, Russia and South Africa abstained. The Council expressed its intention to carry out a midterm review of the sanctions measures by 15 December 2020 and “its readiness to consider adjusting [these] measures…including through modifying, suspending, lifting or strengthening measures to respond to the situation”. The resolution also requested the Secretariat to provide the Council with a report assessing the role of the arms embargo in facilitating implementation of the R-ARCSS and articulating options for the elaboration of benchmarks, which the Council received on 31 October 2020.

March 2020

On 4 March, the Council was briefed by David Shearer, Special Representative of the Secretary-General and head of UNMISS, on the Secretary-General’s 90-day report. Shearer reported on several positive developments in the country and said that UNMISS had stepped up its protective presence to build confidence in areas of return. Betty Sunday, Coordinator of the Women’s Monthly Forum on the Peace and Political Process in South Sudan, briefed the Council as a civil society representative by video-teleconference from Juba. The briefing was followed by consultations. Also on 4 March, Council members issued a press statement that welcomed the formation of a Revitalised Transitional Government of National Unity. On 12 March, the Security Council unanimously adopted resolution 2514 renewing the mandate of UNMISS until 15 March 2021. The resolution maintains the overall force levels at their mandated ceilings of 17,000 troops and 2,101 police personnel. The four core elements of the mandate remain largely unchanged, namely protecting civilians, creating the conditions conducive to the delivery of humanitarian assistance, supporting the peace process, and monitoring and investigating human rights.

December 2019

On 17 December, the Council was briefed on the Secretary-General’s 90-day report on South Sudan by Special Representative for South Sudan and head of UNMISS David Shearer. Ambassador Joanna Wronecka (Poland), chair of the 2206 South Sudan Sanctions Committee, also briefed. Consultations followed the briefing.

October 2019

On 8 October, the Security Council adopted a presidential statement on the implementation of the Revitalized Agreement on the Resolution of the Conflict in South Sudan (R-ARCSS) of 12 September 2018. The statement welcomed initial progress implementing the R-ARCSS and called on the parties to expedite the process of implementing transitional security arrangements and to continue consultation on the issue of the number and boundaries of states.

September 2019

On 18 September, Special Representative for South Sudan and head of UNMISS David Shearer briefed the Security Council on the Secretary-General’s 90-day report on the situation in South Sudan and the Secretary-General’s report on “future planning for the protection of civilians sites” in South Sudan, as requested in resolution 2459. Consultations followed the briefing. “The peace process remains precarious, but progress is being made,” Shearer said, emphasising that progress depends on sustained goodwill between the parties and the attention of international partners, including the Intergovernmental Authority on Development and the AU.

June 2019

On 25 June, Special Representative and head of UNMISS David Shearer briefed the Council on UNMISS and the 90-day report of the Secretary-General. Assistant Secretary-General for Human Rights Andrew Gilmour and civil society representative Lydia Minagano (via video teleconference from Juba, South Sudan) also briefed. The briefing was followed by consultations.

March 2019

On 8 March, the Council received a briefing from Special Representative and head of UNMISS David Shearer. A civil society representative based in South Sudan also briefed. Council members held consultations following the briefing. On 15 March, the Council adopted resolution 2459 renewing the mandate of UNMISS for an additional year, by 14 votes in favour with Russia abstaining. The resolution maintains the troop ceiling of 17,000 troops. Language was added specifying that “advice or technical assistance, within existing resources” can be a part of the mission’s good offices efforts to support the peace process and also calling on the mission to “support the facilitation of the safe, informed, voluntary, and dignified return or relocation of IDPs from United Nations protection of civilian sites”. Following the vote, statements were made by China, Kuwait, Russia and the US.

December 2018

On 7 December, the Council issued a press statement condemning “the heinous incidents of sexual and gender-based violence against women near Bentiu in northern South Sudan” and calling for accountability. The statement also reiterated the Council’s willingness to impose targeted sanctions against individuals or entities responsible and called for the establishment of the Hybrid Court for South Sudan. On 18 December, the Council received a briefing from Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Jean-Pierre Lacroix on the Secretary-General’s 90-day report on South Sudan. Also briefed Special Representative on Sexual Violence in Conflict Pramila Patten also briefed (via video teleconference) and Ambassador Joanna Wronecka (Poland), the chair of the 2206 South Sudan Sanctions Committee. On 21 December 2018, the Council issued a press statement that strongly condemned the assault, detention and abuse of the Ceasefire and Transitional Security Arrangements Monitoring and Verification Mechanism team by government officials on 18 December 2018 in Luri, South Sudan and called on the government to investigate the incident immediately and hold those responsible accountable.

November 2018

On 16 November, the Council was briefed on South Sudan by Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Jean-Pierre Lacroix, AU Commissioner for Peace and Security Smaïl Chergui (via video teleconference) and Executive Director of UN Women Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka who reported on their joint visit to South Sudan from 7 to 9 October. The joint visit focused on promoting women’s meaningful participation and leadership in the implementation of the Revitalized Agreement on the Resolution of the Conflict in South Sudan as well as the role of the AU and the UN in supporting the agreement.

September 2018

On 18 September, the Council was briefed by Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Jean-Pierre Lacroix on the Secretary-General’s 90-day report. Lacroix reported that the international community must send a strong message to the parties in conflict that with the new peace agreement signed, there is no longer any justification for continued clashes. Special Envoy for Sudan and South Sudan Nicholas Haysom and the Intergovernmental Authority on Development Special Envoy for South Sudan Ismail Wais also briefed. A civil society representative based in South Sudan briefed via video teleconference.

August 2018

On 10 August, Security Council members held consultations on South Sudan, focusing on food security and developments in the peace process. Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs Mark Lowcock, Special Envoy for Sudan and South Sudan Nicholas Haysom, and Special Representative and head of UNMISS David Shearer briefed during the consultations. Following this, Council members issued press elements expressing “grave concern about the level of food insecurity”, with the ongoing conflict “being one of the main direct causes” and demanding that all parties allow unhindered humanitarian access. The press elements also welcomed the region’s role in reaching agreement on outstanding governance and security issues but noted that “considerable challenges remain”, including the need for detailed plans for implementation. In addition, they called for immediate implementation of the ceasefire and for the parties to demonstrate commitment to fully implement and finalise a more inclusive and revitalised ARCSS. On 20 August, the Secretary-General appointed five members of the Sanctions Committee’s Panel of Experts until 1 July 2019. On 27 August, committee chair Ambassador Joanna Wronecka (Poland) and the coordinator of the Panel of Experts briefed the committee on their respective reports following their visit to South Sudan, Ethiopia, Uganda and Kenya from 16 to 26 June.

July 2018

On 5 July, Council members were briefed in consultations by Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Jean-Pierre Lacroix on the Secretary-General’s assessment of the security and political situation in South Sudan, requested by resolution 2418. On 13 July, the Council adopted resolution 2428, imposing an arms embargo on South Sudan until 31 May 2019 and designating two additional individuals to be subject to targeted sanctions: Paul Malong Awan, the former chief of staff of South Sudan’s army who became a rebel leader, and Malek Reuben Riak, former deputy chief of general staff of South Sudan’s army. The resolution, adopted with nine votes in favour and six abstentions (Bolivia, China, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Kazakhstan and Russia) also renewed the South Sudan sanctions regime until 31 May 2019 and the Sanctions Committee’s Panel of Experts until 1 July 2019. On 26 July, Special Representative on Sexual Violence in Conflict Pramila Patten briefed the Council under “any other business” on her trip to South Sudan earlier that month.

June 2018

On 28 June, the Security Council was briefed by Assistant Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Bintou Keita on the Secretary-General’s 90-day report (S/2018/609). Keita said regional engagement and the face-to-face meetings between President Salva Kiir and Riek Machar are positive developments, while cautioning that peace would not be achieved or sustained merely on the basis of a deal between the two leaders. She emphasized that the Council must give its constant support and engagement to ensure that all stakeholders understood that the international community would support a peaceful South Sudan, and that there would be consequences for those who kept fuelling the conflict.

May 2018

On 8 May, the Council was briefed on South Sudan by Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Jean-Pierre Lacroix; IGAD Special Envoy for South Sudan Ismail Wais (via video teleconference); and a civil society representative based in Juba, Jackline Nasiwa (also via video teleconference). Ambassador Joanna Wronecka of Poland, chair of the South Sudan Sanctions Committee, briefed on the committee’s work. On 31 May, the Council adopted a resolution (S/RES/2418) that renewed the sanctions regime and mandate of the Panel of Experts until 15 July 2018. It also requested the Secretary-General to report by 30 June whether any fighting has taken place since adoption of the resolution and to report on whether the parties have come to a viable political agreement. It decides that if the Secretary-General reports such fighting or lack of a viable political agreement, it shall consider applying targeted sanctions to the six individuals identified in Annex 1 and/or an arms embargo within five days of the Secretary-General’s report. The resolution was adopted with nine votes in favour and six abstentions (Bolivia, China, Ethiopia, Equatorial Guinea, Kazakhstan and Russia).

March 2018

On 15 March, UNMISS’ mandate was unanimously extended for one year (S/RES/2406). The Council decided to maintain the overall force levels of a maximum of 17,000 troops, which includes a Regional Protection Force (RPF) at levels to be set by the Secretary-General but not exceeding 4,000, and no more than 2,101 police personnel. The resolution also expresses the Council’s intention to “consider all measures, including an arms embargo, as appropriate, to deprive the parties of the means to continue fighting and to prevent violations” of the 21 December 2017 Cessation of Hostilities Agreement.

February 2018

On 27 February, the Council received a briefing on the special report of the Secretary-General on the renewal of UNMISS’ mandate and the findings on the independent review from Assistant Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Bintou Keita who said the current UNMISS mandate remains valid and should be extended for another year, with some modifications. IGAD Special Envoy for South Sudan Ismail Wais also briefed. Special Representative for South Sudan and head of the UN Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS) David Shearer and Special Envoy for Sudan and South Sudan Nicholas Haysom briefed during consultations.

January 2018

On 24 January, the Council was briefed on South Sudan by Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Jean-Pierre Lacroix who urged members to speak out clearly against violations of the 21 December 2017 cessation of hostilities agreement and “to take the decisive actions necessary to impose real consequences.” JMEC Chairperson Festus Mogae briefed (via VTC) and said that three signatories had so far violated the agreement; he similarly urged the Council to impose consequences. Assistant Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs Ursula Mueller also briefed and said civilians continue to be killed and forcibly displaced, with several thousand people fleeing to Ethiopia and Uganda in January. Humanitarian access remains highly complex and unpredictable despite President Salva Kiir’s decree of 9 November 2017, which ordered free, unimpeded and unhindered movement for humanitarian aid convoys, she said.

December 2017

On 7 December, Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Jean-Pierre Lacroix briefed the Council on the Secretary-General’s 90-day report. He told the Council that in a challenging environment, UNMISS had endeavoured to be more robust, nimble and proactive; helped to protect humanitarian facilities, facilitate aid delivery, and evacuate humanitarian personnel; and intervened to protect civilians from abduction, illegal recruitment, sexual violence, and harassment. He added that mission patrols had reached areas where they had long been denied access. IGAD Special Envoy for South Sudan Ismail Wais, also briefed the Council for the first time on 7 December 2017. On 8 December, there was a briefing by the chairs of subsidiary bodies of the Security Council, at which Ambassador Fodé Seck (Senegal) briefed on the work of the South Sudan Sanctions Committee. He highlighted the Panel of Experts’ recommendations that the Council impose a general arms embargo on South Sudan and that the Committee identify those responsible for actions and policies that threaten peace, security and stability in South Sudan. On 14 December, the Council unanimously adopted resolution 2392, extending until 15 March 2018 the provisions of resolution 2327 which renewed UNMISS’s mandate for one year in December 2016. The three-month technical rollover allows for the completion of the strategic review of UNMISS currently underway and for Council members to consider its recommendations. At the initiative of the Secretary-General, a strategic review of UNMISS began in mid-November, one of several comprehensive reviews of peacekeeping operations. Also on 14 December, the Council adopted a presidential statement expressing “strong support” for the High-Level Revitalization Forum (HLRF) organised by IGAD, adding that it “looks forward” to the convening of a fully inclusive forum and substantive progress on the initiative by the end of December 2017. The presidential statement also “underlines that no party should set pre-conditions to participation, and that there must be cost and consequences for those who undermine the HLRF process”. It added that the forum is “a last chance for the parties to achieve sustainable peace and stability”.

November 2017

On 28 November, Assistant Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Bintou Keita briefed the Council on the situation in South Sudan and expressed concern over the real risk of an escalation in violence with the onset of the dry season, and the government’s push to assert military dominance across the country. She also underlined the importance of having unified and unconditional international support to the political process, which will involve “very difficult and arduous discussions”.

October 2017

On 17 October, Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Jean-Pierre Lacroix briefed the Council on the Secretary-General’s confidential 30‑day report on the deployment of the RPF and any obstructions to UNMISS as well as the general situation in the country. Lacroix strongly urge the Council to pronounce itself on the government’s continued violations of the status of forces agreement and restrictions imposed by opposition forces. He also called on the Council to send a strong message to the government and opposition leaders to cooperate with IGAD’s initiative to revitalize the peace process. On the RPF, deployment of Rwandan and Ethiopian battalions was underway, he said.

September 2017

On 26 September, Special Representative Shearer and Joint Monitoring and Evaluation Commission Chairman Festus Mogae (via VTC) briefed the Council. Shearer said while the government appears emboldened by its recent military gains, the humanitarian situation continues to deteriorate, and the central conflict resolution strategy must be political mediation via the IGAD High Level Revitalization Forum.He also emphasised the need for international actors to engage South Sudan with a unity of purpose to support the peace process. Mogae said that little substantial progress had been made in the implementation of key provisions of the August 2015 agreement, and spoke about preparations for the IGAD Revitalization Forum.

August 2017

On 24 August, the Council was briefed by Assistant Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations El-Ghassim Wane, Special Envoy for Sudan and South Sudan Nicholas Haysom, and Joint Monitoring and Evaluation Commission Chairman Festus Mogae. Wane highlighted that enhanced cooperation with the government would be critical for the Regional Protection Force to carry out its mandate. Haysom focused on the current five internal and regional initiatives to restart the political process, none of which have, he said, so far produced a definite breakthrough. Mogae discussed IGAD’s upcoming High Level Revitalization Forum, saying its success requires demonstrable political will by the relevant parties to be inclusive; clear consequences for intransigent groups, spoilers and violators; and commitments by the parties to adhere to revised timelines and implementation schedules. Following closed consultations, Council members issued elements to the press condemning the fighting in Pagak, demanding that the government cease obstructions to UNMISS and the RPF, noting the temporary grounding of UN flights, and reminding all parties that the obstruction of activities of international peacekeeping may be subject to sanctions under resolutions 2206 and 2290.

July 2017

On 20 July, Assistant Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations El Ghassim Wane and Joint Monitoring and Evaluation Commission Chairman Festus Mogae briefed the Council on the situation in South Sudan. Wane spoke about the ongoing fighting in the Upper Nile and Eastern Equatoria regions, and noted with concern that President Kiir continues to replace opposition-aligned members of the nominal Transitional Government of National Unity with his own supporters or those loyal to Vice-President Taban Deng Gai. Mogae reported on his interactions with IGAD and regional leaders and discussed IGAD’s steps to revitalise the political process.

June 2017

On 21 June, the Council was briefed by the Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Jean-Pierre Lacroix and Special Envoy for Sudan and South Sudan Nicholas Haysom. Lacroix emphasised that the current humanitarian crisis in South Sudan was the result of the decision by all parties to continue fighting. He said that unless a ceasefire was implemented and the political process restarted, it would not be possible to hold free, fair, and peaceful elections in 2018. Haysom briefed on recent efforts to restart the political process, including UN support for the 31st Extra-Ordinary IGAD Summit and resulting communiqué.

May 2017

On 5 May, Council members issued a press statement strongly condemning the attack on UNMISS personnel that took place on 3 May in Leer, South Sudan. The Council expressed appreciation of the efforts taken by peacekeepers to repel the attack. On 24 May, the Council was briefed by the Special Representative for the Secretary-General for South Sudan and head of UNMISS, David Shearer, on the Secretary-General’s 30-day assessment of the deployment and future requirements of the RPF, obstacles to setting up the force, and impediments to UNMISS in carrying out its mandate. Shearer noted that initial elements of the RPF have begun to arrive in Juba, including a number of engineers to prepare base locations in advance of the full deployment of the force. Shearer welcomed the government’s declaration of a ceasefire and said there would be close scrutiny on whether it is maintained. Also on 24 May, the Council unanimously adopted resolution 2353 renewing the South Sudan sanctions regime and the mandate for the South Sudan Panel of Experts for an additional year.

April 2017

On 25 April, the Council was briefed on the situation in South Sudan by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for South Sudan and head of UNMISS, David Shearer. This was the first time Shearer had briefed the Council since taking up the post in January. Shearer focused on recent incidents of violence, the deteriorating humanitarian situation, and progress UNMISS has made in strengthening its protection activities.

March 2017

Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs Stephen O’Brien discussed the situation in South Sudan during his 10 March humanitarian briefing of the Council. Referring to his 4-5 March visit to South Sudan, O’Brien said the “situation is worse than it has ever been.” He added that “active hostilities, access denials and bureaucratic impediments continue to curtail…efforts to reach people who…need help”, while “aid workers have been killed” and “humanitarian compounds and supplies have been attacked, looted and occupied by armed actors”. On 23 March, Secretary-General António Guterres, Joint Monitoring and Evaluation Commission Chairman Festus Mogae and Betty Sunday, the Coordinator of the Women’s Monthly Forum on Peace and Political Processes in South Sudan, briefed the Council in a meeting chaired by UK Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs Boris Johnson. A presidential statement was adopted during the meeting in which the Council called on the parties to adhere to a permanent ceasefire and underscored the need for a political solution to the crisis in South Sudan.

February 2017

Secretary-General Guterres briefed Council members in consultations on 3 February on his meetings at the AU Summit, held in late January in Addis Ababa, and spoke at length about South Sudan. He reiterated the points made in the joint UN, AU and IGAD press statement of 29 January that states that the three organisations would work together on the political process. On 10 February, Council members issued a press statement condemning the fighting in South Sudan and stressed the importance of the political process. They further expressed their disappointment that the transitional government of national unity had continued to “act inconsistently with…its obligations under the Status of Forces Agreement with the United Nations.” Council members were briefed in consultations by Assistant Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations El Ghassim Wane and Assistant Secretary-General for Human Rights Andrew Gilmour on 23 February. In elements to the press read out following the meeting, Council members expressed alarm at the declaration of a famine in parts of South Sudan and widespread food insecurity, calling it a direct result of the conflict and the obstruction of humanitarian access. On 24 February, Council members Uruguay, Senegal and Sweden co-hosted an Arria-formula meeting with the heads of the human rights components of UNMISS, the UN Organization Stabilization Mission in the DRC and the UN Assistance Mission in Somalia.

January 2017

On 23 January, Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Hervé Ladsous briefed Council members in consultations on South Sudan. The same day, Council members held an informal interactive dialogue with Festus Mogae, former President of Botswana and the chair of the Joint Monitoring and Evaluation Commission, responsible for overseeing the implementation of the August 2015 South Sudan peace agreement. Ambassador Olof Skoog (Sweden), President of the Council in January, read out elements to the press on behalf of Council members at the stakeout after the meetings. Among other things, members expressed concern about the fighting throughout South Sudan, called on all actors to end hate speech, called on the government to work constructively with the UN on a swift deployment of the RPF and encouraged the engagement of the Secretary-General in a reinvigorated political process.

December 2016

On 9 December, the Council approved the Secretary-General’s appointment of David Shearer of New Zealand as Special Representative for South Sudan and head of UNMISS. On 16 December the Security Council adopted resolution 2327, which reauthorised the mandate of UNMISS, including the Regional Protection Force. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs Stephen O’Brien briefed the Council on South Sudan on 19 December, after which members discussed the issue in consultations. On 23 December, the Council voted on a draft resolution to impose an arms embargo on South Sudan and targeted sanctions (assets freezes and travel bans) on three key government and opposition figures—Paul Malong, Chief of Staff of the Sudan People’s Liberation Army (SPLA) (i.e. the government’s army); Michael Makuei Lueth, South Sudan’s Minister of Information; and opposition leader Riek Machar. The draft resolution failed to be adopted, receiving seven affirmative votes (France, New Zealand, Spain, Ukraine, Uruguay, the UK and the US) and eight abstentions (Angola, China, Egypt, Japan, Malaysia, Russia, Senegal and Venezuela).

November 2016

Council members held consultations on South Sudan on 3 November, during which they were briefed by Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Hervé Ladsous. Ladsous reported on fighting occurring in various parts of the country and the growing incidence of hate speech. On 17 November, the Council held a briefing, followed by consultations, on UNMISS and the situation in South Sudan. UNMISS head and Special Representative of the Secretary-General Ellen Margrethe Løj and Special Adviser Dieng briefed the Council.

October 2016

On 17 October, Council members held consultations on South Sudan, during which they were briefed by Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Hervé Ladsous. Ladsous said that numerous impediments on the operations of UNMISS continued and that progress had not been made in deploying the RPF. Ladsous also said that he was worried about the increasingly inter-ethnic nature of the conflict. During the meeting, the US, the penholder on South Sudan, expressed its willingness to move forward with a draft resolution calling for an arms embargo on South Sudan, while some members stated their preference for giving South Sudan more time to adhere to resolution 2304 and to fulfil commitments made in the joint 4 September communiqué.

September 2016

A Council delegation visited South Sudan and Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, from 1 to 5 September on a mission co-led by Ambassador Samantha Power (US) and Ambassador Fodé Seck (Senegal). While in South Sudan, Council members met with high-level government officials, including President Salva Kiir and First Vice President Taban Deng Gai; civil society representatives; religious leaders; and UNMISS staff. Council members also visited protection of civilians sites in Juba and in Wau, Western Bahr el-Ghazal state, where they met with IDPs. In Addis Ababa, Council members held meetings with President Hailemariam Desalegn of Ethiopia in his capacity as chairman of IGAD and with the AU Peace and Security Council. On 4 September, while in South Sudan, the Council agreed on a joint communiqué with the Transitional Government of National Unity. In the communiqué, the government consented to the deployment of the Regional Protection Force as a part of UNMISS, agreeing that troop-contributing countries, UNMISS and the government would continue to “work through the modalities of deployment”. The government further committed to allow UNMISS freedom of movement in keeping with its mandate and to create by the end of September a plan with UNMISS “on concrete steps to remove impediments on UNMISS’s ability to implement its mandate…”. As for humanitarian access, the communiqué said that the government would provide “assistance in eliminating illegal checkpoints” and review with the UN humanitarian coordinator in South Sudan ways of “strengthening bureaucratic processes and access to populations in need”. On 14 September, Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Hervé Ladsous briefed Council members on UNMISS in consultations. He said that the mission continued to be hampered by freedom of movement restrictions and that the deployment of the Regional Protection Force would largely depend on the cooperation of the government, echoing points made in the Secretary-General’s confidential 8 September letter to the Council. Following the meeting, Ambassador Gerard van Bohemen of New Zealand, Council President in September, read out press elements on behalf of the members. Council members said that they expected the government to implement its commitments regarding the deployment of the Regional Protection Force, freedom of movement of UNMISS and a clear improvement in humanitarian access. On 16 September, the Panel of Experts of the 2206 South Sudan Sanctions Committee briefed the Committee on the Panel’s recent report on security threats facing South Sudan’s transitional government of national unity. The report states that the security threats facing South Sudan are internal in nature, stemming from the actions and policies of the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement/Army and the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement/Army in Opposition. In the report, the panel underscored inter-ethnic violence and impediments to the work of UNMISS and its humanitarian partners as key features of the conflict. The Committee was also briefed by Zainab Bangura, the Special Representative on Sexual Violence in Conflict, on sexual violence in South Sudan.

August 2016

On 11 August, Assistant Secretary-General for Peacekeeping El Ghassim Wane briefed Council members at the request of Russia under “any other business” on the situation in South Sudan. Some members had expected a briefing on operational details regarding the deployment of a regional protection force, but Wane focused his remarks on restrictions imposed on UNMISS and the political situation in the country. The briefing came one day after the Secretary-General sent a letter to the Council outlining the deteriorating security, humanitarian and human rights situation in South Sudan and appealing to the Council to take action to address the impediments faced by UNMISS in conducting its mandate. On 12 August, the Council adopted resolution 2304. In addition to extending the mandate of UNMISS until 15 December, it raised the troop ceiling of the mission to 17,000, including the authorisation of a regional protection force of 4,000 troops for an initial period ending on 15 December. The newly authorised force, which will report to the UNMISS force commander, is to be responsible for “providing a secure environment in and around Juba…and in extremis in other parts of South Sudan as necessary”. It will have a three-fold mandate: to facilitate movement into, out of and around Juba; to protect key facilities in Juba, including the airport; and to “promptly and effectively engage any actor that is…preparing attacks, or engages in attacks, against” UN facilities (including protection-of-civilians sites), UN personnel, humanitarian actors or civilians. On 24 August, under “any other business,” the US proposed the idea of a visiting mission to South Sudan in early September. None of the members objected to the proposal, and most members were favourably inclined to it; some advocated a stop in a neighbouring country to engage with key officials in the region.

July 2016

On 1 July, Council members issued a press statement expressing deep alarm at the fighting in Wau, South Sudan. On the evening of 9 July, Council members issued a press statement in which they condemned the fighting in Juba on 7-8 July and urged the transitional government to take steps to end the fighting and reduce tensions. On Sunday, 10 July, members held emergency consultations, called for by the US, the penholder on South Sudan, during which they were briefed by Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Hervé Ladsous. An arms embargo, additional targeted sanctions and the reinforcement of UNMISS were among the potential options discussed by Ladsous and members to respond to the situation. Later that evening, Council members issued another press statement condemning the escalation of fighting in Juba. In the statement, members “expressed their readiness to consider enhancing UNMISS to better ensure that UNMISS and the international community can prevent and respond to violence in South Sudan,” while encouraging “states in the region to prepare to provide additional troops in the event the Council so decides”. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon discussed the situation with Council members on 12 July during the monthly lunch, and on 13 July, the Council received another briefing on South Sudan from Ladsous, followed by consultations.

June 2016

On 22 June, Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Hervé Ladsous, Under-Secretary-General for Field Support Atul Khare and Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs Stephen O’Brien briefed Council members in consultations on the POC sites in South Sudan. Special Representative of the Secretary-General and UNMISS head Ellen Margrethe Løj was available via video teleconference to answer questions. The discussion focused on three confidential documents that were submitted to Council members in June: a lessons-learned report on the POC sites, the initial findings of the special investigation ordered by the Secretary-General to ascertain responsibilities for the violence at the Malakal POC site on 17-18 February and a document summarising the main recommendations of the Board of Inquiry report on the same incident. At the stakeout following the meeting, Ladsous said that “a unit and…individual officers” who had not performed adequately during the Malakal incident would be repatriated, although he did not specify the nationality of the peacekeepers. Council members received a briefing on 30 June under “any other business” from the Department of Peacekeeping Operations focusing on the situation in the newly formed Wau state. Thousands of people were displaced as a result of clashes in Wau on 24-25 June, between Dinka and Fertit ethnic groups. Men in SPLA uniforms reportedly supported the Dinka fighters.

May 2016

On 4 May, Council members issued a press statement welcoming the formation of the transitional government of national unity. The statement further underscored the importance of the transitional government in implementing the August 2015 peace agreement. At press time, members were negotiating a resolution to renew the mandate of the 2206 South Sudan sanctions regime.

April 2016

The Council adopted a technical rollover resolution on 7 April that renewed the mandate of the South Sudan sanctions regime for an additional seven weeks until 1 June. A presidential statement was adopted in conjunction with the resolution, indicating the Council’s intention to assess progress by 30 April on steps taken by the parties as outlined by the Council in its 17 March presidential statement. Those steps involve the implementation of the August 2015 peace agreement and a proposal for a national boundary commission to review the number of states in South Sudan and their boundaries, among other issues. On 19 April, Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Hervé Ladsous briefed Council members in consultations on the postponement of Machar’s return to Juba. Following the meeting, China in its capacity as Council president delivered elements to the press in which members expressed serious concern with the delay in Machar’s return to Juba and called for the transitional government of national unity to be formed quickly. The Council held a briefing, followed by consultations, on UNMISS and the situation in South Sudan on 26 April. During the briefing, Ladsous said that Machar’s return to Juba was a positive development, but cautioned that political and security trends needed to change for peace to take hold. Following the meeting, Council members again issued elements to the press urging the parties to quickly form the transitional government.

March 2016

On 2 March, the Council adopted a technical rollover resolution renewing the South Sudan sanctions regime for an additional six weeks until 15 April and the mandate of the Panel of Experts for 10 weeks until 15 May. The Council adopted a presidential statement on South Sudan on 17 March. The statement expressed deep concern that the parties have not fully adhered to their commitments to implement the August peace agreement. It stated that the Council will review progress by 31 March on five steps: adhering to the permanent ceasefire; completing the implementation of security arrangements for Juba; filling the positions of president, first vice president and vice president in the transitional government of national unity; abiding by and taking no action inconsistent with the January 2016 communiqué of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development, which urged an inclusive national boundary commission to review the proposal to increase the number of states and their boundaries; and protecting civilians and civilian facilities, while allowing for full, safe and unhindered humanitarian access. On 31 March, the Council met to discuss developments with regard to South Sudan since its 17 March presidential statement. The meeting was followed by consultations. Briefers included Festus Mogae, the Chairperson of the Joint Monitoring and Evaluation Commission; Ellen Margrethe Løj, the Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Head of UN Mission in South Sudan, via VTC; Stephen O’Brien, the Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator; and Kate Gilmour, UN Deputy High Commissioner for Human Rights.

February 2016

On 19 February, the Council held a briefing, followed by consultations, on the situation in South Sudan and on UNMISS, as well as on the work of the 2206 South Sudan Sanctions Committee). The meeting included a discussion of the most recent UNMISS report and the final report of the Committee’s Panel of Experts. Regarding the situation in South Sudan and UNMISS, briefings by video teleconference were made by Deputy Special Representative Moustapha Soumaré; Chairman of the Joint Monitoring and Evaluation Committee Festus Mogae; and Assistant Secretary-General for Human Rights Ivan Šimonovic. Ambassador Fodé Seck (Senegal), the Chair of the 2206 South Sudan Sanctions Committee, briefed on the Sanctions Committee’s work. Also on 19 February, Council members issued a press statement condemning the violence in the Malakal protection of civilians site that resulted in the deaths of 18 people.

January 2016

On 14 January, the Panel of Experts of the 2206 South Sudan Sanctions Committee briefed the Committee on its final report.

November 2015

Council members met on 4 November to discuss the security situation in South Sudan in consultations. Special Representative of the Secretary-General for South Sudan and head of UNMISS Ellen Margrethe Løj and Assistant Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Edmond Mulet spoke during the meeting. Briefing via video teleconference, Løj said that there had been some positive steps regarding implementation of the peace agreement, referring to the 3 November agreement on transitional security arrangements between the SPLA and the SPLA in Opposition and the fact that Ugandan forces had nearly completed their withdrawal from South Sudan. At the same time, she expressed concern about the deteriorating humanitarian situation in Unity State. Løj spoke about the 26 October seizure of the barge in Unity State and the detention of UN staff on the barge. Mulet said that to enhance the mission’s ability to protect itself, 212 military liaison officers would gradually assume positions as military observers, and argued that the deployment of unarmed, unmanned aerial vehicles would help contribute to the protection of mission personnel.

October 2015

On 9 October, the Council adopted resolution 2241, adjusting the mandate of UNMISS to support implementation of the “Agreement on the Resolution of the Conflict in the Republic of South Sudan” (S/PV.7532). The vote was 13 in favour with two abstentions from Russia and Venezuela.

September 2015

On 4 September, Council members received a briefing in consultations from Special Representative and head of UNMISS Ellen Margrethe Løj on the situation in South Sudan following the signing in August of the “Agreement on the Resolution of the Conflict in the Republic of South Sudan.” In elements to the press following the meeting, Council members “expressed deep concern at the recent reports of fighting and called upon the parties to adhere to the permanent cease-fire immediately and unconditionally.” A US proposal, jointly sponsored by France and the UK, to impose targeted sanctions on Paul Malong Awan, chief of the Sudan People’s Liberation Army (SPLA), and Johnson Olonyi, an SPLA in Opposition general, was put on hold by Angola, China, Russia and Venezuela prior to the 15 September expiry of a no-objection period. At press time, Council members were negotiating a US draft resolution to enhance the mandate of UNMISS by authorising it to support the implementation of the August peace agreement.

August 2015

UN Deputy Secretary-General Jan Eliasson briefed Council members during “any other business” on 19 August. Eliasson, who had been in Addis Ababa during the South Sudan negotiations, stated that the international community needed to apply strong diplomatic pressure on South Sudanese President Salva Kiir to sign the peace agreement (i.e., “Agreement on the Resolution of the Conflict in the Republic of South Sudan”), which had been signed by the SPLM/A-IO on 17 August. Although he expressed reservations regarding parts of the agreement, Kiir signed on 26 August. On 27 August, the Council adopted a presidential statement welcoming the signing of the agreement.

July 2015

On 1 July, the 2206 South Sudan Sanctions Committee imposed sanctions (travel bans and assets freezes) on six military figures, including three affiliated with the SPLA and three affiliated with the SPLA in Opposition. The designated individuals are Gabriel Jok Riak (SPLA Lieutenant General); Simon Gatwech Dual (SPLA in Opposition Major General); James Kuong Chuol (SPLA in Opposition Major General); Santino Deng Wol (SPLA Major General); Marial Chanuong Yol Mangok (SPLA Major General and commander of President Salva Kiir’s special guard); and Peter Gadet (SPLA in Opposition Major General). The designations—proposed by the US and jointly sponsored by France and the UK—are the first ones made under the sanctions regime established in resolution 2206 of 3 March. On 8 July, Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Hervé Ladsous and UNICEF Deputy Executive Director Yoka Brandt briefed Council members under “any other business” on the human rights situation in South Sudan. On 9 July, Council members issued a press statement on South Sudan in which they condemned violations of human rights and international humanitarian law committed in Unity and Upper Nile states in April and May.

June 2015

On 3 June, Council members issued a press statement expressing concern with the decision of the government of South Sudan on 29 May to expel Toby Lanzer, the UN Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General/Resident Coordinator/Humanitarian Coordinator for UNMISS (SC/11916). In the statement, Council members “condemned in the strongest terms the repeated violations of the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement.”

May 2015

On 12 May, at the request of the US, Council members held consultations regarding options for accountability and transitional justice in South Sudan. Under-Secretary-General for Legal Affairs and UN Legal Counsel Miguel de Serpa Soares briefed along with Assistant Secretary-General for Human Rights Ivan Šiminović. On 14 May, Special Representative Ellen Margrethe Løj presented the most recent UNMISS report and Ambassador Carlos Olguín Cigarroa (Chile), representative of the chair of the 2206 South Sudan Sanctions Committee, briefed the Council. On 17 May, Council members issued a press statement condemning renewed large-scale violence in Unity state caused by a recent offensive by the government of South Sudan (SC/11897). On 28 May, the Council adopted resolution 2223 renewing the mandate of UNMISS for six months.

March 2015

The Council adopted resolution 2206 on 3 March creating a sanctions regime for South Sudan (S/PV.7396). On 18 March, Haile Menkerios, Special Envoy for Sudan and South Sudan and Special Representative to the AU, briefed Council members in consultations, telling them that hardliners on both sides of the South Sudan conflict were committed to a military solution. On 24 March, the Council held a meeting to adopt a presidential statement that reiterated the intent to impose sanctions, including an arms embargo or targeted measures against senior figures who have threatened South Sudan’s peace, security and stability.

February 2015

On 24 February, the Council was briefed on the situation in South Sudan by Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Hervé Ladsous and Assistant Secretary-General for Human Rights Ivan Šimonović. Ladsous highlighted the main findings of the Secretary-General’s report on UNMISS (S/2015/118), while Šimonović discussed his visit to the country in early February. In the consultations that followed the briefing, a draft resolution was circulated to members calling for the establishment of a sanctions regime on South Sudan.

December 2014

On 15 December 2014, the Council adopted a presidential statement marking the one year anniversary of the outbreak of hostilities in South Sudan (S/PRST/2014/26). In the statement, the Council urgently demanded that the parties end the fighting and maintain their commitment to create a transitional government of national unity. The Council also reiterated “its intention to commence consideration, in consultation with relevant partners, including the IGAD and AU, on all appropriate measures, including targeted sanctions, against those impeding the peace process.”

November 2014

On 4 November, Special Representative Ellen Margrethe Løj briefed Council members in consultations, via video-teleconference from Juba, on the latest report of the Secretary-General on UNMISS (S/2014/821). UNMISS Force Commander Yohannes Gebremeskel Tesfamariam also participated via video-teleconference. Løj gave a grim assessment of the security situation, referring specifically to the fighting in the Bentiu area, and the security and humanitarian challenges in the UNMISS camps for internally displaced persons. Council members issued a press statement on 5 November (SC/11631) expressing “alarm and outrage” at the resumption of fighting in Unity and Upper Nile states. In the statement, Council members also “confirmed their intention to commence negotiations, in consultation with relevant partners, including the Intergovernmental Authority for Development and the African Union, on all appropriate measures, including targeted sanctions against those impeding the peace process.” On 25 November, the Council adopted resolution 2187 renewing the mandate of UNMISS for an additional six months. Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Hervé Ladsous also briefed Council members under “another other business” the same day on the mission’s efforts to address the security situation in South Sudan.

October 2014

On 22 October, Ellen Margrethe Løj, the Special Representative and head of UNMISS, briefed the Council on the situation in South Sudan and the current UNMISS report. Zainab Hawa Bangura, the Special Representative on Sexual Violence in Conflict, who visited South Sudan from 5 to 11 October, briefed as well, participating via video-teleconference from Geneva (S/PV.7282). Løj said that since she had assumed her post, she had been “shocked by the complete disregard for human life” in the conflict, emphasising that the perpetrators of human rights violations must be held accountable. Bangura reiterated many of the points from her 20 October press briefing at UN headquarters in New York, arguing that sexual violence in South Sudan is widespread and that the government lacks the capacity to address the challenge. Francis Deng, South Sudan’s ambassador to the UN, addressed the Council as well, urging the Council to support capacity-building with regard to South Sudan’s institutions, notably the police and other related security elements. In consultations following the briefing, Løj emphasised her concern at the lack of progress on the political track, while Bangura similarly said that the best way to curtail the sexual violence in South Sudan is to bring an end to the fighting.

August 2014

The Council held a briefing followed by consultations on South Sudan on 6 August. Assistant Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Edmond Mulet briefed on the recent UNMISS report and events that have transpired in the country since the report’s publication on 25 July. Ambassador Joseph Moum Malok, the Deputy Permanent Representative of South Sudan, addressed the Council after Mulet. Also on 6 August, the Council issued a press statement condemning attacks that led to the deaths of at least six humanitarian workers in Upper Nile state. The Council adopted a presidential statement on 8 August in which it expressed concern at the political, security and humanitarian situation in South Sudan and expressed “its readiness to consider, in consultation with relevant partners, including IGAD and the African Union, all appropriate measures, including targeted sanctions, against those who take action that undermines the peace, stability, and security of South Sudan”. On 27 August, Council members issued a press statement condemning the downing of an UNMISS helicopter near Bentiu in Unity State.

July 2014

The Council issued two press statements on 25 July. One welcomed the appointment of Ellen Margrethe Løj as Special Representative of the Secretary-General and head of UNMISS on 23 July (Hilde Johnson stepped down on 8 July), condemned the fighting in Nasir, and urged the parties to cease hostilities and resume peace talks (SC/11492). The other statement expressed grave concern with food insecurity in South Sudan, and urged UN member states to fulfil pledges for humanitarian support made at the Oslo Conference in May and increase their commitments to South Sudan and the region (SC/11493).

June 2014

On 27 June, the Council held an informal interactive dialogue with Seyoum Mesfim, the chief mediator of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD)-facilitated South Sudan peace talks in Addis Ababa. The informal interactive dialogue was used as Mesfin is not a UN official, and given the format, the meeting was private and off the record.

May 2014

On 2 May, High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay and the Secretary-General’s Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide, Adama Dieng briefed the Council on their trip to the country from 28-30 April (S/PV.7168). Pillay argued that the parties were engaged in a power struggle and had exhibited “little or no regard for the appalling suffering” that the conflict had caused, while Dieng reported that the conflict demonstrated “elements…of risk factors for genocide and other atrocity crimes”. On 8 May, Council members received a briefing in consultations on South Sudan from Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Hervé Ladsous and Military Adviser Lieutenant General Ahmed Maqsood from the Office of Military Affairs in the Department of Peacekeeping Operations. Special Representative of the Secretary-General for South Sudan and head of UNMISS, Hilde Johnson, was also available (via video-teleconference) to respond to questions. Ladsous described efforts on the diplomatic track to resolve the conflict while Maqsood briefed on the status of the deployment of forces through inter-mission cooperation. Johnson drew attention to the UNMISS human rights report, circulated to Council members earlier in the day. On 12 May, the Council held a public briefing, followed by consultations, on South Sudan (S/PV.7172). Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon briefed the Council on his 6 May visit to the country. Ban warned that “if the conflict continues, half of South Sudan’s 12 million people will either be displaced internally, refugees abroad, starving or dead by the year’s end”. He outlined five priorities: an end to the fighting; a commitment by the parties to allow humanitarian access; international support for humanitarian efforts; justice and accountability, including consideration of a hybrid tribunal; and inclusive nation-building with the participation of all political leaders and civil society. On 27 May, the Council adopted resolution 2155 on UNMISS. The resolution streamlines the UNMISS mandate so that it focuses on four key tasks: protection of civilians; monitoring and investigating human rights; creating enabling conditions for the delivery of humanitarian assistance; and supporting the implementation of the cessation of hostilities agreement.

April 2014

On 10 April, Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Hervé Ladsous briefed the Council in consultations on UNMISS. Ladsous said that the Department of Peacekeeping Operations was in discussions with the Intergovernmental Authority on Development regarding options for collaboration between the IGAD Protection and Deterrence Force and UNMISS. The Council issued a press statement on 18 April expressing outrage at the attacks on civilians in Bentiu and on the UN base in Bor (SC/11359). It further underscored that “attacks on civilians and United Nations peacekeepers may constitute a war crime”. On 23 April, the Council was briefed again in consultations on the situation in South Sudan by Ladsous and Assistant Secretary-General for Human Rights Ivan Šimonović. The briefing focused on recent developments in Bor and Bentiu. On the following day, the Council issued a press statement in which it “expressed horror and anger at the mass violence in Bentiu” and reiterated its strong condemnation of the attack in Bor against the UNMISS base (SC/11363). The statement also requested the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights to launch an investigation on the events in Bentiu, while requesting Simonovic to return to South Sudan “as soon as possible to assess recent developments and report back to the Security Council.”

March 2014

Council members discussed the Secretary-General’s most recent report (S/2014/158) on UNMISS in a briefing and consultations on 18 March (S/PV.7141). The report identifies five priority tasks for UNMISS: protecting civilians, enabling humanitarian access, increasing human rights monitoring and reporting, facilitating inter-communal and national dialogue and supporting mediation and ceasefire monitoring by IGAD.

February 2014

The Council discussed South Sudan on 11 February, when members were briefed in consultations by Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Hervé Ladsous, Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator Valerie Amos and Special Representative of the Secretary-General and head of UNMISS Hilde Johnson (via videoconference from Juba). Among other subjects, Amos and Ladsous also shared insights from their recent trips to South Sudan, on 27-29 January and 2-3 February respectively. Two days after the briefing in consultations, a press statement on the situation in South Sudan was issued (SC/11278). On 21 February, Council members received an interim report on the human rights situation in South Sudan issued by the Human Rights Division of UNMISS. The report covers events during the first six weeks since the outbreak of hostilities, from 15 December 2013 through 31 January 2014. The report summarises human rights violations in the Central Equatoria, Jonglei, Unity and Upper Nile states, including the deliberate targeting of civilians in extrajudicial killings and mass killings, enforced disappearances, gender-based violence and torture committed by forces from both sides of the conflict. The report also notes that many civilians were deliberately targeted and killed along ethnic lines, while many more civilians have been forcibly displaced.

January 2014

On 9 January, members of the Security Council were briefed by Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations Hervé Ladsous, Special Representative of the Secretary-General and head of UNMISS Hilde Johnson and Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for Sudan and South Sudan Haile Menkerios on the situation in Sudan and South Sudan. The Council issued a press statement (SC/11244) the following day reiterating their strong support for the mediation efforts led by IGAD and demanding the end to human rights violations. On 23 January, Council members issued another press statement (SC/11261) following consultations on South Sudan welcoming the cessation of hostilities, condemning violations of the Status of Forces Agreement by South Sudan and welcoming the decision by the AU Peace and Security Council to establish a commission to investigate human rights violations during the conflict.

December 2013

On 16 December, South Sudanese President Salva Kiir alleged a coup attempt by forces loyal to former Vice-President Riek Machar. Council members were briefed on this development under “any other business” on 17 December. Council members held further consultations on 20, 23 and 30 December to be updated on the escalating crisis as well as to discuss plans to augment the capacity of the peacekeeping mission. The Council issued several press statements (SC/11221, SC/11227 and SC/11236) condemning the fighting, calling for dialogue and a cessation of hostilities. It adopted resolution 2132 on 24 December increasing the military and police capacity of UNMISS. On 26 December, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs estimated that about 63,000 people had sought protection at UN bases across the country among the more than 121,000 displaced in fighting that had spread to five of South Sudan’s 10 states.

November 2013

Council members were briefed on UNMISS on 18 November by Special Representative of the Secretary-General and head of UNMISS Hilde Johnson. In presenting the most recent UNMISS report of the Secretary-General, Johnson said that while great challenges remain, recent events “give reason for cautious optimism” regarding South Sudan’s future. The briefing was followed by consultations.

July 2013

On 8 July, the Council held a briefing and consultations on the most recent report on UNMISS. Hilde Johnson, Special Representative of the Secretary-General and head of UNMISS, provided the briefing. On 11 July, the Council adopted resolution 2109, extending the mandate of UNMISS until 15 July 2014.

April 2013

On 9 April, Council members issued a press statement condemning the attacks on UNMISS peacekeepers.

March 2013

On 21 March, Special Representative Hilde Johnson briefed the Council on the recent UNMISS report and said “South Sudan’s transition towards a stable, viable state continued at an uneven pace”.

February 2013

During the 12 February open debate on the protection of civilians, Navi Pillay, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, said that the expulsion in November 2012 of an UNMISS human rights officer had set “a dangerous precedent” and once again urged South Sudan to reconsider its decision.

December 2012

On 21 December, the Council issued a press statement strongly deploring an incident occurring the same day in which the Sudan People’s Liberation Army shot down a UNMISS helicopter, killing all four crew on board.

November 2012

On 28 November, the Council discussed the report of the Secretary-General on UNMISS in consultations. Hervé Ladsous, Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations, and Hilde Johnson, Special Representative of the Secretary-General on South Sudan, participated in the meeting. Council members expressed concern in the consultations with the recent decision of the South Sudanese government to expel an UNMISS human rights officer.

July 2012

On 5 July 2012, the Council adopted resolution 2057 renewing the UNMISS mandate until July 2013. On 3 July, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights briefed Council members in consultations. She commended the efforts of the Juba-based government with respect to DDR but also noted that sporadic human rights violations by South Sudanese soldiers had been reported during the disarmament process in Jonglei state.

April 2012

On 24 April the Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations and the Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Head of UNMISS briefed Council members during consultations.

January 2012

The Council issued a press statement on 9 January in which it expressed deep concern at the inter-communal between the Lou Nuer and Murle groups in Jonglei state in South Sudan and called for an end to violence through reconciliation. On 5 January, the Under-Secretary-General for Peackeeping Operations briefed the Council in consultations on the violence in Jonglei.

November 2011

On 15 November the Council held a briefing followed by closed consultations on the Secretary-General’s November 2011 report on UNMISS. On 9 November, addressing the Council as part of an open debate on the Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict, the High Commissioner for Human Rights reported that violent clashes in South Sudan between heavily armed communities and a resurgence of armed activity by rebel factions were undermining the nation’s stability and posed a serious threat to civilians.

August 2011

On 26 August South Sudan President Salva Kiir announced the appointment of a new 29-member cabinet. On 8 August, the Council held consultations on Sudan and was briefed by the Head of DPKO on the UNMISS and UNISFA deployments.

July 2011

The General Assembly admitted South Sudan as as the UN’s 193rd member on 14 July, after the Council recommended to the General Assembly that South Sudan be admitted as a member. (The Republic of South Sudan became an independent state on 9 July.) On 11 July the Council adopted resolution 1997 deciding that UN Mission in Sudan (UNMIS) would withdraw by the end of August. On 8 July the Council adopted resolution 1996 which established the UN Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS) to take effect upon the independence of South Sudan.

-----------------------------------

Timeline: South Sudan 2011-2020 Independence and Civil WarJuly 2011: After six years of autonomy and two decades of war, South Sudan formally declares independence from Sudan.

A referendum had returned a 99 per cent vote in favour of secession.

Salva Kiir becomes president; Riek Machar is his deputy. The two men have a rivalry but are also both leaders in the Sudan People’s Liberation Movement (SPLM) that led the movement to secede from Sudan.

South Sudan takes over three-quarters of the oil reserves in Sudan. Sudan retains control of pipeline and export facilities.

Other potential flashpoint issues include the location of the common border and the status of disputed regions including Abyei.

March 2012: Clashes begin and last for two months over rights to the oilfields around Heglig, a town just inside the Sudanese border. South Sudanese troops briefly occupy the area, which is responsible for half of Sudan’s crude oil production.

The two countries dispute pipeline transit costs and Sudan confiscates millions of barrels of South Sudanese crude. In January 2013 South Sudan halts its production for more than a year and accuses Khartoum of theft.

2013: South Sudan descends into a devastating civil war. Hundreds of thousands of people die, millions are forcibly displaced and parts of the country fall into famine.

July 2013: Kiir fires his deputy Machar and all government ministers, their deputies and several police brigadiers. Machar accuses Kiir of “dictatorial” behaviour.

In December Kiir claims his forces thwarted an attempted coup by Machar.

Rival army units clash in the capital Juba. The fighting spreads, fuelled by rivalries between Kiir’s majority Dinka ethnic group and Machar’s Nuer, the country’s second-largest ethnic group.

In a worsening civil war, atrocities include ethnic massacres, widespread rape and the use of child soldiers.

August 2015: Machar and Kiir sign a peace accord; Machar is reappointed vice president.

2016: Fighting between supporters of both leaders breaks out in July. Machar goes into exile, accusing Kiir of trying to have him killed.

September 2018: The former partners sign a new peace agreement to end five years of war that killed more than 380,000 and forcibly displaced four million.

A power-sharing government is slated for May 2019, with Machar again as the vice president. But the deadline is repeatedly delayed due to disputes over state boundaries, a unified national army and protection for Machar.

2020: Machar is sworn in as the first vice president in a power-sharing government. But on the ground, South Sudan remained perilously fragile. Rival forces needed to be unified in a single national army; corruption was said to be rampant, armed militias retained significant power and civilians deliberately starved, with more than half of the 12-million strong population facing food shortages.

-----------------------------------

U.S. Agency for International DevelopmentThe site is secure.

A lock () or https:// ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely.

-----------------------------------

A Timeline of Brookings Expert Commentary on South SudanSouth Sudan, independent from Sudan for just over two years, has been embroiled in a developing conflict between opposing forces that may be heading toward civil war. On December 15, fighting erupted between forces loyal to President Salva Kiir, an ethnic Dinka, and the former vice president, Riek Machar, whom Kiir sacked in July. Machar is an ethnic Nuer, highlighting the tribal component of the escalating conflict.

Brookings experts, many from Africa Growth Initiative (AGI), have been following developments in South Sudan since its independence in 2011. Highlights of that commentary include:

After many years of brutal civil war, South Sudan emerged with extremely poor infrastructure and a population with limited human capital. More importantly, the country was born with weak institutions that were not suited to the delivery of sustainable economic growth and development. Finally, while the people of South Sudan were largely united in the war against Khartoum, the country is to a large degree ethnically fragmented, with each group seeking to maximize its own objectives—a process that has significantly weakened the ability of the government to work toward national integration.

Watch Witney Schneidman’s 2012 interview with Peter Biar Ajak , one of Sudan’s “Lost Boys” who endured years of violence and displacement as he made his way to the United States. Ajak founded the Centre for Strategic Analyses and Research.

, one of Sudan’s “Lost Boys” who endured years of violence and displacement as he made his way to the United States. Ajak founded the Centre for Strategic Analyses and Research. In June 2012, AGI hosted an event on the opportunities and obstacles for South Sudan at its one-year anniversary . Panelists included: Ambassador Princeton Lyman, U.S. special envoy to South Sudan and Sudan; AGI Nonresident Senior Fellow John Mukum Mbaku; John Prendergast, co-founder of the Enough Project; Peter Ajak, founder of the Centre for Strategic Analyses and Research in Juba; and Professor Nada Mustafa Ali, faculty member at the New School for Social Research. AGI Director Mwangi Kimenyi provided introductory remarks and moderated the discussion.

. Panelists included: Ambassador Princeton Lyman, U.S. special envoy to South Sudan and Sudan; AGI Nonresident Senior Fellow John Mukum Mbaku; John Prendergast, co-founder of the Enough Project; Peter Ajak, founder of the Centre for Strategic Analyses and Research in Juba; and Professor Nada Mustafa Ali, faculty member at the New School for Social Research. AGI Director Mwangi Kimenyi provided introductory remarks and moderated the discussion. In February 2013, Mbaku wrote:

The failure of South Sudanese citizens to engage in democratic institutional reforms to provide themselves with institutional arrangements that guarantee the rule of law has left the government unable to effectively manage ethnic and religious diversity, minimize corruption and public financial malfeasance, and provide the enabling environment for the creation of the wealth that can be used to fight poverty and enhance human development. … South Sudan will remain in its underdevelopment trap until such a time that it provides itself, through democratic (i.e., bottom-up, people-driven, participatory and inclusive) constitution-making, with institutional arrangements that guarantee the rule of law. For, without a set of laws and institutions that adequately constrains civil servants and politicians, the latter will continue to consider themselves above the law and behave with impunity.

Writing five months later at South Sudan’s second anniversary, Mbaku, again spoke to many of these issues, and again emphasized corruption in the public sector: “These problems and challenges,” he wrote,

are symptoms or manifestations of poorly developed laws and institutions. In fact, without a set of institutional arrangements that adequately constrain civil servants and politicians, the latter will continue to engage in growth-inhibiting behaviors, such as corruption and rent seeking, and derail the country’s development plans. Hence, the most important task for South Sudan as it celebrates its second anniversary of independence is state reconstruction through democratic constitution making to provide laws and institutions that guarantee the rule of law. Until this is done, the country will be unable to deal effectively and fully with the various problems that keep it poor and highly deprived.

In August, after President Kiir sacked his cabinet and Vice President Machar, AGI Director Kimenyi and Guest Scholar Josephine Kibe wrote that “Sudan appears headed in the wrong direction.” They wrote that “such actions illustrate,”

a high concentration of power at the executive level and can have dire consequences for the country. The perception of abuse of power, whether real or not, can lead to dissent among citizens—history in similar situations has shown that this perception can result in a military coup, particularly when the Sudanese people feel that they are not inclusively represented in government (as is the case right now). Unless there is real change in the organs of governance and in particular institutions for consensual decision making, the likelihood of escalated ethnic conflict, or even military intervention, in the near future is not far-fetched.

In November, the Brookings-LSE Project on Internal Displacement held a roundtable discussion to address solutions to the crisis of internal displacement in South Sudan . Tens of thousands of refugees in such countries as Ethiopia and Kenya returned to South Sudan in its lead-up to independence, and thousands more have been displaced internally by continued armed conflict and human-rights violations. Chaloka Beyani, IDP co-director and the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the human rights of internally displaced persons, said that “Development and peace can hardly be achieved when thousands of South Sudanese remain uprooted.”

held a . Tens of thousands of refugees in such countries as Ethiopia and Kenya returned to South Sudan in its lead-up to independence, and thousands more have been displaced internally by continued armed conflict and human-rights violations. Chaloka Beyani, IDP co-director and the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the human rights of internally displaced persons, said that “Development and peace can hardly be achieved when thousands of South Sudanese remain uprooted.” Finally, last week, just after the attempted coup in South Sudan’s capital, Kibe and Kimenyi pointed again to the “high concentration of power around the presidency and the general weakness of the country’s institutions” as contributing factors to the violence. They wrote of the underlying causes of the instability and potential consequences.

The recent coup attempt is a testimony of the inability of the leaders in SPLM to maintain unity. The country is run on patronage politics where the dominant figures, President Kiir and Machar, represent interests of the two largest ethnic tribes, the Dinka and Nuer, respectively. The legitimacy of the state can only be achieved if it provides essential services such as education, health and security to the citizens and, as it stands now, the country’s attention is not on providing these services. There is an urgent need for the government to act quickly to avert the threat of a civil war and instability in the country. International organizations and partners must insist on the country developing participatory institutions and broadening the political field. This can be done by encouraging civil society groups, providing assistance aimed at enhancing the legislative space, and targeting foreign aid and assistance towards the promotion of democracy. The opportunity cost of instability is too high for this very young country.

Follow all developments in South Sudan on AGI’s Africa in Focus blog and on the Brookings Sudan and South Sudan research topic page.

-----------------------------------

The Enough ProjectSouth Sudan gained independence in 2011 after a referendum in which its people voted overwhelmingly to secede from Sudan. Independence was the culmination of a long armed struggle waged by South Sudanese starting in the mid 1950s. There are two phases of the armed struggle. The first one started in 1955 and lasted until 1972. The Addis Ababa Agreement of 1972, which ended the first phase of the armed struggle, granted self-government to the South Sudanese within the Sudanese state. Relative peace returned to the South during this period. However, in 1983, the second phase of the conflict was launched when two predominantly South Sudanese battalions of the Sudanese army mutinied in the towns of Bor and Ayod.

These two battalions formed the nucleus of the Sudan People’s Liberation Army/Movement. Initially, the SPLM sought to redefine the political landscape in Sudan by calling for the establishment of a “New Sudan” that was secular and democratic in outlook. Although its political base was in the southern part of the country, the SPLM sought to build a mass movement across Sudan to achieve its objective of a “New Sudan.” To this end, the SPLM extended its presence into Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile, two areas considered part of Northern Sudan. An attempt to establish a foothold in Darfur in the early 1990s was thwarted by the Sudanese army.

In 1994, the SPLM embraced the concept of self-determination for South Sudan, three years after it suffered a major ideological split within its ranks. In subsequent talks with the Sudanese government, self-determination was included in the agenda for peace negotiations. Finally, in 2005, both sides in the Sudanese conflict reached a peace deal under the auspices of a regional body called the Inter-Governmental Authority on Development (IGAD). Although the agreement recognized the right of self-determination for South Sudanese, it also prioritized the unity of Sudan. In that respect, it stipulated autonomy for South Sudan for a period of five years in order to give South Sudanese and their Northern Sudanese counterparts a chance to be united as one country.

-----------------------------------

South Sudan: the conflict in focusHistory of the conflict in South Sudan

South Sudan may be the world’s youngest country, but the region has a long history of conflict – and of peace.

South Sudan gained independence in July 2011, after over 20 years of civil war. The optimism that greeted the country’s birth was shattered in 2013 when political disagreement within the ruling Sudan People’s Liberation Army (SPLA) plunged the country into conflict. The internal power struggle triggered political, inter-ethnic and inter-communal violence.

The violence is widespread, reaching almost every state in the country. The maginalisation of different groups, ethnic rivalries, and poor governance are all factors which continue to drive conflict, and misinformation about ethnically motivated attacks and counter-attacks reinforce distrust.

Numerous attempts have been made to broker peace. In June 2018, mounting international pressure on the South Sudanese government resulted in a ceasefire and the signing of a power-sharing agreement between opposing political groups. A lack of political will to progress the implementation of the agreement has led to delays, but the step towards peace has infused new life and hope among South Sudanese communities.

Our work in South Sudan

The conflict in South Sudan has displaced more than 3.9 million people, and Uganda alone is hosting more than one million South Sudanese refugees – the majority of them women and children.

So far, displaced women have been excluded from efforts to build peace - both in South Sudan, and within the refugee camps where ethnic polarisation and stereotyping continue to cause conflicts.

However, their experiences mean they can and should play an important role in peacebuilding. Alongside a network of women’s grassroots organisations, we’re training internally displaced and refugee women in how to analyse and resolve conflict, and to build relationships and networks to influence policy at a local, state and national level.



Image: A former market in Unity State South Sudan. Credit: Robert Oxley/ DFID

-----------------------------------

Six months of war in Sudan: A timelineOctober marks six months since the conflict in Sudan began in Khartoum and quickly spread throughout the country. Since then, much of the country has been gripped by armed conflict, including devastating attacks on civilians and residential areas, which have forced more than 5 million people to flee their homes while others remain trapped by the fighting. Hospitals are stretched to capacity, medical supplies are low, and in many parts of the country, humanitarian aid has come to a halt.



Doctors Without Borders/Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) teams have been on the ground in Sudan providing medical care and donating supplies. We're also working neighboring countries like Chad, Central African Republic, and South Sudan, where millions of Sudanese refugees have fled over the last six months. Here are some of the key moments we have witnessed in this ongoing conflict.



April

-----------------------------------

